VILLAGE OF FRANKFORT, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-31 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 3485, passed 12-16-24; and
State legislation current through
Illinois Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No. 5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Frankfort shall be designated as
the Code of the Village of Frankfort and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of
Frankfort.
   COUNTY. Will County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Will County, Illinois. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act
70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections. (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   FISCAL YEAR. Budget year of May 1 through April 30 of each year.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. Village President.
   MONTH. A calendar month. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL or MUNICIPALITY.  The Village of Frankfort, Illinois.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70,
§ 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any record fee title owner, part
owner, joint owner, purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of the property, and includes any
beneficiary of a land trust which owns property.
   PARKWAY. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals. (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the village.
POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the employ of a
village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as police officers. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PRESIDENT. Mayor or Village President.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified United States mail and CERTIFIED MAIL
includes registered United States mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning established in Article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The state of Illinois.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section l of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70,
§ 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law for any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be (1) the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he is unable to
write, his proper mark, or (2) an electronic signature as defined in the
Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, by his duly authorized facsimile signature
under the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.” (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders. (ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future. (ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 70, § 1.02)
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70,
§ 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, so far as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein. (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 3)
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 85, § 2)
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended. (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 4)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, subsection, section,
article or chapter of this code of ordinances is found and determined to be
invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction such finding
shall not affect any other words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
subsections, sections, articles or chapters of this code which can be given
effect without the invalid provisions.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed l-l-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section is derived from or is similar to the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1 et seq.) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see ILCS Ch.
5, Act 140, § 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not less than $500 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official map adopted by reference
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL MAP ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The map for the village is hereby adopted by reference thereto and
incorporated herein and shall be designated as the official map of the village,
which said map shall consist of the whole area included within the official
Comprehensive Plan of the village and all of the contiguous unincorporated area
within 1½ miles from the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   All ordinances previously adopted and from time to time amended by the
corporate authorities of the village which relate to among other things size of
streets, alleys, public ways, parks, playgrounds, school sites and other public
grounds, and ways for public service facilities; and the kind and quality of
maintenance which shall be used in construction of the streets and alleys; and
the kind and quality of materials as public facilities as may be consistent
with the industry standards and standards for drainage of sanitary sewers and
treatment of sewage, including but not limited to those portions of the
following ordinances which specifically relate to the aforementioned provisions
are hereby incorporated herein:
      (1)   Standard details; grading, drainage, streets, utilities, see
Ordinance 523 and its amendments.
      (2)   Adoption of codes, see Ordinance 541 and its amendments.
      (3)   Official zoning ordinance, see
Chapter 156.
      (4)   General development plan, see Ordinance 920 and its amendments.
      (5)   Land subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 155.
      (6)   Flood plain ordinance, see
Chapter 152.
   (C)   The official map of the village or true and exact copies thereof shall
be placed on file with the Clerk of the village and shall be available at all
times during business hours for public inspection.
(Ord. 1054, passed 2-16-80)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TRUSTEE-VILLAGE FORM
      
31.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   TAXATION
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS
      
36.   COMPLIANCE TICKETS
CHAPTER 30: TRUSTEE-VILLAGE FORM
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Government officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of Frankfort is that of a village with such powers
available to it as provided by law.
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   The village is hereby governed by an elected President of the Board of
Trustees, and by six elected Trustees who collectively are called the Board of
Trustees.
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Meetings
   
31.01   Meetings
   
31.02   Village President and Trustees serving as ex officio members of
committees
   
31.03   Participation and voting by electronic conferencing
Village Officials
   
31.10   Terms of newly elected officials
   
31.11   Compensation of village officers
MEETINGS
§ 31.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The village shall publish the schedule of regular meetings at the
beginning of each calendar or fiscal year and shall state the regular dates,
times, and places of such meetings. If not published otherwise, the first and
third Monday of each month commencing at the hour of 7:00 p.m. is hereby
designated as the regular time for the meetings of the Board of Trustees of the
village. Said regular meetings referred to in this section shall be held in the
designated Village Board room or other designated location.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called at any time by the
President or two Trustee members upon giving not less than 48 hours notice,
unless a bona fide emergency exists.
   (C)   In the event there shall be a quorum present at any regular or special
meeting of the Board of Trustees, then the member or members present at said
meeting may adjourn the meeting to a future date and fix the date and hour of
said adjourned meeting. No notice of said adjourned meeting shall be necessary
if such meeting is reconvened within 24 hours or if an announcement of the time
and place of the reconvened meeting is made at the original meeting and there
is no change in the agenda.
   (D)   All regular, special, and emergency meetings in the village shall be
held in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/), as
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 569, passed 1-17-66; Am. Ord. 3192, passed 2-19-19)
§ 31.02 VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES SERVING AS EX OFFICIO MEMBERS OF
COMMITTEES.
   The Village President and each Trustee of the village is designated and
shall serve as an ex officio member of each of the village’s advisory
committees as from time to time enumerated in §
32.075 and if in attendance, shall be counted for purposes of establishing the
committee’s quorum and have the right to vote on matters coming before it.
(Ord. 3145, passed 4-16-18)
§ 31.03 PARTICIPATION AND VOTING BY ELECTRONIC CONFERENCING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC BODY is defined as the President
and each member of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Frankfort.
   (B)   Any meeting of the Board of Trustees at which a quorum of the public
body is physically present may be attended by a member of the public body by
means of electronic conferencing, audio or video, under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The member cannot be physically present at a Village Board meeting
due to personal illness or disability; employment or village related matters;
or family or other emergency;
      (2)   The member desiring to attend the Village Board meeting by
electronic conferencing has notified the Village Clerk at least 48 hours in
advance of said meeting, unless advance notice is impractical;
      (3)   After being duly identified, the member’s voice on an audio
conference or image with audio capabilities on a video conference shall be
broadcast to the public at the meeting;
      (4)   The member shall state the reason for not being physically present
at the meeting; and
      (5)   The public body will vote whether to approve electronic attendance
or not and electronic attendance will not be permitted without majority
approval.
   (C)   All members attending a meeting by electronic conferencing with
majority approval of the public body shall be entitled to participate in and
vote as if they were personally and physically present at the meeting so long
as the electronic audio connection exists and a quorum of the public body is
physically present. The Village Board minutes shall reflect compliance with
these conditions.
(Ord. 3193, passed 2-19-19)
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
§ 31.10 TERMS OF NEWLY ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The terms of municipal officials elected at the consolidated election
conducted on the first Tuesday in April of odd numbered years shall commence at
the first regular or special meeting of the corporate authorities of the
village, whichever such meeting occurs first, in the month of May immediately
following such consolidated election, at which meeting said newly elected
municipal officials shall be inaugurated and seated.
(Ord. 1060, passed 4-6-81)
§ 31.11 COMPENSATION OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   President. The salary of the Village President shall be $11,000 per
year payable monthly.
   (B)   Clerk. The salary of the Village Clerk shall be $4,500 per year
payable monthly.
   (C)   Trustee. The salary of each trustee shall be $4,500 per year payable
monthly.
   (D)   Liquor Commissioner. The salary of the Liquor Commissioner shall be
$2,650 per year payable semi-annually.
(Ord. 1397, passed 12-8-92; Am. Ord. 1428, passed 8-16-93; Am. Ord. 1479,
passed 11-7-94; Am. Ord. 2315, passed 8-21-06)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Local Improvements
   
32.001   Establishment
   
32.002   Powers and duties
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
32.015   Establishment
   
32.016   Membership
   
32.017   Coordinator
   
32.018   Functions and duties
   
32.019   Oath
   
32.020   Mobile support team
   
32.021   Mutual aid agreements
   
32.022   Local agency to cooperate with state during emergency
   
32.023   Compensation
   
32.024   Reimbursement by state to village for expenditures
   
32.025   Purchase of contracts; procurement of services, supplies, and
equipment
   
32.026   Designation of office space
   
32.027   Levy of tax
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
32.040   Compensation for attendance at meetings
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
32.060   Creation
   
32.061   Appointment of Board members
   
32.062   Quorum
   
32.063   Qualification; oath; bond; removal
   
32.064   Police Department; appointment of members; certificates of appointment
   
32.065   Annual report; budget request
   
32.066   Secretary of Board; duties; seal of board
   
32.067   Rooms and funds for operation of board
   
32.068   Compensation of Secretary and members of board
   
32.069   Powers and duties
Advisory Committees
   
32.075   Advisory committees
   
32.076   Advisory committees may change as necessary
   
32.077   Application
   
32.078   Appointment
   
32.079   Term
Police Department
   
32.105   Deputy Chief of Police
   
32.106 - 32.120   Reserved
   
32.121   Hiring standard for part-time police officers
   
32.122 - 31.199   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Board of Trustees for Police Pension Fund, see §§
34.15 through
34.21
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A board of local improvements is created for the village to be composed of
the Village President and all members of the Board of Trustees of the village.
The Village President shall be the President of the Board of Local
Improvements.
(Ord. 1065, passed 9-21-81)
§ 32.002 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall have all powers and duties expressly
or impliedly conferred under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 9-2-1 et seq. and as
hereafter from time to time amended.
(Ord. 1065, passed 9-21-81)
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is created the Village Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA)
to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with “The Illinois Emergency
Services and Disaster Act of 1975.”
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.016 MEMBERSHIP.
   The ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members as may
be selected by the Coordinator.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.017 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the Village ESDA shall be appointed by the
President and Board of Trustees and shall serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the President and Board of Trustees as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him,
shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in
the subchapter.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.018 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The Village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as
shall be prescribed in and by the State ESDA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such order, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties out of the corporate limits
as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided by “The State ESDA Act of 1975.”
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.019 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
   “I,                 , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose or evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of the State by force or violence; and that during such
time as I am affiliated with the Village ESDA organization, I will not advocate
nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence.”
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.020 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the Village ESDA organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the director of the State ESDA
as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Village ESDA organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment of office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the state reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.021 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the President and Board of Trustees and
by the Director of State ESDA.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.022 LOCAL AGENCY TO COOPERATE WITH STATE DURING EMERGENCY.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Village ESDA to
cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.023 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.024 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE TO VILLAGE FOR EXPENDITURES.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.025 PURCHASE OF CONTRACTS; PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES, SUPPLIES, AND
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the
Village Coordinator of ESDA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to
place the village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting
from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect
property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster, or from man- made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village
Coordinator of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such
services, supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the emergency without regard to the statutory procedures
or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations, as authorized by “The State ESDA Act of 1975,” provided that if
the President and Board of Trustees meet at such time they shall act subject to
the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.026 DESIGNATION OF OFFICE SPACE.
   The President and Board of Trustees is authorized to designate space in a
village building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for the Village ESDA as its
office.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
§ 32.027 LEVY OF TAX.
   The President and Board of Trustees may make an appropriation for ESDA
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed $.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all
taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the “The State
ESDA Act of 1975"; however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no
event exceed $.25 per capita.
(Ord. 908, passed 2-16-76)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 32.040 COMPENSATION FOR ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Each member of the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Plan Commission of
the village shall receive $35 as compensation for each regular meeting attended
by said member. Each member is allowed to be absent for two meetings during
each year for which compensation may be paid.
   (B)   The Chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals and the Plan Commission of
the village shall receive $50 as compensation for each regular meeting attended
by said Chairman. Each Chairman is allowed to be absent for two meetings during
each year for which compensation may be paid.
(Ord. 1055, passed 2-16-81; Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-30-89)
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.060 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners,
(hereafter “Board”), consisting of three members whose terms of office shall be
three years and until their respective successors are appointed to this Board
and have qualified, except that the terms of the first three members appointed
shall be [as described]: one of the members shall be appointed to serve until
the end of the then current municipal year, (for convenience, sometimes
referred to as Commissioner 1); another to serve until the end of the municipal
fiscal year next ensuing, (for convenience, sometimes referred to as
Commissioner 2); and the third to serve until the end of the municipal fiscal
year second next ensuing (for convenience, sometimes referred to as
Commissioner 3).
   (B)   The Board members shall elect a Chairperson to serve during each
municipal fiscal year. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment of the member whose office is vacant.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.061 APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, provided that no appointment shall be
made by the President within 30 days before the expiration of his/her term of
office.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.062 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Board constitutes a quorum for the conduct of all
business.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.063 QUALIFICATION; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The members of the Board shall be considered officers of the
municipality, and each member shall file with the Village Clerk an oath and a
fidelity bond in the sum of $10,000.
   (B)   No person holding an office under a municipality shall be a member of
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners or the Secretary thereof. The
acceptance of any such office by a member of the Board shall be treated as a
resignation of his/her office as a member of the Board or the Secretary
thereof. No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected official of the village. No more than two members
of the Board shall belong to the same political party existing in the
municipality at the time of the appointments and as defined in the Illinois
Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 10-2 et seq.). If only one or no
political party exists in the municipality at the time of the appointments,
then state or national political party affiliations shall be considered in
making such appointments. Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of
the person appointed as a member of the Board.
   (C)   Board members shall not be subject to removal, except for cause, upon
written charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within 30 days in his/her
or their own defense, before a regular meeting of the Village Board. A majority
vote of the elected members of the Village Board shall be required to remove
any member from office.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.064 POLICE DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; CERTIFICATES OF
APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall appoint all officers and members of the Police
Department except the Chief of Police. Unless otherwise provided, the Chief of
Police shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent
of the Village Board and removed as provided by law.
   (B)   The sole authority to issue certificates of appointment shall be
vested in the Board and all certificates of appointment issued to any officer
or member of the Police Department shall be signed by the Chairperson and
Secretary respectively of the Board upon appointment of such officer or member
of the Police Department.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.065 ANNUAL REPORT; BUDGET REQUEST.
   On or about January 30 of each year, the Board shall submit to the Village
President a report of its activities commencing from the date of its last
report, and of the rules in force and the practical effect thereof. In this
report the Board may make suggestions which the Board believes would result in
greater efficiency in the Police Department. In addition and concurrently the
Board shall submit its annual budget request to operate and conduct the Board’s
business for the following fiscal year to the Village President.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.066 SECRETARY OF BOARD; DUTIES; SEAL OF BOARD.
   The Board may employ a Secretary, or may designate one of its own members to
act as Secretary. The Secretary shall:
   (A)   Keep the minutes of the Board’s proceedings;
   (B)   Be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of the
Board;
   (C)   Keep a record of all examinations held;
   (D)   Perform all other duties the Board prescribes; and
   (E)   Be custodian of the seal of the Board, if one is adopted, and the
Board is hereby authorized to adopt an official seal and to prescribe the form
thereof by resolution of the Board.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.067 ROOMS AND FUNDS FOR OPERATION OF BOARD.
   The corporate authorities of the village shall provide suitable rooms for
the Board and shall allow reasonable use of public buildings for holding
examinations by the Board and shall further provide adequate funds in the
annual appropriation ordinance for the operation of the Board.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
§ 32.068 COMPENSATION OF SECRETARY AND MEMBERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   The compensation for the members of the Board shall be $30 for each
meeting attended. Each member is allowed to be absent from two meetings during
each fiscal year, for which compensation shall be paid.
   (B)   Compensation shall be payable semi-annually through the end of October
and April of each fiscal year.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 8-7-00)
§ 32.069 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall conduct itself and possess such rights, authority, powers,
obligations and duties as may from time to time be granted it by law including
as set forth in Article 10, Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.) as from time to time amended.
(Ord. 1343, passed 4-1-91)
ADVISORY COMMITTEES
§ 32.075 ADVISORY COMMITTEES.
   Current advisory committees consist of the following:
   (A)   Community Services Committee.
   (B)   Economic Development Committee.
   (C)   Financial Affairs Committee.
   (D)   Land Use and Policy Committee.
   (E)   911 Committee.
   (F)   Operations Committee.
   (G)   Traffic Advisory Committee.
   (H)   Tree Advisory Board.
(Ord. 3144, passed 4-16-18; Am. Ord. 3210, passed 6-17-19; Am. Ord. 3216,
passed 7-15-19; Am. Ord. 3477, passed 11-18-24)
§ 32.076 ADVISORY COMMITTEES MAY CHANGE AS NECESSARY.
   Current committee names and structure may be changed, eliminated or new
committees created by the village from time to time as necessary to aid in
efficient village operations.
(Ord. 3144, passed 4-16-18)
§ 32.077 APPLICATION.
   Each year, prior to May 1, the Village President and Board of Trustees will
publicly announce and solicit citizen participation for its advisory committees
through an application process.
(Ord. 3144, passed 4-16-18)
§ 32.078 APPOINTMENT.
   Each year, at a Village Board meeting prior to May 1, the Village President,
with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, will appoint
residents to serve on its advisory committees.
(Ord. 3144, passed 4-16-18)
§ 32.079 TERM.
   Village residents appointed to an advisory committee will generally serve
for one year, unless otherwise noted, with terms from May 1 until April 30 of
the following year.
(Ord. 3144, passed 4-16-18)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.105 DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Creation of position. The village creates and establishes the position
of Deputy Police Chief of the Village Police Department. The Village Police
Chief is authorized to appoint a Deputy Chief. In the event the Police
Department has 25 or more full-time officers, the Police Chief is authorized to
appoint a second Deputy Chief.
   (B)   Deputy Chief exempt rank position. The Deputy Chief position shall be
an exempt rank immediately below that of Chief. The Deputy Chief may be
appointed from any rank of sworn, full-time officers of the village’s Police
Department, but must have at least five years of full-time service as a police
officer in that department. A Deputy Chief shall serve at the discretion of the
Chief and, if removed from the position, shall revert to the rank currently
held, without regard as to whether a vacancy exists in that rank. A Deputy
Chief of Police, having been appointed from any rank of sworn full-time
officers of the village’s Police Department, shall be permitted, regardless of
rank, to take promotional exams and be promoted to a higher classified rank
than the Deputy Chief currently holds, without having to resign as Deputy Chief
of Police.
   (C)   Termination of position of Commander. The exempt rank position of
Commander of the Police Department is terminated and eliminated. The persons
currently holding this position shall revert to the rank they hold which is the
rank of Sergeant without regard as to whether a vacancy exists in that rank.
(Ord. 2774, passed 5-21-12)
§§ 32.106 - 32.120 RESERVED.
§ 32.121 HIRING STANDARD FOR PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Hiring standards. The village adopts as its hiring standards for the
position of part-time police officer those “eligibility for hiring standards”
for the position of full-time police officer, as from time to time adopted or
amended by the Village Fire and Police Commission:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Meet the minimum education requirement as established for a full-
time officer by the Fire and Police Commission, i.e. a high school diploma, GED
certificate, Associate’s Degree, and the like.
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois diver’s license.
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. Military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as defined in the
Polices and General Orders of the Village of Frankfort Police Department;
however, the number of hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar
year is restricted. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to
supervise or direct full-time police officers. Part-time police officers shall
be trained in accordance with the Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules and requirements of the Illinois Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (C)   That the aforesaid hiring standards, particularly with respect to
part-time police officers employed by the Village of Frankfort, Will and Cook
Counties, Illinois, shall be submitted to the Illinois Law Enforcement Training
Standards Board, as required by statute.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
the employment, and may be removed at any time. Part-time police officers shall
comply with all applicable rules and General Orders and Policies issued by the
Police Department.
(Ord. 2690, passed 1-24-11; Am. Ord. 2797, passed 8-20-12)
§§ 32.122 - 31.199 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Municipal use tax
   
33.002   Municipal service occupation tax
   
33.003   Municipal retailers’ occupation tax
   
33.004   Municipal leasing occupation tax
   
33.005   Automobile renting use tax
   
33.006   Municipal automobile renting occupation tax
   
33.007   Non-home rule municipal retailers’ occupation tax and non-home rule
municipal service occupation tax
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
33.020   Tax imposed
   
33.021   Illinois Department of revenue to administer
Hotel/Motel Accommodations Tax
   
33.040   Title
   
33.041   Definitions and construction
   
33.042   Tax imposed
   
33.043   Tax borne by lessee
   
33.044   Collection
   
33.045   Payment and penalty for no payment
   
33.046   Records
   
33.047   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
33.048   Proceeds
Municipal Utility Tax
   
33.060   Imposition of electricity tax
   
33.061   Imposition of municipal gas tax
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail from
a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of state
government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use
Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(Ord. 878, passed 10-21-74)
§ 33.002 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price
of all tangible personal property transferred by said service people either in
the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-5.
   (B)   Every supplier or serviceperson required to account for a municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of this village shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by Section Nine of the “Service Occupation Tax Act,” approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the mount of tax hereby imposed.
(Ord. 629, passed 8-18-69)
§ 33.003 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 1%
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 8-11-1.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department or Revenue required by Section Three of “An Act in Relation to a Tax
upon Persons to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible
Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 28, 1933,
as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 628, passed 8-18-69)
§ 33.004 MUNICIPAL LEASING OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting or leasing tangible personal property to the users thereof at the rate
of .5% of the gross receipts from such renting or leasing made in the course of
such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6.
   (B)   Every person engaged in such business in the village shall file with
the State Department of Revenue the return in the manner as required by Section
Five of the “Leasing Occupation Tax Act” as adopted by the 74th General
Assembly.
   (C)   At the time such return is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from renting or leasing tangible personal property during the
preceding month.
(Ord. 561, passed 9-7-65)
§ 33.005 AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this village an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside the state and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this state’s government in this village at the
rate of 1% of the rental price of such an automobile while this section is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-8.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by Sections Two and Three of “An Act in Relation
to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal
Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 29, 1933, as
amended.
   (C)   The tax provided for in this section shall be collected from the
persons whose state address for titling or registration purposes is given as
being in this village.
   (D)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of renting of
automobiles during the preceding month.
(Ord. 1070, passed 1-4-82)
§ 33.006 MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this village at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts
from such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-7.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by Sections Two and Three of “An Act in Relation
to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal
Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 29, 1933, as
amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
(Ord. 1069, passed 1-4-82)
§ 33.007 NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND NON- HOME RULE
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property which is titled and registered by any agency of this state’s
government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of 1% of
the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
serviceman either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service. This “Non-Home Rule Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax” and this “Non- Home Rule Municipal Service
Occupation Tax” shall not be applicable to the sale of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and non- prescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, and insulin, rine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
      (2)   The imposition of these non-home rule taxes is in accordance with
and subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-11-1.1, 8-11-1.2, 8-
11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of
Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3186, passed 12-17-18)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 33.020 TAX IMPOSED.
   The village imposes a simplified municipal telecommunications tax upon the
act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the village
intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a person under the provisions of
the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636, §§
5-1 et seq.), at the rate of 6% of the gross charges for such
telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
(Ord. 3095, passed 6-19-17)
§ 33.021 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER.
   The simplified municipal telecommunications tax hereby imposed shall be
collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the state. The Illinois
Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3095, passed 6-19-17)
HOTEL/MOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
§ 33.040 TITLE.
   Pursuant to the ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14, as amended, this subchapter
shall be known and cited as the “Hotel Accommodations Tax Ordinance” and the
tax herein imposed shall be known and cited as the “Hotel Accommodations Tax.”
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
§ 33.041 DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS. A room or rooms in any building or structure
located in the village and kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held
out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment hotel, lodging house,
romantic getaway, dormitory or place, where sleeping, rooming, conference or
exhibition accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or
without meals, in which ten or more such accommodations are used or maintained
for guests, lodgers or roomers. HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS does not include an
accommodation which a person occupies, or has the right to occupy, as his or
her domicile and permanent residence.
      PERSON. Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership,
joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, for profit, nonprofit or otherwise.
Whenever the term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the term as applied to corporations shall include the officers
thereof, and as applied to any other entity, the owners of part-owners thereof.
      TREASURER.  The Treasurer of the Village of Frankfort.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Frankfort.
   (B)   Construction. In this subchapter, unless the text otherwise requires,
words in the singular number include the plural and in the plural include the
singular; words of the masculine gender include the feminine and the neuter;
and when the sense so indicates, words in the neuter gender may refer to any
gender.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
§ 33.042 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed and shall accrue, as set forth in §
33.045, and be collected a tax, as herein provided, upon the rental or leasing
of any hotel accommodations at the rate of 2% of the gross rental or leasing
charge.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
§ 33.043 TAX BORNE BY LESSEE.
   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be
borne by the hotel owner, manager or operator of such hotel accommodations. The
tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. The hotel
owner, manager, or operator may reimburse themselves for their tax liability
for such tax by charging the lessee or tenant of such hotel accommodations by
separately stating such tax as an additional charge on the lessee’s or tenant’s
statement of charges. It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or operator
of hotel accommodations to secure said tax from the lessee or tenant of said
hotel accommodations and pay over to the Treasurer said tax under rules and
regulations prescribed by the Treasurer and as otherwise provided by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
§ 33.044 COLLECTION.
   The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel owner, manager or
operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price, charge or rent to
which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a bill, invoice,
receipt or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge or rent payable
upon which the hotel accommodations tax shall be stated, charged and shown
separately. The hotel accommodations tax shall be paid to the Treasurer or the
authorized representative of this office on a monthly basis. The tax shall be
due on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding calendar month.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
§ 33.045 PAYMENT AND PENALTY FOR NO PAYMENT.
   (A)   Every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations shall file a
sworn tax return on a monthly basis with the Treasurer showing tax receipts
received with respect to hotel accommodation space rented or leased during the
preceding monthly period, upon forms prescribed by the Treasurer. At the time
of filing said tax return, the owner, manager or operator of hotel
accommodations shall pay to the Treasurer all taxes due for the period to which
the tax return applies.
   (B)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 2% per month on the amount of tax which remains unpaid shall be added and
collected. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided,
upon the request of the Treasurer, the corporation counsel shall bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax in behalf of the
village in any court of competent jurisdiction with the cost of such
enforcement to be borne by the owner of the hotel accommodations.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.046 RECORDS.
   Every owner, manager or operator of hotel accomodations shall keep books and
records showing the prices, rents or charges made or charged, and occupancies
taxable under this subsection. The Treasurer, or his or her designate, shall at
all reasonable times have full access to said books and records.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.047 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   If the president, after hearing held by or for him or her, shall find that
any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter,
he or she may suspend or revoke all village licenses held by said tax evader.
The owner, manager or operator of the hotel accommodations shall have an
opportunity to be heard and such hearing shall not be held less than five days
after notice of the time and place of the hearing, addressed to the owner,
manager or operator at his or her last known place of business. The suspension
or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the owner, manager
or operator of hotel accommodations from civil liability for the payment of the
tax nor for prosecution of such offense.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
§ 33.048 PROCEEDS.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including penalties, shall be distributed within 30 days after the fifteenth
day of the calendar month as follows:
   (A)   One percent of the gross rental or lease charges collected shall be
paid to the Chicago Southland Convention and Visitors Bureau for the sole
purpose of promoting tourism and conventions.
   (B)   The excess over the 1% of the gross rental or lease charges collected
shall be retained by the Village to defray the costs of administering and
processing the imposition and collection of the tax.
   (C)   In the event the village increases the tax collected pursuant to §
33.042 hereof, the Bureau shall only be entitled to 1% of the gross rental or
lease charges collected.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 33.060 IMPOSITION OF ELECTRICITY TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of the tax imposed by this section, the
following terms shall be defined as follows:
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by any order of court.
      PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Any person having
or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other
affiliate, an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission
facility, sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
person or its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located in this state
permanently or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other
affiliate is licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
      PURCHASE AT RETAIL. Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-
11-2, directly in the generation, production, transmission, delivery, or sale
of electricity.
      PURCHASER. Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits
of the village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
   (B)   Municipal utility tax imposed on use or consumption of electricity.
      (1)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the village imposes a tax
upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village at the
following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
         (a)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.00610 per kilowatt-hour;
         (b)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.00400 per kilowatt-hour;
         (c)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.00360 per kilowatt-hour;
         (d)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.00350 per kilowatt-hour;
         (e)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.00340 per kilowatt-hour;
         (f)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.00320 per kilowatt-hour;
         (g)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.00315 per kilowatt-hour;
         (h)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.00310 per kilowatt-hour;
         (i)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.00305 per kilowatt-hour;
         (j)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: $0.00300 per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   This tax is in addition to all other taxes, fees, and other revenue
measures imposed by the village, the State of Illinois, or any other political
subdivision of the state.
      (3)   This tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by purchasers beginning with the first bill issued on or after
September 1, 2017.
      (4)   The use or consumption of electricity within the village by units
of local government or school districts shall be exempt from the tax imposed
under this section.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the Constitution or statutes of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of Illinois.
   (C)   Collection of electricity tax.
      (1)   Subject to the provision of division (E) of this section, the tax
imposed by this section shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person
that delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same
time and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity.
      (2)   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this section, and any
tax in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the
person delivering the electricity, provided, however, that the person
delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible, and provided further that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
      (3)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax they collect to reimburse
them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the
village upon request. For the purposes of this section, any partial payment of
a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to
be for the delivery of electricity.
   (D)   Tax remittance and return.
      (1)   Every person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers electricity to a purchaser in accordance with the section shall, on a
monthly basis, file a return in a form prescribed by the Village Treasurer. The
return and accompanying remittance shall be due on or before the last day of
the month following the month during which the tax is collected or is required
to be collected under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
      (2)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under division (E) of this
section, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
Village Treasurer and pay the tax directly to the Village Treasurer on or
before the last day of the month following the month during which the
electricity is used or consumed.
   (E)   Resales.
      (1)   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village
Treasurer and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity,
and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      (2)   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village
Treasurer for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it
is not liable for the tax imposed by this section on any purchases of
electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the Village
Treasurer may reasonably require.
      (3)   Upon approval of the application, the Village Treasurer shall
assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the
applicant.
      (4)   The Village Treasurer may cancel the resale number of any person if
the person fails to pay any tax payable under this section for electricity used
or consumed by the person, or if the number was either:
         (a)   Obtained through misrepresentation; or
         (b)   No longer necessary because the person has discontinued making
resales.
      (5)   If a reseller had acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this section directly to the Village Treasurer pursuant to division (D)(2) of
this section on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or consumes,
and shall collect the tax pursuant to division (D) and remit the tax pursuant
to division (D)(1) of this section to the Village Treasurer on the amount of
electricity delivered by the reseller to the purchaser.
      (6)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions in this section, shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports the total amount of
electricity delivered to the reseller, and such other information that the
Village Treasurer may reasonably require.
   (F)   Books and records. Every person maintaining a place of business in
this state who delivers electricity to a purchaser and every taxpayer required
to pay the tax imposed by this section, shall keep and maintain accurate books
and records of its business or activity, including contemporaneous books and
records denoting the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to
any tax liability under this section. Those books and records shall be subject
to and available for inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
   (G)   Credits and refunds. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting to the village,
no person shall be entitled to a refund or, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this section unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one
year after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted.
   (H)   Penalty. Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this
section, is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $750 and in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
   (I)   Further remedies. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
limiting any additional or further remedies that the village may have for
enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 3096, passed 6-19-17)
§ 33.061 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL GAS TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of the municipal gas tax imposed by this
section, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, and for
all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credit services and property of every
kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, and shall be
determined without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product
or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or
any other expenses whatsoever; provided, however that GROSS RECEIPTS shall not
include any amounts specifically excluded from the definition of gross receipts
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2(d). The term GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include that
portion of the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling gas to units of local government or school districts within the
corporate limits of the village.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      TAXPAYER. Person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the village and not for resale.
   (B)   Municipal gas tax imposed.
      (1)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the village imposes a tax
on all persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing,
or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the
village and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
      (2)   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction
in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may
not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject
to taxation by the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof; nor
shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the “Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act” authorized by
Section 8-1-1-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
      (3)   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
   (C)   Implementation.
      (1)   On or before the last day of October 2017, each taxpayer shall make
a return to the Village Treasurer for the month of September, stating;
         (a)   Its name;
         (b)   Its principal place of business;
         (c)   Its gross receipts during the month upon basis of which the tax
is imposed;
         (d)   The amount of tax; and
         (e)   Any other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for a corresponding one month
period.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return provided for in this section shall,
at the time of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer, the amount of
tax imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if
the taxpayer so elects, report and pay an amount based upon the total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   (D)   Errors. If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which
was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than
three years prior to the filing of a claim therefore shall be so credited.
   (E)   Actions to recover. No action to recover any amount of tax due under
the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three years after
the due date of such amount.
   (F)   Penalty. Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $750 and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 3096, passed 6-19-17)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty for violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of §§
33.040 through
33.048, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine or not less than $50 nor more than $300 for the
first offense and not less than $200 nor more than $500 for the second and each
subsequent offense in any 180-day period, provided, however, that all actions
seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions
subject to the provisions of the Illinois Civil Practice Act (ILCS Ch. 735, Act
5, §§ 1-101 et seq.). Repeated offenses in excess of three within any 180-day
period may also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration for a term not
to exceed six months under the procedure set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-
2-1.1, and under the provisions of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure
(ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq.). A separate and distinct offense shall
be regarded as committed each day upon which each person shall continue any
such violations.
(Ord. 2066, passed 4-19-04)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   State Municipal Retirement Fund; participation by village
   
34.02   Policy for vehicle safety belt use by employees of the village
   
34.03   Travel, meal and lodging expenses
   
34.04   Paid leave policy
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
34.05   Adoption of Act
Police Pension Fund
   
34.15   Creation of Fund
   
34.16   Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund
   
34.17   Meetings
   
34.18   Powers and duties
   
34.19   Compensation
   
34.20   Costs
   
34.21   Intent
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND; PARTICIPATION BY VILLAGE.
   The village does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 1974, and the Police Pension Fund,
adopted March, 1991.
(Ord. 812, passed 3-19-73)
§ 34.02 POLICY FOR VEHICLE SAFETY BELT USE BY EMPLOYEES OF THE VILLAGE.
    (A)   Purpose. The village wants to reduce the potential for serious
injuries for its employees as a result of motor vehicle collisions. Safety
belts are an effective life saving and injury reducing device for all types of
motor vehicle accidents. When safety belts are used, the chances of serious
injury or death are reduced 50% to 65%. Furthermore, safety belts assist law
enforcement personnel in maintaining proper control of their vehicles during
pursuit or other emergency high speed conditions. By this policy, the village
hopes to reduce human pain and suffering, set an example for its citizens, and
reduce the burden on society caused by motor vehicle accidents.
   (B)   Policy. While operating or riding in the front seat of a municipal or
private vehicle on official business for the village, all employees shall use a
safety belt restraining system in the manner prescribed by the manufacturer, in
compliance with the Illinois Vehicle Code, Chapter 95½, Section 12-603.1. This
policy shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Persons unable to use the safety belt system of a vehicle for
physical reasons, as evidenced by a physician’s statement.
      (2)   Persons occupying a seating position or a vehicle not equipped with
a safety belt assembly.
      (3)   Persons operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
      (4)   Persons operating a motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      (5)   Persons operating a motor vehicle within confined areas such as the
maintenance garage.
      (6)   Persons operating a motor vehicle less than 500 feet from job site
to job site.
      (7)   Persons operating a motor vehicle not exceeding 10 mph for tasks
such as mowing.
(Ord. 1369, passed 1-20-92)
§ 34.03 TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall be defined as written for
this section unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the village to carry out the
responsibilities of village business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall only reimburse or authorize for payment for
travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to
the maximum allowable amount of $1,750 per occurrence.
      (2)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (C)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
village employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “travel, meal, and
lodging expense reimbursement request form,” attached hereto and made a part
hereof, has been submitted and approved. All documents and information
submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.).
   (D)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of:
      (1)   Any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement
allowed under the regulations adopted under division (C) of this section; or
      (2)   Any member of the corporate authorities of the village may only be
approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the corporate authorities of
the village. However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more than the maximum
allowable expenses set forth above.
   (E)   The village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or
officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities
which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from
the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 3077, passed 2-21-17)
§ 34.04 PAID LEAVE POLICY.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 820, Act 192, § 15(p), the village adopts its current
paid leave policy for all village employees as set forth in the village’s code
of ordinances, employee handbook, annual salary ordinances, any collective
bargaining agreements to which the village is a party and all other binding
legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the Present and Board of
Trustees of the village, as the same may be amended from time to time. However,
in not event shall the village, as an employer, provide less than one day of
paid leave per year to any village employee.
(Ord. 3425, passed 11-20-23)
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
§ 34.05 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15 and ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in
this section) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the
officers and employees of the village to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited. Such
participation also includes prohibiting the distribution of the village
newsletter publication within 30 days of a local election.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the Corporate Authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 2077, passed 5-17-04; Am. Ord. 2262, passed 1-9-06)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICE PENSION FUND
§ 34.15 CREATION OF FUND.
   There is hereby created and established as required by law the Village of
Frankfort Police Pension Fund to be administered and operated in conformance
with Article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code (Illinois Revised Statutes Ch. 108½
Par. 3-101 et. seq.) as from time to time amended.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
§ 34.16 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE PENSION FUND.
   (A)   A Board of five members, a majority of whom shall be residents of the
village, shall constitute a Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund to
administer the Pension Fund and to designate the beneficiaries thereof. The
Board shall be known as the “Board of Trustees of the Frankfort Police Pension
Fund” or “Pension Board.”
   (B)   Two members of the Pension Board shall be appointed by the President
of the Board of Trustees. The third and fourth members of the Pension Board
shall be elected from the active participants of this Pension Fund by such
active participants. The fifth member of the Pension Board shall be elected by
and from among the beneficiaries of the fund.
   (C)   One of the Pension Board members appointed by the Village President
shall serve for one year beginning on the second Tuesday of May, 1991. The
other appointed Pension Board member shall serve for two years beginning on the
same date. The successors of the appointed members of the Board shall serve for
two years each or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (D)   The election provided for in this section for elected Pension Board
members shall be held biennially on the third Monday in April at such place or
places in the village and under the Australian ballot system and such other
regulations as shall be prescribed by the appointed members of the Pension
Board.
   (E)   The active participants in the Pension Fund shall be entitled to vote
only for the active participant members of the Pension Board. All Pension Fund
beneficiaries of legal age may vote only for the Pension Board member chosen
from among the beneficiaries. No person shall be entitled to cast more than one
ballot at such election. The term of the elected members shall be two years,
beginning on the second Tuesday of May, 1991.
   (F)   Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected Pension
Board member, his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election, to be called by the Pension Board and conducted in the same
manner as the regular biennial election.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
§ 34.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Pension Board shall hold annually regular quarterly meetings in
July, October, January and April, and special meetings as called by the Pension
Board President.
   (B)   At the regular July meeting, the Pension Board shall select from its
members a President, Vice- President, Secretary, and Assistant Secretary to
serve for one year and until their respective successors are elected and
qualified.
   (C)   The Vice-President shall perform the duties of President during any
vacancy in that office, or during the President’s absence from the village, or
if he or she is by reason of illness or other causes unable to perform the
duties of the office. The Assistant Secretary shall act for the Secretary
whenever necessary to discharge the functions of such office.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
§ 34.18 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Pension Board shall have all applicable rights, powers, obligations and
duties as from time to time granted by law including as set forth in Article 3
of the Illinois Pension Code (ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.) as from
time to time amended.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
§ 34.19 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Pension Board shall neither receive nor have any right to
receive any salary from the pension fund for services performed as trustees in
that office.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
§ 34.20 COSTS.
   The cost of providing the pension benefits required to be paid by the
village under the provision of the Illinois Pension Code and this subchapter
shall be financed by the levy of a tax pursuant to the provision of Section 3-
125 of the Illinois Pension Code.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
§ 34.21 INTENT.
   It is the intention of the corporate authorities of the village that the
provisions of this subchapter shall in all respects comply with and be
consistent with the provisions of the Illinois Pension Code, and this
subchapter shall be construed so as to give it that effect.
(Ord. 1342, passed 3-4-91)
CHAPTER 35: ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS
Section
   
35.01   Agreements to be accompanied by petition upon submission to village
   
35.02   Preliminary filing fee
   
35.03   Owner to pay cost of publication of notices, related expenses
   
35.04   Professional assistance; reimbursement for expenditures
   
35.05   Additional fees and expenses
   
35.06   Annexation to the Frankfort Fire Protection District
§ 35.01 AGREEMENTS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY PETITION UPON SUBMISSION TO VILLAGE.
   All annexation agreements submitted to the village pursuant to the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-15.1-1 et seq. for consideration and
hearing thereon shall be accompanied by a petition requesting the municipal
authorities to conduct the appropriate hearing or hearings thereon and to
publish notice of such hearings, such application or petition to be signed by
the record fee title owner of the real estate being the subject matter of such
proposed annexation agreement or the duly authorized agent of such owner.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-4-74)
§ 35.02 PRELIMINARY FILING FEE.
   All such applications or petitions for consideration of said annexation
agreements shall be accompanied with a preliminary filing fee in the amount as
set by the Board of Trustees if the hearing before the corporate authorities is
to be conducted on the same evening which is a regular meeting date of the
Village Board of Trustees. In the event the hearing on such proposed agreement
is to be held before the corporate authorities at any time other than a regular
meeting date, then the petition or application shall be accompanied with a
preliminary filing fee as set by the Board of Trustees. The Village Board of
Trustees at its sole discretion, shall determine the date on which it shall
conduct a hearing upon the proposed annexation agreement.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-4-74)
§ 35.03 OWNER TO PAY COST OF PUBLICATION OF NOTICES, RELATED EXPENSES.
   In addition to the fees in §
35.02, the record fee title owner of the subject lands shall pay unto the
village the cost of publication of all notices required by statute and related
expenses incurred by the village with regard to the pre-annexation agreement.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-4-74)
§ 35.04 PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE; REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENDITURES.
   In the event the Village Board of Trustees in its sole discretion determines
that it requires special assistance in order to insure a full and fair
evaluation of any such proposed annexation agreements, the Village Board of
Trustees may obtain such professional assistance from any qualified individual
or association and may incur expenses in respect thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees shall be reimbursed for any such expenditures for professional
assistance by the individual, group or business entity seeking approval of a
proposed annexation agreement, and any such individual, group or business
entity shall, prior to being granted the first hearing, public or otherwise,
before the Plan Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals or corporate authorities,
on their proposed annexation agreement, execute to the village a binding
commitment to reimburse the village for all expenditures in any amount incurred
by the village in obtaining such professional consultation and advice.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-4-74)
§ 35.05 ADDITIONAL FEES AND EXPENSES.
   The fees and expenses required by any other ordinance of the village, both
now in force or hereinafter adopted, shall not be affected hereby, it being the
express intention that the fees and expenses herein provided be in addition to
and not in lieu of such fees and expenses provided for in other ordinances.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-4-74)
§ 35.06 ANNEXATION TO THE FRANKFORT FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   The owner/developer of any parcel of property annexing into the village
shall petition the Frankfort Fire Protection District for annexation into its
district within 60 days of the execution of the annexation to the village,
provided the subject parcel is not located in any other fire protection
district.
(Ord. 1792, passed 4-3-00)
CHAPTER 36: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE TICKETS
Sections
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Issuance of tickets
   
36.03   Procedure
   
36.04   Notice to person receiving a compliance ticket
   
36.05   Failure to comply with the compliance ticket
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE TICKETS (“CT”). A ticket issued to a presumed offender alleging a
violation of one of the following Village of Frankfort Code of Ordinances.
      (1)   Chapter 119, §
119.08 (B) Sale, Give, Delivery of Tobacco to Minors;
      (2)   Chapter 131 Offenses Pertaining to Property; §
131.02 Theft, §
131.16 Retail Theft, §
131.30 Criminal Damage Property, where the retail value of the goods or cost to
repair is less than $300.00;
      (3)   The following Sections of Chapter 132 Offenses Against Public Order
and Safety; §
132.01 Disorderly Conduct; §
132.05 Loud or Unnecessary Noises; §§
132.20,
132.21,
132.23, Curfew for Minors; Chapter 136, Drug Offenses §
136.06 (less than 100 grams), §
136.07 Cannabis/Drug Paraphernalia, §
136.20 Look-Alike Drugs (less than 100 grams);
      (4)   Chapter 92, Animals; §
92.02 Cruelty to Animals; §
92.03 Disturbing the Peace, §
92.06 Running at Large, §
92.08 Animal Excrement, §
92.20 Nuisance;
      (5)   Chapter 113 Intoxicating Liquor: §
113.03 Possession of Alcohol in Public Places, §
113.04 Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages on Private Property, §
113.58 Misrepresentation of Age, §
113.59 Possession/Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages (under 21), §
113.59 Purchase or Possession of Alcoholic Liquor, §
113.62 Possession or Consumption of Alcohol by a Gathering Including Minor at
Residence, §
113.63 Parental Responsibility;
      (6)   Chapter 99 Fireworks, §
99.02 Prohibited Conduct;
      (7)   Chapter 115 Solicitors, Hawkers, and Peddlers, §
115.02 License Required, §
115.09 Hours of Operation, §
115.12 License and Identification Badges, §
115.10 Notice Regulating Soliciting, Peddling and Canvassing, §
115.14 No Soliciting on Public Way;
      (8)   Chapter 138 Smoking in Public Places, §
138.02 Smoking Prohibited.
(Ord. 2890, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 3005, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3056,
passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 3259, passed 9-21-20)
§ 36.02 ISSUANCE OF TICKETS.
   Any Village of Frankfort police officer or duly authorized person may issue
a CT for alleged offenses by a person eligible for a CT under this code.
(Ord. 2890, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 3005, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3056,
passed 9-19-16)
§ 36.03 PROCEDURE.
   Any person accused of violating an offense subject to compliance ticket, and
who is eligible for a CT, may initially be issued a CT in lieu of arrest or
other village initiated penalty as provided in this chapter.
   (A)   In the event the violator is accused of
Chapters 131,
136 or § 119.08, offenses of this code and receives a CT, the violator may pay
a compliance fee of $150 to the village within ten days of the issuance of the
CT as a settlement and compromise of the claim against the violator. The
violator shall have until the close of business on the tenth day to satisfy and
pay the village the compliance fee. In addition, for applicable violations
under
Chapter 131, the violator shall also immediately return to the victim the items
claimed to be subject to a theft in their same condition as immediately before
the incident, and/or fully pay all costs for any damage or repair to the victim
and within the ten days show proof of compliance of this requirement to the
Frankfort Police Chief or designee.
   (B)   In the event the violator is accused of violating
Chapter 113,
Chapter 115, or
Chapter 132 of this code and receives a CT, the violator may pay an
administrative fee of $100 to the village within ten days of the issuance of
the CT as a settlement and compromise of the claim against the violator, except
the fee for violation of §§
92.02,
92.03,
92.06,
92.08,
92.20,
99.02,
132.20,
132.21,
132.23 and
138.02 shall be $50. The violator shall have until the close of business on the
fourteenth day to satisfy said compliance fee.
(Ord. 2890, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 3005, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3056,
passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 3259, passed 9-21-20)
§ 36.04 NOTICE TO PERSON RECEIVING A COMPLIANCE TICKET.
   Each CT shall notify the alleged violator that: 1) No court appearance is
required and that it is solely their decision to elect to have this alleged
violation resolved under the terms of the compliance ticket process or to have
the matter charged and adjudicated in a court of law; 2) by paying the CT, they
acknowledge and admit their wrongdoing, waive their right to have a court
hearing to decide their innocence or guilt and set the penalty, if guilty, and
further agree to the appropriateness of the CT and its process; 3) Acknowledge
they still may have remaining legal responsibilities to the claimed victim; 4)
They can choose to elect not to pay the compliance fee assessed by the CT
within ten days of its issuance. In that event, the village can then file a
complaint against the alleged violator in the Circuit Court and serve them with
a copy of the court complaint and notice of a date and time to appear in Court.
(Ord. 2890, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 3005, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3056,
passed 9-19-16)
§ 36.05 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE COMPLIANCE TICKET.
   If any person fails to timely and fully comply with the provisions of the CT
within ten days from its issuance, the village shall note it on its records and
then may proceed against the alleged violator by filing a complaint in the
Circuit Court of Will County, Illinois and serving the alleged violator with a
copy of the complaint and a notice to appear in court as provided by law or via
debt collection services.
(Ord. 2890, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 3005, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3056,
passed 9-19-16)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
53.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Accumulation of uncollected refuse prohibited
   
50.04   Containers required
   
50.05   Location of containers for collection
   
50.06   Weekly collection by village
   
50.07   Dumpsters and trash handling in industrial, commercial and business
districts
Yard Waste Program
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Mixing of yard waste prohibited
   
50.17   Packing of yard waste
   
50.18   Sale and distribution of official yard waste bags
Recycling Program
   
50.25   Definition
   
50.26   Recycling program
   
50.27   Separation of recyclables; placement and time for recyclables removal
   
50.28   Mandatory recycling
   
50.29   Recycling containers
   
50.30   Recycling service charges
   
50.31   Collection by unauthorized persons
   
50.32   Unattended donation/collection boxes
Rates and Charges
   
50.40   Solid waste removal service charges
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to regulate and control the
accumulation, removal, and disposal of refuse and to eliminate unhealthy,
unsanitary, and unsightly conditions in the village.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74)
§ 50.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage, such as all animal debris, fruit, or vegetable
matter and all other substances capable of decay, fermentation or putrefaction,
paper, waste paper, rags, floor sweepings, tin cans, glass ware, crockery,
bottles, ashes, cinders, clinkers, and other household waste, and the
remodeling of old or construction of new buildings. The recital of illustrative
inclusions under the above definition are by way of example rather than
limitations.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74)
§ 50.03 ACCUMULATION OF UNCOLLECTED REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   No occupant, person, owner, owner's agent, or tenant of any private, or
public premise shall permit refuse to accumulate on such premises, except in
covered containers, or as provided hereinafter; and all such refuse should be
removed once every seven days or more if necessary to protect the health of the
inhabitants of the village.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every occupant, person, owner, owner's agent, or tenant, in possession
of any house, building, flat, or apartment in the village shall at all times
maintain in good order and repair a container or containers for garbage and
refuse. Foul-smelling, leaking, or defective receptacles should be cleaned,
repaired, or replaced as directed by the appropriate representative of the
village. A container shall be a can of galvanized iron or non-corrodible
material, rodent proof, watertight, and of the type commonly sold as a garbage
can, of a suitable gauge and construction to insure durability, and of a
capacity of not less than 10 gallons or more than 30 gallons.
   (B)   All household garbage or refuse shall be contained in plastic garbage
bags sealed tightly with no tears or openings. Such garbage or refuse shall be
drained and wrapped in paper to facilitate collection, and prevent freezing
especially during the winter months.
   (C)   All commercial, industrial, apartment buildings, religious, political,
social, and nonprofit organizations' refuse shall be stored in durable, rust-
resistant, nonabsorbent, totally enclosed metal containers.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74)
§ 50.05 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION.
   It shall be the duty of every occupant, person, owner, owner's agent, or
tenant in possession of any house, building, flat, or apartment, industrial,
commercial, religious, political, social, and nonprofit organizations in the
village to place garbage or refuse containers within five feet of the curb
line.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 WEEKLY COLLECTION BY VILLAGE.
   Every occupant, person, owner, or person in possession of private or
commercial premises in the village shall be required to have accumulations of
refuse removed and disposed of at least once a week. The village shall provide
for such weekly refuse removal services. No refuse, which is to be deposited
for collection at any curb, shall be so placed before 6:00 p.m. or sunset,
whichever occurs first, on the day prior to the collection day, and no
container shall so remain at the curb or alley after 10:00 p.m. on the day of
collection.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74; Am. Ord. 3416, passed 9-18-23) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DUMPSTERS AND TRASH HANDLING IN INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS
DISTRICTS.
   Except containers fully enclosed within a building, all new garbage refuse
containers in a commercial, industrial or business area shall be stored in a
fully enclosed and screened structure, concealed from the view of any public
street or abutting property owner and consisting of the following:
   (A)   Refuse containers shall be enclosed. One side shall provide an access
gate to allow for trash removal. Additionally, a self-closing, three-foot
access gate or equivalent shall be provided for manual access to the refuse
container.
   (B)   The enclosure shall be solid faced and constructed of wood, masonry or
similar materials that are aesthetically pleasant in appearance. Chain link or
similar types fencing shall not be used for this enclosure. Enclosure materials
should be constructed of the same material as the main building structure.
   (C)   Any masonry structure built or used for the screening of dumpsters or
trash containers shall be constructed on a concrete base.
   (D)   Any fence or wall required under this section shall have a height no
less than five feet, and no more than six feet.
   (E)   A building permit is required to construct any enclosure. The village
shall review and approve the plans and issue a permit for the construction of
this enclosure.
   (F)   It is useful, necessary, and advantageous for the village to set forth
hours from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. for the collection of refuse in the
industrial, commercial and business districts by private firms that have
contracted with the business owners for such services.
(Ord. 1505, passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2264, passed 1-23-06)
YARD WASTE PROGRAM
§ 50.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, partnerships and corporations.
   YARD WASTE. Includes grass, grass clippings, shrubbery, bush and shrub
branches, leaves, trees, wood chips, plants, bushes, tree limbs or branches and
any and all types of other similar materials or parts thereof.
(Ord. 1300, passed 6-18-90)
§ 50.16 MIXING OF YARD WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall mix yard waste that is intended for municipal collection or
disposal at a landfill with any other waste.
(Ord. 1300, passed 6-18-90) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 PACKING OF YARD WASTE.
   No person shall put yard waste into any container intended for municipal
collection or disposal at a landfill unless said container is a biodegradable
paper bag authorized and approved by the village that bears the official
village of Frankfort “Frankfort Yard Waste Program” label.
(Ord. 1300, passed 6-18-90) Penalty, see §
50.99
2007 S-13
§ 50.18 SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OFFICIAL YARD WASTE BAGS.
   Official yard waste bags shall be made available for public purchase at the
village hall in addition to other locations as from time to time authorized by
the Village Administrator. These bags shall be sold under the authority and at
a cost to be determined by the village. The cost shall include the cost for the
bag as well as collection and disposal of the yard waste.
(Ord. 1300, passed 6-18-90)
RECYCLING PROGRAM
§ 50.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Material having an economic value in the secondary materials
market, acceptable for collection by the village's recycling contractor, which
currently includes: steel, tin and aluminum beverage cans; amber, green and
clear glass containers; PET #1 and #2 plastic containers; newsprint and such
other materials which from time to time [may] be designated by the President
and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92)
§ 50.26 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   There is hereby established a “residential recycling program” requiring
residents of the village to separate recyclables from garbage and rubbish.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES; PLACEMENT AND TIME FOR RECYCLABLES REMOVAL.
   (A)   All products the village designates as recyclable shall be separated
from all other refuse. Occupants of single-family and duplex units shall place
recyclables in village-approved and issued containers, which shall be collected
by the village's curbside recycling contractor.
   (B)   Recyclables shall be placed in recycling containers at curbside at
times designated by the village of Frankfort. Occupants of multi-family
residential units shall transport or cause to be transported such recyclable
materials to designated drop-off sites.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 MANDATORY RECYCLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place for collection, removal or
disposal, any residential or household solid waste, refuse or garbage which
also contains recyclable materials.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The village shall provide each residential single-family and duplex
units with one curbside recycling container for their use. The container shall
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the village when a
person no longer resides in the corporate limits of the village. To return a
recycling container, the resident is responsible to contact the village offices
and the container will be collected by the village.
   (B)   In the event that a container is lost or stolen it shall be replaced
with a container provided by the village which shall also remain the property
of the village. The cost of such replacement container shall be the
responsibility of the resident and such cost shall be added to the next
appropriate invoice for full payment.
   (C)   Recyclable materials shall only be placed in village-approved
recycling containers, no other containers shall be used or permitted.
Additional containers for recycling use may be purchased from the village at a
cost equal to the cost of purchase as paid by the village.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 RECYCLING SERVICE CHARGES.
   The resident/occupant for each single family, duplex family, multi-family,
designated commercial business, or any other customer to which service is
rendered by the Village of Frankfort's scavenger services agreement shall pay
the residential collection rate per month as established in the village's
scavenger services agreement for the collection of recyclables (hereafter
referred to as "recycling charge"). The recycling charge shall be billed to the
resident/occupant with their monthly village utility bill and shall be due and
payable concurrent with said utility bill. It shall be a violation to this
section not to pay the recycling charge when due. In addition to any other fine
or penalty, which may be imposed for nonpayment of the recycling charge,
interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92; Am. Ord. 3094, passed 6-19-17)
§ 50.31 COLLECTION BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   From time of placement of recyclables at the curb for collection in
accordance with the terms hereof, the recyclables shall be and become the
property of the village's curbside recycling contractor. It shall be a
violation of this section for any person not authorized by the village to
collect or pick up or cause to be collected or picked up any such recyclable
items. Any and each such collection in violation hereof from one or more
locations shall constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 UNATTENDED DONATION/COLLECTION BOXES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to promote the health,
safety, and/or welfare of the public by providing minimum blight-related
performance standards for the operation of unattended donation/collection boxes
(UDCBs). This includes establishing criteria to ensure that material is not
allowed to accumulate outside of the UDCBs, the UDCBs remain free of blight,
UDCBs are maintained in sanitary conditions, and residents and/or users are
fully informed of those who operate the UDCBs so that they can be contacted if
there are any blight-related questions or concerns.
      (2)   Conflicting provisions. Where a conflict exists between the
regulations or requirements in this chapter and applicable regulations or
requirements contained in other chapters of the Village of Frankfort Code of
Ordinances, the applicable regulations or requirements of this chapter shall
prevail.
      (3)   Violation. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is declared to be prima facie evidence of an existing violation, a
continuing blight and a declared public nuisance and shall be abated by the
Building Official in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any person
in violation will be subject to administrative penalties, citations, civil
action and/or other legal remedies.
      (4)   Responsibility. The parcel owner and the UDCB Operator ("Operator")
have joint and several liability for blight-related conditions and/or
compliance with this chapter, including fees, administrative citations, civil
actions, and/or legal remedies relating to a UDCB. The parcel owner remains
liable for any violation of duties imposed by this chapter even if the parcel
owner has, by agreement, imposed on the operator the duty of complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Definitions. The following terms shall be defined as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
         ACCESSORY ACTIVITY. An activity that is incidental to, and customarily
associated with, a specified principal activity.
         AGENT. A person who is authorized by the parcel owner to act on their
behalf in filling out all required forms of the parcel pursuant to this
chapter. A person who is given general authorization to act on the behalf of a
parcel owner for various activities and transactions in regards to a property
may be considered an agent.
         BLIGHT or NUISANCE. A UDCB that is dilapidated, physically
deteriorating, unsafe, unsanitary, marked with graffiti or generally unkempt as
to constitute a threat or nuisance to the public.
         BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector and his or her successor in
title and his or her designees.
         DONATED/COLLECTED MATERIAL. Salvageable personal property, such as
clothing, shoes, books and household items that are collected for periodic
transport off-site for processing or redistribution or both.
         PARCEL OWNER or PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of real property on which a
UDCB is or is proposed to be placed.
         PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY. An activity that fulfills a primary function of an
establishment, institution, household, or other entity.
         PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A main building that is occupied a principal
activity.
         UDCB OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person or entity who utilizes or
maintains a UDCB to solicit donations/collections of salvageable personal
property.
         UDCB PERMIT. The Village of Frankfort's annually renewable permit
required to place, operate, maintain, or allow a UDCB within the Frankfort
village limits.
         UNATTENDED DONATION/COLLECTION BOXES or UDCBs. Unstaffed drop-off
boxes, containers, receptacles, or similar facility that accepts textiles,
shoes, books and/or other salvageable personal property items to be used by the
operator for distribution, resale, or recycling, but shall not include
furniture or other items too large to be contained within the UDCB. This term
does not include any collection bin that is owned by the property owner and is
used in connection with, or is an accessory to, the principal business of that
property.
         UNPERMITTED UDCB. A UDCB established either without a UDCB permit or
with a UDCB permit that was issued in error or on the basis of incorrect or
incomplete information supplied, or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule,
or regulation.
         VILLAGE. The Village of Frankfort, Will County, Illinois.
   (B)   UDCB permit requirement and process.
      (1)   Permit required for UDCBs.
         (a)   It is unlawful to place, operate, maintain or allow a UDCB on
any real property unless the parcel owner/agent and/or operator first obtain an
UDCB permit from the village. A separate UDCB permit is required for each UDCB.
         (b)   The UDCB permit applicant shall be the UDCB operator and the
permit may not be transferred, conveyed or otherwise assigned to another person
or entity.
         (c)   Decisions regarding UDCB permit applications shall be made by
the building official and the building official shall be considered the
investigating official acting for the Village Administrator.
      (2)   Application requirements. The UDCB permit application shall be made
on a form provided by the Village. All applications shall be valid for one
calendar year, filed with the Building Department and shall include:
         (a)   A signed agreement as provided by the village stating that the
operator will abide by all the processes and requirements described in this
chapter and an expedited code enforcement process;
         (b)   A non-refundable application fee in the amount of $100;
         (c)   A signed authorization from the parcel owner/agent to allow
placement of the UDCB on a form provided by the village;
         (d)   A signed acknowledgment of responsibility from the parcel owner/
agent and the operator for joint and several liability for violations of
conditions or regulations, and/or blight relating to the UDCB on a form
provided by the village;
         (e)   Proof of general liability insurance of at least $1,000,000
covering the applicant's UDCB and naming the village and the parcel owner as
additional insureds;
         (f)   For nonprofit operators, evidence that the nonprofit has been
registered as a non-profit organization with the State of Illinois;
         (g)   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone
number of the UDCB operator and parcel owner, including 24-hour contact
information;
         (h)   A vicinity map showing:
            1.   The proposed location of the UDCB; and
            2.   The distance between the site and all existing UDCBs within
1,000 feet of the proposed UDCB location;
         (i)   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties;
         (j)   A site plan containing:
            1.   Location and dimensions of all parcel boundaries;
            2.   Location of all buildings;
            3.   Proposed UDCB location;
            4.   Distance between the proposed UDCB and parcel lines buildings;
and
            5.   Location and dimension of all existing and proposed driveways,
garages, carports, parking spaces, maneuvering aisles, pavement and striping/
marking;
         (k)   Elevations showing the appearance, materials, and dimensions of
the UDCB, including the information required in this chapter to be placed on
the UDCB and notice sign;
         (l)   A description and/or diagram of the proposed locking mechanism
of the UDCB;
         (m)   A maintenance plan (including graffiti removal, pick-up
schedule, and litter and trash removal on and around the UDCB) that is
sufficient to prevent/eliminate blight-related conditions; and
      (3)   UDCB permit expiration and renewal.
         (a)   Unless renewed as described in division (b), below, each UDCB
permit shall expire and become null and void on December 31 of the year of
issuance.
         (b)   A UDCB operator may apply for a permit for the subsequent
calendar year by submitting an application to the Building Department by
December 1 of the current year. The UDCB permit renewal application shall be
made on a form provided by the village. All applications shall be filed with
the Building Department and shall include:
            1.   A signed agreement stating that the operator will abide by all
the processes and requirements described in this chapter and an expedited code
enforcement process;
            2.   Photographs of the existing UDCB;
            3.   A non-refundable$100 application fee;
            4.   A signed authorization from the parcel owner/agent to allow
placement of the UDCB;
            5.   A signed acknowledgment of responsibility from the parcel
owner/agent and the operator for joint and several liability for violations of
conditions or regulations, and/or blight relating to the UDCB;
            6.   Proof of general liability insurance of at least $1,000,000
covering the applicant's UDCB and naming the Village of Frankfort and the
parcel owner as additional insureds;
            7.   For nonprofit operators, evidence that the nonprofit has been
registered as a nonprofit organization with the state;
            8.   Name and telephone number of any entity that may share or
profit from items collected via the UDCB;
            9.   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone
number of the UDCB operator and parcel owner, including 24-hour contact
information; and
            10.   Any other reasonable information regarding time, place, and
manner of UDCB operation, placement, and/or maintenance that the building
official requires to evaluate the proposal consistent with the requirements of
this chapter.
         (c)   The Building Official shall either approve or deny the renewal
of a UDCB permit within 30 calendar days of receipt of the complete renewal
application and payment of the renewal fee.
         (d)   The Building Official shall approve the renewal of a UDCB permit
if he or she finds that no circumstances existed during the term of the UDCB
permit or existed at any time during the review of the application for renewal
that are inconsistent with any criteria required for approval of a new UDCB
permit as specified in §
50.32(B)(4) or that would justify the revocation of the UDCB Permit as
specified in §
50.32(D)(1)(g).
         (e)   See §
50.32(B)(6) for the appeal and petition processes for UDCB permit decisions,
including decisions regarding renewal.
      (4)   Requirements for the approval and renewal of a UDCB permit. The
Building Official shall not issue a UDCB permit or renewal unless each of the
following is true:
         (a)   The applicant has submitted a complete and accurate application
accompanied by the applicable fee;
         (b)   There are no open citations, unpaid fines or unresolved
violations or complaints related to any UDCB managed by the proposed operator;
         (c)   Any verified blight on the subject property has been abated and
any case of a complaint to the village regarding blighted conditions on the
subject property has been closed; and
         (d)   The proposal is consistent with all the requirements of this
chapter.
         (e)   For renewals, the site does not have a history of being an
attractive nuisance even if incidents of blight were abated. For the purpose of
this division, “history of attractive nuisance” means the UDCB received three
administrative citations in the previous 12 months.
      (5)   Time limit for final decision. The Building Official shall provide
a written decision regarding the placement of a UDCB within 30 calendar days of
the submission of a complete application for a UDCB permit.
      (6)   Appeal and petition processes.
         (a)   1.   Within ten calendar days after the date of a decision by
the Building Official on an application for a UDCB permit or a renewal of such,
an appeal from said decision must be filed by the applicant or any other
interested party. The appeal shall be submitted to Building Department at
Village Hall. In the event the last date of appeal falls on a weekend or
holiday when village offices are closed, the next date such offices are open
for business shall be the last date of appeal. Such appeal shall be made on a
form prescribed by the village and shall be filed with the Building Department.
The appeal application must be complete and shall state specifically wherein it
is claimed there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Building Official
or wherein his or her decision is not supported by the evidence in the record.
The appeal itself must raise each and every issue that is contested, along with
all the arguments and evidence in the record, which supports the basis of the
appeal.
            2.   If a hearing is held on the appeal, then during such hearing,
the appellant will be limited to issues and/or evidence previously raised in
the appeal itself. The appellant shall not be permitted to present any other
issues and/or oral, written and/or documentary evidence during the appeal
process.
            3.   In considering the appeal, the Village Administrator shall
determine whether the proposal conforms to the requirements of this chapter,
and may grant or deny a permit or require such changes in the proposed use or
impose such reasonable conditions of approval as are in its judgment necessary
to ensure conformity to said criteria. The written decision of the Village
Administrator shall be final and shall be made within 60 calendar days of the
submission of the appeal.
         (b)   1.   The applicant seeking placement of a UDCB which would be
affected by this chapter and who contends that the ordinance as applied to him
or her would be unlawful under and/or conflict with Federal, state, or local
law or regulation, must submit a petition to the Village Administrator
requesting relief from the ordinance. Petitions must be on the appeal form
provided by the village and submitted to Village Hall. The petition shall
identify the name and address of the applicant and property owner, the affected
application number, and shall state specifically and completely how the
ordinance as applied to him or her would be unlawful under and/or in conflict
with Federal, state, or local law or regulation. Failure to raise each and
every issue that is contested in the petition and provide appropriate
supporting evidence will be grounds to deny the petition.
            2.   If a hearing is held on the petition, then during such
hearing, the petitioner will be limited to issues and/or evidence previously
raised in the petition itself. The petitioner shall not be permitted to present
any other issues and/or oral, written and/or documentary evidence during the
petition process.
            3.   Within 60 calendar days of receipt of the completed petition,
the Village Administrator, or designee, shall mail to the applicant a written
determination accepting or rejecting the petition. The written decision of the
Village Administrator is final. The Village Administrator will utilize
reasonable time, place and manner criteria to determine if the petition should
be granted or denied consistent with this chapter. If the petition is granted,
the village may impose reasonable time, place and manner-related conditions on
the UDCB consistent with this chapter.
   (C)   Standards and requirements.
      (1)   Location. No more than one UDCB is permitted per parcel.
         (a)   UDCB's placed on separate, adjacent parcels, must be placed at
least 500 feet away from the nearest UDCB.
         (b)   UDCBs are only allowed to be located in the following zones,
which are designated in the zoning maps described in the Village of Frankfort
Zoning Ordinance:
            1.   B-1;
            2.   B-2; and
            3.   B-3.
         (c)   No UDCBs are permitted in any (AG), (E-R), (R) or (H) zones
unless placed on a governmentally owned or tax exempt property.
         (d)   A UDCB is only permitted on a lot that also contains a principal
building that contains at least one operating business.
         (e)   UDCBs will be placed on the parcel in a location where normal
deliveries are received.
         (f)   UDCBs are prohibited within any of the following locations:
            1.   The public right-of-way;
            2.   Twenty-five feet from any property line; or
            3.   Landscaping.
         (g)   UDCBs cannot block or impede access to:
            1.   Parking or driveways;
            2.   Pedestrian routes;
            3.   Emergency vehicle routes;
            4.   Building ingress and egress;
            5.   Required handicapped accessibility routes;
            6.   Required easements;
            7.   Trash enclosure areas or access to trash bins/trash
enclosures; or
            8.   Lot ingress and egress.
         (h)   UDCBs cannot impede the functioning of exhaust, ventilation, or
fire extinguishing
systems.
         (i)   The donation/collection area must be visible from the principal
building and be no more than ten feet from a continually operating light
source.
      (2)   Physical attributes.
         (a)   UDCBs shall:
            1.   Be fabricated of steel;
            2.   Be of the same color scheme as the adjacent parcel building;
            3.   Be placed on ground that is paved with cement or asphalt;
            4.   Have a collection opening that has a tamper-resistant locking
mechanism;
            5.   Not be more than 84 inches high, 72 inches wide and 72 inches
deep;
            6.   Not be electrically or hydraulically powered or otherwise
mechanized;
            7.   Not include any extra "attention getting" devices or products
prohibited in the Village of Frankfort sign ordinance;
            8.   Not be a fixture of the site or considered an improvement to
real property; and
            9.   Have the following information conspicuously displayed on at
least two-inch type visible from the front on the UDCB:
               A.   The name, address, 24-hour telephone number, and, if
available, the internet web address, and email address of the owner and
operator of the UDCB and the parcel owner/agent;
               B.   Address and parcel number of the site;
               C.   Instructions on the process to register a complaint
regarding the UDCB to the village code enforcement division, in substantially
the following form: “To register a complaint regarding this UDBC, contact the
Village of Frankfort at (815)469-2177 or http://www.villageoffrankfort.com/
contact with the permit number and location of the UDCB detailing the
complaint.”
               D.   The type of material that may be deposited;
               E.   A notice stating that no material shall be left outside the
UDCB;
               F.   The pickup schedule for the UDCB;
               G.   A village provided sticker that identifies the box as being
properly permitted by the village;
               H.   If the UDCB is owned by a nonprofit organization:
                  i.   A statement describing the charitable cause that will
benefit from the donations;
                  ii.   The Federal tax identification number of the nonprofit
organization operating the UDCB; and
                  iii.   The statement “This collection box is owned and
operated by a nonprofit organization.”
               I.   If the UDCB is owned by a for-profit entity:
                  i.   “This donation is not tax deductible;” and
                  ii.   “This collection box is owned and operated by a for-
profit organization.”
         (b)   The parcel containing the UDCB shall display an additional
standalone sign with text in at least two-inch typeface stating that no
material shall be left outside the UDCB. This sign shall be installed at a
visually conspicuous location within a radius of 20 feet from the UDCB.
      (3)   Maintenance.
         (a)   No blight shall be within 20 feet of the UDCB including, but not
limited to donation/collection overflow, litter, debris, and dumped material.
         (b)   UDCBs shall be maintained and in good working order. Items to be
repaired, removed, and/or abated include, but are not limited to graffiti,
removed or damaged signs and notifications, peeling paint, rust, and broken
collection operating mechanisms.
         (c)   UDCBs shall be serviced not less than weekly between 7:00 a.m.
and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekends. This
servicing includes the removal of donated/collected material and abatement of
the blight described this section.
         (d)   The operator shall maintain an active email address and a 24-
hour telephone service with recording capability for the public to register
complaints.
         (e)   UDCBs cannot be used for the collection of solid waste and/or
any hazardous materials.
      (4)   Liability. Applicants and/or owner(s) Agent shall maintain a
minimum general liability insurance of $2,000,000 for the duration of the
operation of a UDCB at each site, to cover any claims or losses due to the
placement, operation, or maintenance of the UDCB and naming the Village of
Frankfort as additional insured.
   (D)   Code enforcement.
      (1)   Compliance process.
         (a)   Whenever the Building Official determines that a UDCB with a
valid permit does not conform to any requirement in this chapter he/she shall
promptly notify the parcel owner/agent and UDCB operator through electronic
mail of the violation. The violation must be abated and proof of such submitted
to the village within three business days after receipt of such notification.
         (b)   If an unpermitted UDCB is not within a permissible geographic
area according to division (C)(1), then both the UDCB and any blight within 20
feet of the UDCB shall be removed within 72 hours after the parcel owner/agent
and UDCB operator is notified of the violation.
         (c)   If an unpermitted UDCB is within a permissible geographic area
according to division (C)(1) then any blight within 20 feet of the site shall
be removed and the parcel owner/agent and/or operator shall either:
            1.   Apply for all UDCB permits required by this chapter; or
            2.   Remove the UDCB. This requirement shall be met within 72 hours
after the parcel owner/agent and/or UDCB operators are notified of the
violation.
         (d)   Each day, after the three business day cure period, that a
violation of a requirement of this chapter is not abated constitutes a new and
separate offense.
         (e)   The operation or maintenance of an unpermitted UDCB may be
abated or summarily abated by the village in any manner by this code or
otherwise by law for the abatement of public nuisances. All expenses incurred
by the village in connection with any action to abate a public nuisance will be
chargeable to the persons creating, causing, committing, or maintaining the
public nuisance and is an express condition of the permit.
         (f)   The village shall issue administration citations against a
parcel owner and/or operator who fails to timely resolve a violation or
verified compliance is not sent to the village showing the resolution of the
violation relating to a UDCB after notice. The village shall issue
administrative citations as follows:
            1.   Not more than $150 for the first citation after the 72-hour
abatement period;
            2.   Not more than $250 for the second citation after the 72-hour
abatement period; and
            3.   Not more than $500 for the third and each subsequent citation
after the 72-hour abatement period.
         (g)   The daily administrative citations described in division (B)(1)
shall continue until either the violation is abated or the UDCB is removed.
Removal of the UDCB shall be at the expense of the parcel owner and/or
operator. Any UDCBs removed shall also have any of its UDCB permits revoked.
         (h)   The property owner and operator are jointly and severally liable
and responsible for all fees, administrative citations, and compliance with the
regulations.
         (i)   A party aggrieved by a final administrative decision of the
village, after an appeal has been made pursuant to division (B)(6), may seek
judicial review of the administrative decision pursuant to the Illinois Code of
Civil Procedure within the time frame pursuant to those code sections.
         (j)   All notices for unpermitted UDCBs shall be in writing and
personally delivered to the parcel owner/agent and UDCB operator or by
depositing such notice in the United States mail, postage paid, and addressed
to the parcel owner/agent at the owner(s) last known address as it appears on
the last Will County equalized assessments roll, as well as placed on the UDCB
itself. If the village cannot reasonably determine the name and/or address of
the unpermitted UDCB operators, placing the written notice on the UDCB itself
constitutes sufficient notice. All notices regarding permitted UDCBs shall be
through electronic mail.
         (k)   Administrative citations established in this chapter are in
addition to any other administrative or legal remedy which may be pursued by
the village to address violations identified in this chapter.
   (E)   Noticing procedure for removal. Notice required for removal.
      (1)   Any UDCB scheduled to be removed by either the village or the
operator shall clearly display a notice on the UDCB with at least four-inch
type visible from the front on the UDCB that states the following text in
capital letters: “THIS BOX WILL BE REMOVED BY” followed by the date the UDCB is
scheduled for removal. The entity who is removing the UDCB is responsible for
placement of the notice on the UDCB.
      (2)   For UDCBs required to be removed by the village due to an abatement
order, the notice shall be posted immediately after the village notifies the
operator and/or parcel owner that the facility is required to be removed.
      (3)   Notice that a UDCB will be removed by the owner or operator shall
be posted at least 14 calendar days prior to the removal of the facility.
(Ord. 3086, passed 4-24-17) Penalty, see §
50.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.40 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL SERVICE CHARGES.
   The resident/occupant for each single family; duplex family; multi-family;
designated commercial business; or any other customer to which service is
rendered by the village's scavenger services agreement shall pay the
residential collection rate per month as established in the village's scavenger
services agreement for collection and disposal of solid waste (hereafter
referred to as “garbage charge”). The garbage charge shall be billed to the
resident/occupant with their monthly village utility bill and shall be due and
payable concurrent with said utility bill. It shall be a violation to this
section not to pay the garbage charge when due. In addition to any other fine
or penalty, which may be imposed for nonpayment of the recycling charge,
interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Ord. 1382, passed 6-15-92; Am. Ord. 3094, passed 6-19-17) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.06, or piling, placing, or sweeping refuse, as above defined, upon any
sidewalks, parkway, street, alley, or curb contrary to the manner above
described shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 869, passed 7-15-74)
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
50.15 through
50.18 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 1300, passed 6-18-90)
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
50.25 through
50.31 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $750.
      (2)   The penalties prescribed in this division are in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any other rights, remedies and penalties which the Village may
otherwise seek to impose and may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 1371, passed 3-16-92)
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
50.40 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $750, with each day such offense occurs constituting a separate
offense. This penalty is not in lieu of any other rights, remedies and
penalties which the village may otherwise seek to impose and may be available
at law, or in equity.
(Ord. 1382, passed 6-15-92)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
   (E)   In addition to the suspension or revocation provided for herein, any
business or person found to have violated any provision of §
50.32 shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense and not less than
$500 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2697, passed 2-22-11)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Waterworks System
   
51.001   Connection to metered water service required
   
51.002   Responsibilities of property owners
   
51.003   Protection of Waterworks from damage
   
51.004   Requirements for utilizing the Village Public Utility System
Building Water Mains and Connections
   
51.015   Permit required for uncovering public water main
   
51.016   Barricades and lights to guard excavations; restoration of property
   
51.017   Connection to Water System required before issuance of building permit
   
51.018   Construction, operation and maintenance of private wells
   
51.019   Water meter required
Waterworks System Administration and Charges
   
51.025   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.026   Waterworks service charges
   
51.027   Billing
   
51.028   Termination of service
   
51.029   Notice; lien for delinquent bills
   
51.030   Appeals
   
51.031   Revenues
   
51.032   Accounts
   
51.033   Violations
Water Shortages
   
51.040   Restrictions on water use
   
51.041   Notice
   
51.042   Exceptions
   
51.043   Enforcement
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.050   Installation of approved backflow prevention device
   
51.051   Private, auxiliary or emergency water supplies; method of connection
and use to be approved
   
51.052   Surveys and investigations
   
51.053   Right of entry
   
51.054   Discontinuance of water service to property in violation
   
51.055   Responsibility for cost of clean-up after contamination
   
51.056   Regulations incorporated by reference
Sewer System
   
51.060   Definitions
   
51.061   Use of public sewer required
   
51.062   Compliance with federal state and local standards
   
51.063   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
51.064   Depositing of objectionable waste prohibited
   
51.065   Unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet
   
51.066   Discharge of waste into sewer constructed as part of U.S. Route 45
improvement prohibited
   
51.067   Discharge of waste into sewer constructed as part of U.S. Route 30
improvements prohibited.
Private Sewage System
   
51.075   Private sewage disposal
   
51.076   Connection required to public sewer system when available
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.085   Property owners responsible for connections
   
51.086   Permit required for uncovering public sewer
   
51.087   Barricades and lights to guard excavations
   
51.088   Sewer connection not to overload sewer system
   
51.089   Building sewer required; exceptions
   
51.090   Construction of building sewer to conform to plumbing code and other
applicable rules and regulations
   
51.091   Requirements for sewer connections
   
51.092   Applicant for permit required to notify when connection ready for
inspection
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.100   Discharge of unpolluted drainage water into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
51.101   Prohibited discharges
   
51.102   Village to remedy prohibited discharge
   
51.103   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.104   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.105   Control manhole; measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.106   Proof of compliance required
   
51.107   Special agreements for treatment permitted
Sewer System Administration and Charges
   
51.115   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.116   Wastewater service charges
   
51.117   Measurement of flow
   
51.118   Billing
   
51.119   Termination of service
   
51.120   Notice and foreclosure of lien for delinquent bills
   
51.121   Appeals
   
51.122   Revenues
   
51.123   Accounts
   
51.124   Access to records
   
51.125   Violations
Central Service Charge
   
51.135   Tap-on and connection fees
   
51.136   Determination of fees
   
51.137   Payment
   
51.138   Sources and uses of funds
 
   
51.999   Penalty
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
§ 51.001 CONNECTION TO METERED WATER SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Every structure which requires the use of water and persons served by the
Village Water Supply System shall be separately and independently connected by
an approved metered water service lateral to the Village Waterworks where the
Waterworks and its water system adjoins the parcel of land on which the
structure is located or is adjacent to the street or alley which adjoins the
lot or parcel of land on which the structure is located or the lot or parcel is
within 1,000 feet of the Waterworks.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.002 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Property owners shall be responsible for the repair, maintenance, and
cost thereof for any water service line greater than one-inch diameter from
their building to the point of connection of the public water main.
   (B)   Property owners shall be responsible for making the connection to the
public water main from their building.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-6-96 ) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 PROTECTION OF WATERWORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the Waterworks. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 REQUIREMENTS FOR UTILIZING THE VILLAGE PUBLIC UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) herein, no property shall
interconnect, tap on to or in any manner utilize the Village Utility System,
unless the property is annexed to and within the corporate limits of the
village.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may allow property outside of the corporate
limits of the village to interconnect, tap and otherwise utilize the Village
Utility System if each of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The property cannot be annexed to the village because it is not,
nor with reasonable efforts could it be, contiguous to the village;
      (2)   The property owner(s), elector(s) and all other necessary parties
have executed an irrevocable petition to annex the property to the village,
which runs with the land and binds all successors; specifically allows the
village to annex the property without further notice, authorization or petition
upon it becoming contiguous to the village; and this petition is recorded in
the office of the County Recorder of Deeds where the property is located;
      (3)   The village determines it is in the best interest of the village to
annex the property upon it becoming contiguous;
      (4)   The property owners have entered into a pre-annexation agreement
acceptable to and approved by the corporate authorities of the village, which,
among other things, provides the property is subject to and will be planned,
designed, zoned, developed and constructed under, in conformance and subject to
all ordinances, codes, requirements, standards and regulations of the village;
      (5)   The Village Utility System has capacity and facilities sufficient
to serve the property;
      (6)   The property owner has paid the village all applicable fees and
costs.
   (C)   Property owned by governmental entities and/or taxing bodies is exempt
from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall require the village to improve, expand
or extend its Utility System to serve any property.
   (E)   Property covered by intergovernmental agreement between the village
and other municipalities is exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Recognizing the Village Utility System currently serves property
located outside of the village's corporate limits, this section shall not apply
to those unincorporated properties currently interconnected to and utilizing
the Village Utility System so long as the existing zoning and current actual
use of the those properties as of the effective date of this section is not
amended or in any way altered or changed.
   (G)   The owner of the property has the burden to establish by a
preponderance of the evidence the property's zoning and use as of the effective
date of this section.
(Ord. 2570, passed 3-16-09)
BUILDING WATER MAINS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.015 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR UNCOVERING PUBLIC WATER MAIN.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public water main or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS TO GUARD EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   All excavations for building water line installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE OF BUILDING
PERMIT.
   (A)   The village shall not issue any building permit for any lot or parcel
of land situated within the corporate limits of the village where Waterworks is
available as provided in § 51.01, unless the building plans and specifications
show connection to the Waterworks in compliance with §§
51.001 through
51.033.
   (B)   The applicant for the building water permit shall notify the village
when the building water line is ready for inspection and connection to the
public water main. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Director of Public Works or his representative.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Permitted non-potable sprinkling wells. Subject to regulations from
time to time adopted by the village, private non-potable sprinkling wells may
be drilled and operated on and for the exclusive use upon a single zoning lot
or tract under unified ownership for the exclusive purpose of providing non-
potable sprinkling water for landscape vegetation such as grass, trees, shrubs
and flowers planted and growing upon a lot or parcel, which landscape is not
for sale or resale.
   (B)   Regulations. The village, from time to time, may adopt, amend and
promulgate regulations governing the drilling, use and operation of the
sprinkling wells permitted under this section which may include, among other
things, permit fees, applications, well standards, water use restrictions and/
or prohibitions, revocation or denial of permits, inspections and abandonment.
Concurrent with this section and incorporated in this section, the village
adopts and promulgates the Regulations for Private Water Wells, which are
available for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk. Any
revisions to the regulations are incorporated in this section.
   (C)   Existing wells. Any existing well which was constructed pursuant to
applicable laws and regulations prior to the effective date of this section may
continue to exist for the purposes authorized in this section, if such well, in
every respect, conforms to the terms of this section and other applicable
ordinances, statutes and regulations. Existing wells shall be subject to an
initial and annual inspection.
(Ord. 1396, passed 10-19-92; Am. Ord. 1506, passed 4-3-95) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 51.019 WATER METER REQUIRED.
   (A)   In order to measure the volume of water used by the customers on the
Village Waterworks System, each user shall be required to provide a span in the
water line immediately as it enters the structure to provide space for the
village to install a water meter. This inside water meter shall be deemed the
master meter for all billing purposes.
   (B)   (1)   To efficiently read the water meters for billing purposes, each
user shall be required to provide a ½-inch plastic or conduit line from the
inside meter location to and through the exterior wall at a location near the
area of the gas and/or electric meters for the purpose of running the remote
meter wire. The village shall install an outside radio read-type meter reading
device on each structure prior to occupancy.
      (2)   The cost of the radio read-type meter reading device is to be paid
at the time of building permit issuance and shall be equal to the cost paid by
the village for the actual meter.
   (C)   All existing users of the Village Waterworks System as of May 1, 2000,
who do not have an outside radio read-type meter reading device on their
property may, at the discretion of the Utility Department, be required to have
one installed by the village prior to within 120 days written notice from the
village that the outside radio read-type meter device is required. In such
cases, the actual costs associated with the installation of the outside radio
read-type meter reading device, which may require a new meter, shall be borne
entirely by Frankfort Utility.
   (D)   Failure of the users of the Village Waterworks System to have an
outside radio read-type meter reading device installed upon written notice by
the village and in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall result
in a surcharge of $10 per billing period being added to the bill, until such
time as the outside radio read-type meter reading device is installed.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1793, passed 4-3-00) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATERWORKS ADMINISTRATION AND CHARGES
§ 51.025 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works and any duly authorized employees of the
village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, and repair of
water meters in accordance with the provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.033.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A), the Director of Public Works or any duly authorized employees
of the village shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify the company
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works and any duly authorized employees of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the Waterworks lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.026 WATERWORKS SERVICE CHARGES.
 
UTILITY RATE (COMBINED WATER/SEWER RATES) PER 1,000 GALLONS OF WATER USED ON A
MONTHLY BASIS
Existing Rates    Proposed Rate Increases
      April May   May 1,    Sept. 1, May 1,    Sept. 1, May 1,    May 1,    May 1,
      1,    1,    2017      2017     2018      2018     2019      2020      2021
      2016  2016
                  2%                 2%                 2%        2%        2%
Water $3.79 $3.90 increase, N/a      increase, N/a      increase, increase, increase,
                  plus CPI           plus CPI           plus CPI  plus CPI  plus CPI
                  2%        Increase 2%        Increase 2%        2%        2%
Sewer $4.29 $4.85 increase, of $1.59 increase, of $1.59 increase, increase, increase,
                  plus CPI           plus CPI           plus CPI  plus CPI  plus CPI
Notes:
1.   The most recent Illinois Extension Limitation factor (CPI increase) as
determined by the Will County Clerk’s Office per the regulations set forth in the
Property Tax Extension Limitation Law, ILCS Ch. 35, Act 200, § 18-185.
2.   Formula is: Previous Rate + 2% + CPI = New Base Rate.
 
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1476, passed 9-19-94; Am. Ord. 1570,
passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 1680, passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord. 1860, passed 6-4-01; Am.
Ord. 2005, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2676, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord. 3011, passed
2-16-16; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 6-19-17)
§ 51.027 BILLING.
   (A)   Rates or charges for service shall be billed and be payable monthly.
The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises
and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are
jointly and severally liable therefore to the village.
   (B)   All water bills are due and payable within 20 calendar days after
being sent out. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid on the
21st day.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.028 TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   If charges for utility services are not paid in full within 45
calendar days from the date of billing or if the utility customer is in
violation of any village regulation or applicable ordinance relating to water
services, the village utility customer shall be notified of the village's
intent to terminate water service prior to any such termination.
   (B)   The pre-termination notice required herein shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The code provision or ordinance being violated and how such
violation can be corrected, if applicable;
      (2)   The number of days the account is in arrears;
      (3)   The balance due, including late charges as of the notice date;
      (4)   That the utility customer may contact a representative of the
village and request an informal hearing to resolve disputes as to the
correctness of bills, arrears and/or violations of applicable provisions of
this code or other ordinances of the village prior to termination of services.
      (5)   The name, business address and telephone number of the village
representative to contact to schedule such informal hearing.
      (6)   That unless the customer contacts the appropriate village
representative in writing within ten days of receipt of the pre-termination
notice requesting an informal hearing on the correctness of the utility bill
his or her water service will be terminated.
      (7)   The date on or after which termination will be effected.
   (C)   An informal hearing shall be held, upon written request of the utility
customer, within ten days after written request is made to the Village
Administrator or his or her designee, sometimes collectively referred to as
“Village Representative.” The purpose of the informal hearing is to allow the
utility customer an opportunity to present information regarding the
correctness of that customer's utility bill.
   (D)   If the Village Representative finds merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness, no action shall be take to
terminate service and the user's bill shall be adjusted accordingly by the
Village Representative with such adjusted bill to be paid by the utility
customer within seven days of notification of the Village Representative's
determination.
   (E)   In the event a notice of disconnection hearing is requested by a
residential utility customer wherein the customer established that he or she or
a member of his or her immediate family residing with the customer has a pre-
existing life threatening medical condition certified in writing by a medical
doctor licensed by the state and/or the customer establishes that he or she is
financially unable to pay the utility charge in full or part, the Village
Representative may allow service continuance so long as the utility customer
makes satisfactory financial arrangements to pay past and future utility
charges.
   (F)   If the Village Representative finds no merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness, he or she shall communicate this
decision to the utility customer within ten days after the informal hearing.
The utility customer shall further be notified that termination of service will
be effected if all utility bills are not paid in full or violations corrected
within seven days after receipt of such decision without further notice.
   (G)   If service is terminated as herein provided, no utility service shall
be reinstated until such time as all violations are corrected and/or all
outstanding utility bills are paid in full in addition to the payment of a $45
reinstatement fee.
   (H)   All utility customers shall timely pay the undisputed portion of the
utility bill.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, any notice regarding disconnection
of service shall be given to the utility customer in the account name and
address indicated in the village utility customer records. Any notices required
by this section to the utility customer may be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested sufficient postage prepaid or by leaving a copy of the notice
personally with the utility customer, or by leaving a copy of the notice at the
utility customer's billing address with some person over 13 years of age at
such address and mailing a copy of the notice by U.S. mail addressed to the
utility customer at the billing address. For the purpose of this section,
notice transmitted through United States mail shall be deemed received by the
utility customer on the date shown by the post office stamp cancellation mark
stamped on the envelope.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-90)
§ 51.029 NOTICE; LIEN FOR DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Notice of delinquency. Whenever a bill for water service remains
unpaid for 60 days for monthly service after it has been rendered, the Village
Attorney shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village claims a
lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period
covered by the bill.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien.  Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in
the name of the village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid 60 days on a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Village Attorney to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills.
   (D)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the village has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of 45 days for a monthly bill.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.030 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in § 51.26 shall be made available to a user within 10 days of receipt
of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computations thereof shall be remedied by the Village Board, at the earliest
regularly scheduled Board meeting, after notification of a formal written
appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.031 REVENUES.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the Waterworks System
shall be deposited in the Waterworks Account of the Sewer and Water General
Fund. All such revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer
separate and apart from all other funds of the village. The Village Treasurer
shall receive all such revenues from the Waterworks System and all other funds
and moneys incident to the operation of such system and shall deposit the same
in the account of the fund designated as the “Sewer and Water General Fund of
the Village of Frankfort.” The Treasurer shall administer such fund in every
respect in the manner provided by statute of the “Revised Cities and Villages
Act,” effective January, 1942.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.032 ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the Waterworks System, and at
regular annual intervals, shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
Waterworks System.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.033 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.033 shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.001 through
51.033 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing not more than ten days for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for water as a result of any violation of any provision of §§
51.001 through
51.033.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATER SHORTAGES
§ 51.040 RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USE.
   The use of water within the village shall be subject to various use
restrictions established by the Village President when it has been determined
by the Village President that an adequate supply of potable water may not be
available within the village for drinking and health-related purposes, fire
protection, and other emergency uses. In making the determination that an
adequate supply of water may not be available within the village, the Village
President shall consider the amount of water consumed within the village, any
increase or decrease in the amount of water consumption, the capacity of the
pumping system used to provide water within the village, and the adequacy of
the village's supply of potable water.
(Ord. 1222, passed 6-20-88)
§ 51.041 NOTICES.
   Notice of such water use restriction shall be disseminated through
reasonable communication media throughout the village including, but not
limited to, posting notice of the same at various public buildings within the
village, including the Village Hall. Such notice shall include a description of
the restriction provisions in effect.
(Ord. 1222, passed 6-20-88)
§ 51.042 EXCEPTIONS. 
   The Village President shall have the authority to permit exceptions to the
water use restrictions and to permit water usage in cases when necessary to
maintain health and sanitation, or such other appropriate circumstances as from
time to time arise.
(Ord. 1222, passed 6-20-88)
§ 51.043 ENFORCEMENT.
   All public works employees and police officers of the village shall in
connection with his duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1222, passed 6-20-88)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.050 INSTALLATION OF APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance
with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If in accordance with
the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgement of the Director of Public Works,
an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the
public water supply system, the Director of Public Works will give notice to
the water customer to install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, and local regulations.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88)
§ 51.051 PRIVATE, AUXILIARY OR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLIES; METHOD OF CONNECTION
AND USE TO BE APPROVED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the village shall enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Director of Public Works, and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.052 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
year, or as often as the Director of Public Works shall deem necessary. Records
of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five years.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88)
§ 51.053 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Director
of Public Works or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Director of Public Works any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Director of Public Works, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.054 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE TO PROPERTY IN VIOLATION.
   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter is known to exist, and to take danger of contamination of the public
water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter, and until a reconnection fee of
(substantial amount of money) is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection
with verbal notice can be effected when the Director of Public Works is assured
that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Director
of Public Works or the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply. Neither the Public Water Supply, the Director of Public
Works or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury,
damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's
water supply in accordance with the terms of this subchapter whether or not
said termination was with or without notice.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88)
§ 51.055 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF CLEAN-UP AFTER CONTAMINATION.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88)
§ 51.056 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations on cross-connection control adopted by Ordinance 1232,
passed September 6, 1988 and attached thereto shall be incorporated by
reference as part of this chapter as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1232, passed 9-6-88)
SEWER SYSTEM
§ 51.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this §§
51.060 through
51.125, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Utility Department Supervisor.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL CHARGE. A charge levied on users in the East Hickory Creek Service
Area for acquiring of Prestwick Utilities, Inc.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a “control manhole” is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   CVE. The village.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA.  Defined in any applicable NPDES Permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 466 et seq.) as amended
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II — Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   GREASE TRAP SLUDGE. The solid, lighter-than-water fraction of wastewaters
from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking, or consumption of foods
that are discharged to a pretreatment unit or device commonly referred to as a
grease trap. The principal components of grease trap sludge are fats, oils, and
greases.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from the development, recovery or processing of
any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
or has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste; or has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as
defined in standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or is
found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the issuance of the
NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have
significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that
treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER or mg/l. A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it
is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
Section 402 of the Federal Act.
   PERSON.  Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing .17 pounds of BOD and .19 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT.  The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow condition normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village
Sanitary or Combined Sewer System, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
“replacement.”
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with “wastewater.”
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE.  The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of low exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of lows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
state of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER.  A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE.  The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §51.116.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE.  The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CLASS. The type of user “residential,” “institutional/governmental,”
commercial,” or “industrial” as defined below:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with Federal, State, and local governments.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with “waste treatment plant” or “wastewater treatment plant” or
“pollution control plant.”
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-6-96)
§ 51.061 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   The owner of all the houses, building, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer of the village, is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly to the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of §§ 51.060 through 51.125 prior to occupancy.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL STATE AND LOCAL STANDARDS.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with Federal Standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent State and local standards.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.064 DEPOSITING OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.065 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE TO ANY NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with provisions of §§
51.060 through
51.125.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 DISCHARGE OF WASTE INTO SEWER CONSTRUCTED AS PART OF U.S. ROUTE 45
IMPROVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall discharge any
sanitary waste or industrial wastewater into any storm sewer or drainage
facility constructed as part of the U.S. Route 45 improvement, the limits of
the improvement being between Colorado Avenue and south of Nebraska Street, of
which passes through the village.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall discharge any
sanitary waste or industrial wastewater into any storm sewer or drainage
facility constructed as part of the U.S. Route 45 improvement, the limits of
improvement being at the EJ & E Railroad underpass, which passes through the
village.
(Ord. 1328, passed 10-15-90; Am. Ord. 1661, passed 10-20-97; Am. Ord. 2524,
passed 10-20-08)
§ 51.067 DISCHARGE OF WASTE INTO SEWER CONSTRUCTED AS PART OF U.S. ROUTE 30
IMPROVEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall discharge any sanitary
waste or industrial wastewater into any storm sewer or drainage facility
constructed as part of the U.S. Route 30 at improvement project from Wolf Road
to IL Route 43, a portion of which passes through the Village of Frankfort.
(Ord. 2499, passed 8-18-08; Am. Ord. 2704, passed 3-21-11)
PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM
§ 51.075 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.061(B), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Will County
Health Department. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the Will County Health Department, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as deemed
necessary by the Will County Health Department. A permit and inspection fee
shall be paid to the Will County Health Department, 800 Exchange Avenue,
University Park, Illinois, 60466, at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Will
County Health Department. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Will County Health Department when the work is ready for final inspection,
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of written notice by the Will County Health
Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 150,000 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076 CONNECTION REQUIRED TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM WHEN AVAILABLE.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.061(B), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with §§
51.060 through
51.125, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village
or the Will County Health Department.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Will
County Health Department.
   (D)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.085 PROPERTY OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Property owners shall be responsible for making the connection to the
sewer line from their building.
   (B)   Property owners shall be responsible for the repair, maintenance, and
cost thereof of the sanitary sewer service line from their building to the
point of connection to the public sewer main.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR UNCOVERING PUBLIC SEWER.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the village.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS TO GUARD EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 SEWER CONNECTION NOT TO OVERLOAD SEWER SYSTEM.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.089 BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test provided by the applicant and
approved by the village to meet all requirements of §§
51.060 through
51.125.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.090 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING SEWER TO CONFORM TO PLUMBING CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village.
   (B)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, “Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9,” and “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois,” latest edition, shall apply.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All sewer service mains hereafter connected into the sewer system of
the Village of Frankfort shall be set at grade of not more than 3½ feet below
the exterior finished ground grade at the place where the sewer service main
enters the foundation or footing of the building which is serviced by such
sewer service main.
   (B)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, “Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9,” and “Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.” All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092 APPLICANT FOR PERMIT REQUIRED TO NOTIFY WHEN CONNECTION READY FOR
INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Director of Public
Works or his representative.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.100 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE WATER INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the village to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.101 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
village will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F (65°
C).
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° F (0° C) and
150° F (65° C).
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of ¾ horsepower
(0.76 HP metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
village.
      (4)    Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations.
      (10)   Heavy metals. Any waste at any time containing more than the
maximum concentration in milligrams per liter of any substance shown in the
following table:
Arsenic (total)         0.50
Barium (total)          5.00
Cadmium (total)         0.30
Chromium (total triv.)  3.00
Chromium (total hexav.) 0.60
Copper (total)          2.00
Cyanide                 0.50
Iron (total)            5.00
Lead (total)            0.25
Manganese (total)       2.00
Nickel (total)          2.00
Phenols                 0.60
Selenium (total)        2.00
Silver (total)          2.00
Silver (total)          0.10
Zinc (total)            2.00
 
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
51.060.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.102 VILLAGE TO REMEDY PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.101, or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in
40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978 and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment
of the village may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
51.107.
   (B)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.103 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the village, and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   No person may cause or allow the discharge, deposit, or disposal of
any grease trap sludge into a treatment works or into any sewer tributary to a
treatment works, except pursuant to the express authorization, by ordinance or
license, of the owner of the treatment works and the owner of the sewer.
Nothing in this division (B) shall be construed to require treatment works or
sewer owners to establish any ordinances or programs to provide such
authorization.
   (C)   No person may cause or allow the transportation or acceptance of
grease trap sludge for rendering, storage, treatment, or disposal away from the
site where the sludge was generated, unless the sludge is accompanied by a
shipping paper containing, at a minimum, the information prescribed in division
(D) of this section. No specific form of shipping paper is required by this
section, but a form may be prescribed pursuant to division (F) below.
   (D)   Each shipping paper shall contain at a minimum the following
information:
      (1)   The name and telephone number of the generator of the sludge, the
street address of the grease trap, the volume of grease trap sludge removed,
the legible signature of an authorized representative of the generator, and the
date of the sludge removal.
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the sludge transporter,
an acknowledgment of receipt of the sludge, the legible signature of an
authorized representative of the transporter, and the date of sludge
collection.
      (3)   The name, street address, and telephone number of the facility
receiving the sludge, an acknowledgment of such receipt, the legible signature
of an authorized representative of the receiving facility, and the date of
sludge receipt.
   (E)   The grease trap sludge generator, transporter, and management facility
operator shall each retain a copy of the shipping paper for a minimum of two
years, and shall produce such documents upon request of the Agency, or the
owner of the affected treatment works.
   (F)   The owner of a treatment works is authorized, but not required, to
establish a program to register or license the collection and transportation of
a grease trap sludge from grease traps within the owner's jurisdiction, and to
charge a fee therefor. Further, the owner of a treatment works is authorized,
but not required, to develop and require the use of a particular form of
shipping paper for use in effecting the requirement of division (C) of this
section.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.104 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.105 CONTROL MANHOLE; MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§
51.060 through
51.125 shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of “IEPA
Division of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods,” and shall be determined
at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls, whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.106 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with §§
51.060 through
51.125 and any special conditions for discharge established by the village or
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a
manner as is prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.107 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS FOR TREATMENT PERMITTED.
   No statement contained in this §§
51.060 through
51.125 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment,
subject to payment therefore, in accordance with §§
51.061,
51.064 and
51.065, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance
with federal and state guidelines for User Charge System.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
SEWER SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION AND CHARGES
§ 51.115 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of
the village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency [IEPA], and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency [U.S. EPA], bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of §§
51.060 through
51.125. The Director of Public Works or his representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the Director of Public Works or duly
authorized employees of the village, the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village of Frankfort
employees and the village shall indemnify the company against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operating, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as
required in §
51.105.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of
the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.116 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges. The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
village shall consist of a basic user charge for the operation and maintenance
plus replacement, administration, and debt service requirements of the system.
The basic user charge for all customers shall be $2.68/1,000 gallons of use as
recorded by the water meter of the customers of the village wastewater system
during each billing period from June 1, 2001, to April 30, 2002. The basic user
charge shall be $2.82/1,000 gallons of use as recorded by the water meter of
the customers of the village wastewater system during each billing period from
May 1, 2002, to April 30, 2003. With the fiscal year beginning May 1, 2002, and
each year thereafter, the village wastewater service charge shall be increased
annually by the percentage of the most recent Illinois Tax Extension as
determined by the Will County Clerk’s Office per the regulations set for in the
Property Tax Extension Limitation Law, ILCS Ch. 35, Act 200, § 18-185.
Furthermore, the village shall evaluate the actual costs for operation,
maintenance, and debt service of the wastewater system to ensure the basic user
charge is adequate to satisfy all immediate and long term capital cost
obligations of the system.
   (B)   East Hickory Creek Service Area. In addition, a capital charge shall
be charged to those users of the system located within the East Hickory Creek
Service area. The East Hickory Creek Service area is defined as those areas
receiving Frankfort Waterworks Services in Richton and Monee Townships;
Sections 1, 2, 11, 12, and the East one half of Sections 3 and 10 in Green
Garden Township; Sections 11, 12, 13, 14, 23, 24, 25, 26, 35, 36, and the east
one-half of Section 10 in Frankfort Township. The physical location of the
customer's water meter shall be the basis for determining if the customer is
within the East Hickory Creek Hickory Creek Service area. The wastewater
capital charge to the East Basin customers shall be as follows:
 
Time Period                            Capital Charge per 1,000 Gallons of
Effective date of this ordinance       Usage or Fraction Thereof
(Ordinance No. 1570) through April 30, $1.23
1997
May 1, 1997 through April 30, 1998     0.92
May 1, 1998 through April 30, 1999     0.62
May 1, 1999 through April 30, 2000     0.31
From May 1, 2000                       The capital charge shall be eliminated
 
   (C)   Basic user charge and capital charge.  
      (1)   The basic user charge and capital charge shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
         (a)   A five day, 20° C BOD of 200 mg/l.
         (b)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 220 mg/l.
      (2)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (220 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 220 mg/
l concentration for BOD and SS respectively. Division (C)(3) below specifies
the procedure to compute a surcharge.
      (3)   (a)   Surcharge rate. The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall
be as follows:
            1.   Per lb. of BOD:   $ .10
            2.   Per lb. of SS:      .11
         (b)   Computation of surcharge. The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the village and shall
be binding as a basis for surcharges.
            1.   BOD Surcharge:
            2.   SS Surcharge:
   (D)   Minimum charges. In the event that customer's actual use is less than
2,000 gal. in any given billing period, the customer will be charged for 2,000
gal. of use for that period.
   (E)   Adequacy of the wastewater service charge. The adequacy of the
wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not less often than annually, by
certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit report. The
wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in
local capital costs and/or operation and maintenance costs including
replacement costs.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 1680, passed
1-20-98; Am. Ord. 1860, passed 6-4-01)
§ 51.117 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
one thousand gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the Public Waterworks
System, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged by any user may
be required by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.118 BILLING.
   (A)   The rates or charges for service shall be billed and be payable
monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   All sewer bills are due and payable within 20 calendar days after
being sent out. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid on the
21st day.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.119 TERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   If charges for utility services are not paid in full within 45
calendar days from the date of billing or if the utility customer is in
violation of any village regulation or applicable ordinance relating to sewer
service, the village utility customer shall be notified of the village's intent
to terminate sewer and/or water service prior to any such termination.
   (B)   The pre-termination notice required herein shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The code provision or ordinance being violated and how such
violation can be corrected, if applicable;
      (2)   The number of days the account is in arrears;
      (3)   The balance due, including late charges as of the notice date;
      (4)   That the utility customer may contact a representative of the
village and request an informal hearing to resolve disputes as to the
correctness of bills, arrears, and/or violations of applicable provisions of
this code or other ordinances of the village prior to termination of services.
      (5)   The name, business address, and telephone number of the village
representative to contact to schedule such informal hearing.
      (6)   That unless the customer contacts the appropriate village
representative in writing within ten days of receipt of the pre-termination
notice requesting an informal hearing on the correctness of the utility bill
his or her sewer service will be terminated.
      (7)   The date on or after which termination will be effected.
   (C)   An informal hearing shall be held, upon written request of the utility
customer, within ten days after written request is made to the Village
Administrator or his or her designee, sometimes collectively referred to as
“Village Representative.” The purpose of the informal hearing is to allow the
utility customer an opportunity to present information regarding the
correctness of that customer's utility bill.
   (D)   If the Village Representative finds merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness, no action shall be take to
terminate service and the user's bill shall be adjusted accordingly by the
Village Representative with such adjusted bill to be paid by the utility
customer within seven days of notification of the Village Representative's
determination.
   (E)   In the event a notice of disconnection hearing is requested by a
residential utility customer wherein the customer established that he or she or
a member of his or her immediate family residing with the customer has a pre-
existing life threatening medical condition certified in writing by a medical
doctor licensed by the state and/or the customer establishes that he or she is
financially unable to pay the utility charge in full or part, the Village
Representative may allow service continuance so long as the utility customer
makes satisfactory financial arrangements to pay past and future utility
charges.
   (F)   If the Village Representative finds no merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness, he or she shall communicate this
decision to the utility customer within ten days after the informal hearing.
The utility customer shall further be notified that termination of service will
be effected if all utility bills are not paid in full or violations corrected
within seven days after receipt of such decision without further notice.
   (G)   If service is terminated as herein provided, no utility service shall
be reinstated until such time as all violations are corrected and/or all
outstanding utility bills are paid in full in addition to the payment of a $45
reinstatement fee.
   (H)   All utility customers shall timely pay the undisputed portion of the
utility bill.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, any notice regarding disconnection
of service shall be given to the utility customer in the account name and
address indicated in the village utility customer records. Any notices required
by this section to the utility customer may be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested sufficient postage prepaid or by leaving a copy of the notice
personally with the utility customer, or by leaving a copy of the notice at the
utility customer's billing address with some person over 13 years of age at
such address and mailing a copy of the notice by U.S. mail addressed to the
utility customer at the billing address. For the purpose of this section,
notice transmitted through United States mail shall be deemed received by the
utility customer on the date shown by the post office stamp cancellation mark
stamped on the envelope.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 11-5-90)
§ 51.120 NOTICE; LIEN FOR DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Notice of delinquency. Whenever a bill for sewer service remains
unpaid for 60 days for monthly service after it has been rendered, the Village
Attorney shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village claims a
lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period
covered by the bill.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in
the name of the village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid 60 days on a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Village Attorney to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills.
   (D)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the village has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of 45 days for a monthly bill.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.121 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §
51.116 shall be made available to a user within 10 days of receipt of a written
request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations
thereof shall be remedied by the Village Board at the earliest regular
scheduled Village Board meetings, after notification of a formal written appeal
outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.122 REVENUES.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage system
shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewer and Water General Fund.
All such revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate
and apart from all other funds of the village. The Village Treasurer shall
receive all such revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds and
moneys incident to the operation of such system and shall deposit the same in
the account of the fund designated as the “Sewer and Water General Fund of the
village.” The Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by statute of the “Revised Cities and Villages Act,” effective
January, 1942.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.123 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year.
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year.
      (3)   Debt Service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system.
      (5)   Number of non-metered users.
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.124 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Illinois EPA or the Federal EPA or its authorized representative shall
have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village which
are applicable to the Sewer System or user charges or industrial cost recovery
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the Special and General
Conditions of any State Grant and the Federal Regulations and conditions of the
federal grant.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.125 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.060 through
51.125 shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this §§
51.060 through
51.125 except §
51.063, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of §§
51.060 through
51.125.
(Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
CENTRAL SERVICE CHARGE
§ 51.135 TAP-ON AND CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Basic tap-on and/or connection fees. The basic tap-on and/or
connection fees to be charged those persons who hereafter request that a
connection to the village water and sewer systems be made are as follows:
Type of Connection Water Sewer Combined
Type of Connection                                    Water  Sewer  Combined
Single-family unit                                    $2,000 $2,000 $4,000
Two-family unit                                       4,000  4,000  8,000
Multi-family unit (Three units or more):
One bdrm. unit                                        1,000  1,000  2,000
Two bdrm. unit                                        1,500  1,500  3,000
Three bdrm. unit                                      2,000  2,000  4,000
Institutional, commercial, and industrial connections 2,250  2,250  4,500
Note: Plus a charge based upon the quantity and nature of waste discharged
to the sewer system and the quantity of water required.
 
   (B)   Fees described above in division (A) include:
 
Type of Connection    User Install Sewer User Install Water User Install Meter
                      Tap                Tap
Each residential unit 6"                 1"                 1"
Each institutional,
commercial, and       6"                 1"                 1"
industrial unit
Note: Any additional taps or oversizing requested by the user or required by
the village shall be approved by the Director of Public Works. All additional
costs as determined by the Director of Public Works shall be the
responsibility of the user.
 
   (C)   If only one service is available, either water or sewer, the fee will
be for that service only. Any such service shall be deemed available whenever a
service line capable of serving the user is within 1,000 feet of the user's
property.
   (D)   Capacity expansion fee. The capacity expansion fee to be charged to
those persons who hereafter request that the village provide adequate and
customary water and waste water utility service to them be made as follows:
      (1)   The village has determined, based on the most readily available
information and projections, that a capacity expansion fee of $863 per
population equivalent (PE) bears a rational relationship to necessary costs of
expansion of its system, and such amount is specifically and uniquely
attributable to the request for water and waste water utility service,
considering the present and future anticipated needs of the area.
   (E)   Meter fee handling charge. For the handling, inspection and connection
of the meter to the outside reader, the village shall charge a fee which shall
be paid at time of meter purchase.
      (1)   The village has determined that the meter fee handling charge shall
be $50 per meter.
(Ord. 1313, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1481, passed 11-7-94; Am. Ord. 1680,
passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord. 1898, passed 6-3-02; Ord. 2629, passed 12-7-09)
§ 51.136 DETERMINATION OF FEES.
   (A)   The charges for fees under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
made by the Director of Public Works prior to village execution and approval of
application for water and/or sewer permits to the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   Additional fees to be charged under the provisions of §
51.135 shall be determined by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1313, passed 7-16-90)
§ 51.137 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Payment of fees described and required under the terms of this
subchapter shall be paid to the village as outlined below:
      (1)   Basic tap-on and or connection fees. One-half the total fee at the
time of final plat approval by the Village Board, or in case where final plat
approval has already been granted at the time of the passage of this
subchapter, or in cases where final plat approval is not required, then at the
time of the request for connection; and
      (2)   One-half the fee, full balance thereof, at the receipt of
notification of water and/or sewer permit application by the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Capacity expansion fee. The total fee at the time of final plat
approval by the Village Board. The amount of the fees shall be calculated prior
to final plat approval and shall be based on the Village Engineer's
determination of the number of population equivalents from the most recently
ascertainable data.
   (C)   All fees shall be paid to the village at the village hall. Failure to
pay required fees as outlined above shall result in the village initiating a
full and complete stop order.
(Ord. 1313, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1481, passed 11-7-94))
§ 51.138 SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All funds derived from the basic tap-on and/or connection fees shall
be deposited in the sewer and water extension fund and shall be used to expand
and improve sewer and water mains, replace distribution and collection systems
necessary to maintain and bring adequate service to its users subject only to
the provisions of any applicable bond ordinances.
   (B)   All funds derived from the capacity expansion fees shall be deposited
in the sewer and water extension fund and shall be used only in specific future
construction, expansion and/or improvement of the village water and/or sewer
system for increasing capacity to service new customers subject only to the
provisions of any applicable bond ordinances.
   (C)   In the sewer and water extension fund, two fund balance reserve
accounts shall be set up, one for each of the two natures of the sources of
funds: i.e. one to be called “Reserved for Ordinance 1313, Article I, Section 3
(A) Uses,” and one to be called “Reserved for Ordinance 1313, Article I,
Section 3(B) Uses,” with no account for unreserved fund balance.
   (D)   As of the effective date of enactment of this section, a balance sheet
for this fund shall be rendered by the Village Chief Financial Officer, and any
fund balance shall be reconstituted as a balance in the account “Reserved for
Ordinance 1313, Article I, Section 3(A) Uses.”
   (E)   Interest income in the sewer and water extension fund for a given
fiscal year shall be apportioned to the two aforementioned accounts
proportionally, based on each balance before the apportionment.
   (F)   Any inter-fund transfers-in, of monies surplused from other utility
funds of the village, beyond those funds working capital needs, shall be
apportioned to the two aforementioned accounts proportionally, based on each
balance before the transfers-in.
   (G)   In regard to all amounts to be recognized in the sewer and water
extension fund, the Village Engineer will specify to the Village Treasurer the
portion of each to be posted to each of the two aforementioned accounts. The
Village Engineer will do likewise as to the proceeds from any sale of utility
assets.
(Ord. 1313, passed 7-16-90; Am. Ord. 1481, passed 11-7-94)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.125 for which no other penalty is set forth shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.033(B) and §
51.125(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $750 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1311, passed 7-16-90; Ord. 1312, passed 7-16-90)
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of §
51.018 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each violation.
Each day upon which a violation exists shall be deemed a separate violation. In
addition, the village shall have any other remedy available to it at law or
equity.
(Ord. 1396, passed 10-19-92; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 52: CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose; scope
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Annual registration required
Permits
   
52.10   Permit required; applications and fees
   
52.11   Action on permit applications
   
52.12   Effect of permit
   
52.13   Revised permit drawings
   
52.14   Insurance
   
52.15   Indemnification
   
52.16   Security
   
52.17   Permit suspension and revocation
   
52.18   Change of ownership
Other Requirements
   
52.30   General construction standards
   
52.31   Traffic control
   
52.32   Location of facilities
   
52.33   Construction methods and materials
   
52.34   Vegetation control
   
52.35   Removal, relocation or modification of facilities
   
52.36   Cleanup and restoration
   
52.37   Maintenance; emergencies
Administration
   
52.50   Variances
   
52.51   Right to appeal
   
52.52   Notices
   
52.53   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way within the village and, in particular, the use
of the public ways and property by utilities by establishing uniform standards
and regulations to address issues presented by utility facilities, including
without limitation:
      (1)   Preventing interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Preventing the creation of visual and physical obstructions and
other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Preventing interference with the facilities and operations of the
village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protecting against environmental damage, including without
limitation damage to trees, from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protecting against increased stormwater run-off due to structures
and materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserving the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities
are installed;
      (7)   Preserving open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Preventing visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in
the rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assuring the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities’ locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. In the event of
any conflict with, or inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any franchise, license or similar agreement between the
village and any utility, the provisions of such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with federal and state laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions
and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so determines.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the village to
regulate its rights-of-way for fire protection or the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on
the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Code of Ordinances for the Village of Frankfort.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The village employee responsible for overseeing
the Department of Public Works or his or her designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes
a material adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the
soil but shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner
that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including track
and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-
of-way under this chapter, except those owned by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including without limitation explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including without limitation rural or urban roads, streets and alleys. HIGHWAY
includes without limitation all highway land and improvements, including
roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage structures, signs,
guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances necessary or convenient for
vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means,
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
52.10 and
52.11.
   PERSON. Includes without limitation individuals, partnerships, corporations,
LLCs and all other business associations.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including without limitation gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. Done within a period of time specified by the village. If no time
period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including without limitation utility easements, in which the village
has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall
not  include any real or personal village property that is not specifically
described in the previous sentence and shall not include village buildings,
fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are
situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
52.16.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes without limitation messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide-area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by him or
her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end
communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable
services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of
1984 (47 U.S.C. 521 et seq.) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. 76.1550 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in Section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Act of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Frankfort.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cuffing auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way, a 24-hour telephone number for each such person and evidence of insurance
as required in §
52.14, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
PERMITS
§ 52.10 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct any facility on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within any village right-of-way which (i)
changes the location of the facility, (ii) adds a new facility, (iii) disrupts
the right-of-way, or (iv) increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility beyond that already occupied on, over, above, along, under, across or
within the right-of-way, without first filing an application with the Village
Director of Public Works and obtaining a permit from the village therefor,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers’ premises
where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name, address and telephone and fax numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone and fax numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses, telephone and fax numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work, the dates on which the
work is to commence and be completed, the purposes and intent of the facility
and the uses to which the facility will be put. The scope and detail of such
description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of the work to be
performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or
impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including without limitation construction and hazardous
materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant. The intended
response shall include notification to the village and other utilities within
the affected right-of-way and shall promote protection of the safety and
convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC regulations for emergency
contingency plans constitutes compliance with this section unless the village
finds that additional information or assurances are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including without limitation the precise location of the work, the methods
proposed to protect existing facilities within the affected right-of-way, the
screening and landscaping proposed for any freestanding facilities and the
certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and specifications
comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
52.14;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
52.16;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
52.50);
      (10)   Acknowledgment of the obligation to indemnify the village as
required in §
52.15;
      (11)   Acknowledgment of the obligation to pay professional fees as
required in §
52.11;
      (12)   Acknowledgment of the obligation not to file, claim or permit to
be filed or claimed any lien or other encumbrance upon any right-of-way as
required in §
52.30;
      (13)   Acknowledgment of the potential penalties, including without
limitation payment of the village’s reasonable attorney’s fees, expert and
witness fees and costs of suit, provided in §
52.99;
      (14)   Evidence of village licenses for all contractors and
subcontractors as required in §
110.01 of this code;
      (15)   For any freestanding facility, the proposed screening and
landscape plan;
      (16)   A tree survey from a certified arborist, together with a proposed
plan for tree preservation or replacement. Replacement shall be accomplished by
planting one or more trees, the total trunk diameter of which is equivalent to
one and one-quarter times that of the replaced tree. The village may in its
discretion direct the allocation and placement of such replacement trees; and
      (17)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items as applicable to the specific utility that is
the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of new electric power, communications,
telecommunications, cable television service, video service or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, and any other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $100. No application fee is required
to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.11 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Director of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing and, at the
discretion of the village, may also be reviewed by the Village Engineer and/or
other professional consultants, with the cost of all reviews being borne by the
applicant. If the application does not conform to the requirements of all
applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Village Director
of Public Works shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the Village Director of Public Works is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, he or she shall issue a permit
therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the
applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village Director of Public
Works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 65, § 4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it
intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the
provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of
work requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The Village Director of Public Works
shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be
placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Village Director of Public Works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either (i) ten days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction, or (ii) 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
52.10, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.12 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village only authorizes a permittee to undertake certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than 180 days unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance at a pre-
construction meeting by the permittee and all major contractors and
subcontractors who will perform any work under the permit. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village, with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including without limitation the presence of other utility facilities in the
area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities,
use of rights-of-way by the public during construction and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.13 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
52.50. If the village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.14 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured, and naming the village and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in below in this division (A)(1)(a) and (b):
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with limits
not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. Prior to commencing any work in the right-of-way, the
utility shall provide copies of any of the policies and certificates of
coverage required by this section to the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after
receipt by the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of such
intent to cancel or not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A), or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D) above. A
utility that elects to self-insure shall, prior to commencing any work in the
right-of-way, provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements
required under division (A) above, such as evidence that the utility is a
“private self insurer” under the Workers Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the permittee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better
and of a class size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.15 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By using, occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a
utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and
its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, settlements, awards, damages, losses and expenses,
including without limitation reasonable attorney’s fees, expert and witness
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from, or caused or
contributed to by, or alleged to arise out of, result from, or alleged to have
been caused or contributed by, the utility’s use of, or presence on, the right
of way and/or negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act,
or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents,
contractors or subcontractors which are related to the right-of-way, including
without limitation the location, design, construction or maintenance of
facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or similar
agreement, provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct
or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees,
agents or representatives.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.16 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance and timely completion by the permittee of
all the requirements of this chapter, including without limitation restoration
as required in §
52.36;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter, including without
limitation any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash or an unconditional letter of
credit in a form acceptable to the village. Any letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division (B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without at least 120 days’
prior notice to the village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Director of Public Works, and may also
include reasonable directly-related costs that the village estimates are likely
to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations within the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Director
of Public Works may in the exercise of sound discretion allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee;
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund;
      (5)   Files, claims or permits to be filed or claimed any lien or
encumbrance upon any right-of way; or
      (6) Fails to complete its work in the right-of-way by the date indicated
in its application.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for the withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund and any and all accrued interest shall become the property of
the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs, losses or
damages incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided that
any amounts in excess of the costs, losses or damages shall be refunded to the
permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to the security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.17 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with any provision of this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans; or
      (5)   Permittee’s failure to complete its work in the right-of-way by the
date indicated in its application.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the notice, providing written proof of such correction
to the village within five days after receipt of the notice; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way and restore the
rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the village, providing written proof of
such removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the notice.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion and for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) above, the village or its
designee may, at the option of the village: (i) correct the deficiencies; (ii)
upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or (iii) after not less than 30 days’ notice to the
permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the
village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.18 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village in writing
no less than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and letters of credit. All required insurance coverage or
letters of credit must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon
transfer.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
OTHER REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.30 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code 545);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise
of sound judgment, which principles apply. Such decisions shall be final. If
requested, the Village Director of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future.
   (C)   No liens or encumbrances. Neither the licensee nor any of its
contractors or subcontractors shall file or claim any lien or other encumbrance
upon any right-of-way.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.31 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work, provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
52.37, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.32 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division
(A).
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Village Director of Public Works
determines that the proposed location will require the relocation or
displacement of any of the village’s utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the village’s utility
facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience, enjoyment and aesthetics of property owners
who adjoin said right-of-way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb, with a minimum distance of two feet behind the face of the curb,
where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable, with minimum distance of four feet outside the outer shoulder
line of the roadway, and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot of
the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet from and parallel to the right-of-way
line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet from the right-of-way line, and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot of the right-of-way line or as
near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot of the right-of-way line of
the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)    Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs
is provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility, other than a power or
communication facility, crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in 49 C.F.R. 192.707.
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   Any freestanding facility located within a right-of-way shall be
screened from view in accordance with a screening and landscaping plan approved
by the village.
   (F)   Above ground facilities. Above ground facilities may be installed only
if:
      (1)   The Village Director of Public Works determines that underground
installation is not technically feasible; and
      (2)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include without limitation self-supporting armless,
single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used whenever practicable;
the installation of additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include
without limitation underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the faculty;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being
traversed.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.33 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Director of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following pipe, and
the diameter of the anger shall not exceed the outside diameter of the
following pipe by more than one inch.
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger or
auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated to be preserved on the preservation plan approved by the
village shall be bored under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.”
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated to be preserved on the preservation plan approved
by the village.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.” When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Village Director of Public Works, the utility at its expense
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall only be permitted on a highway if that portion is closed to traffic and
if no other construction method is technically feasible. If a variance to the
limitation set forth in this division (A)(4) is permitted under §
52.50, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the Village Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement in kind shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be located in
the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village-approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if
(i) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair, and
(ii) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility, unless the village in its discretion
requires greater coverage:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                         MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                           30 inches
Communication, cable or video service    18 - 24 inches (determined by village)
lines
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 305 and the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not he needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities. Cable may be installed by trenching or
plowing, provided that special consideration is given to boring in order to
minimize damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads. If a crossing
is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall be provided between jacking
or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if (i) the crossing is
installed by the use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved method which
compress the earth to make the opening for cable installation, or (ii) the
installation is by the open trench method which is only permitted prior to
roadway construction. Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of a given year and March 15 of the following year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of such following year, weather
permitting, unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting,
utilities shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten
business days after placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village-
approved manner and in conformance with 49 C.F.R. 192, IDOT’s “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction” and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping, (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines. sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.”
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot in width beyond the
appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be provided by an
extension of the mounting pad or by heavy duty plastic or similar material
approved by the Village Director of Public Works. With the approval of the
Village Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Director of
Public Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public,
obstacles to right-of-way maintenance and damage to the right-of-way and other
property.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Director of Public
Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are those set forth in §
94.01 of this code.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities within the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the
presence and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities
within the rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village
will make its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of
identifying possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when
requested by the village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and
physically mark its underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends
and holidays, in accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage
Prevention Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 50 §§ 11 et seq.).
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.34 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities—compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations and with such local franchise or other agreement with the village
as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities—tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way, and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for and the issuance of a permit, in addition to
any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include a tree survey from a certified arborist and
assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent workers with
supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning practices. Tree
trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the interest of assuring
that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition. Replacement shall be accomplished by
planting one or more trees, the total trunk diameter of which is equivalent to
one and one-quarter times that of the replaced tree. The village may in its
discretion direct the allocation and placement of such replacement trees.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in this division (D), no utility shall spray,
inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation in the
village for any purpose, including without limitation the control of growth,
insects or disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Village Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.35 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the rights-of-way
whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary for the construction,
repair, maintenance or installation of any village improvement, or the
operations of the village, in or upon the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)    If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within 90 days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Director of
Public Works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, the abandoning
utility shall be deemed by giving notice of abandonment to the village to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.36 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf, terrain
and other property, all to the satisfaction of the village, within ten days
after any portion of the right-of-way is disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to
construction or maintenance by the utility. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Village Director of Public Works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the Village Director of Public Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.37 MAINTENANCE; EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
are available.
      (2)   The utility shall notify the Village Director of Public Works or
his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency as soon as possible,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village
of a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours
after an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.50 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Village Director
of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Director of Public Works
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Director of Public
Works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Director of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.51 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination,
including without limitation the denial of any variance, made by the Village
Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the Village Board, or such other board or commission as the
Board may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing
to the Village Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration
of the appeal at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring not
less than seven days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall
decide the appeal in a timely manner.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.52 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required to be sent to the village pursuant to this chapter
shall be hand-delivered or sent via first class mail to the Village President,
the Village Clerk, the Village Administrator and the Village Director of Public
Works at the following address: Village of Frankfort Administration Building
432 W. Nebraska Street Frankfort, Illinois 60423.
   (B)   Any notice required to be sent to a utility pursuant to this chapter
shall be hand-delivered or sent via first class mail to the contact person(s)
and address(es) identified in the utility’s annual registration.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.53 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code as well as any other remedies which
may be available in law or equity. If the village prevails in a suit to compel
compliance with this chapter, the defendant utility shall pay the village’s
costs, including without limitation reasonable attorney’s fees, expert and
witness fees and costs of suit.
(Ord. 2479, passed 6-16-08)
CHAPTER 53: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Reimbursement of village expenses
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COST. The estimated cost for the village to prepare and
maintain employee, equipment and materials cost estimates and maintain its
financial records associated with the reimbursable event. The village's
administrative cost is 20% of the village's total employee, equipment and
materials costs.
   EMPLOYEE COST. The product of the village's estimated per hour total
expenses associated with an employee including but not limited to compensation,
benefits and insurance multiplied by 1.5 and then multiplied by the number of
hours worked.
   EQUIPMENT COST.  The product of the village estimated total per hour expense
associated with the purchase, lease, operation, repair and maintenance of the
equipment or the village's contracted costs for equipment multiplied by 1.5 and
then multiplied by the number of hours involved.
   GOVERNMENTAL SERVICES. Police, security, public health, safety and welfare
related services performed or made available by, using village employees,
equipment, materials or village operated utilities as well as contracts entered
into by the village with a third party to provide services.
   MATERIAL COST. The product of actual cost to the village for purchase of any
materials used by the village or village contracted cost for materials in
providing governmental services during the reimbursable event multiplied by
1.5.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  
      (1)   Any corporation, company, limited liability company, association,
joint stock company, firm, partnership or individual, or other entity, their
lessees, trustees or receivers, appointed by any court whatsoever that owns,
controls, operates, manages or maintains within or proximate to the limits of
the Village of Frankfort, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois, directly or
indirectly, for any public use,
any plant, facilities, equipment, structures, devices or any type or
description property used or to be used in connection with the production,
storage, transmission, sale, delivery or furnishing of: natural gas, compressed
natural gas, propane gas, power, electricity, water, communications, telephone,
gas, cable television, internet, petroleum products or other utility that is
regulated by any governmental entity;
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLIC UTILITY does not include
utilities that are owned and operated by a political subdivision.
   REIMBURSABLE EVENT. Any occurrence where the Village of Frankfort provides
governmental services where village employees or village contracted services
cumulatively spend more than one hour which is attributable in whole or part to
installation, maintenance, repair or replacement of any to any real or personal
property of a public utility.
(Ord. 2701, passed 3-8-11)
§ 53.02 REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE EXPENSES.
   A public utility shall pay the Village of Frankfort in full within 30 days
from invoice for the total of all the village's employee, equipment, material
and administrative costs associated with the village providing governmental
services for a reimbursable event.
(Ord. 2701, passed 3-8-11)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to and not in lieu of any other civil remedies available to the
village under this chapter, any public utility found to have violated any
provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than $250 not more than $500,
with each day of violation constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 2701, passed 3-8-11)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   VILLAGE VEHICLE LICENSE
      
74.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES
      
75.   OPERATIONAL PROHIBITIONS
   Editor’s note: Ordinance No. 1731, passed January 16, 1999, adopted the
Village of Frankfort Traffic Code, marked Exhibit “A,” and repealed the
previous traffic regulations, Ordinance Nos. 1372, 571, 676, and 1136. The
current traffic regulations are on file in the village hall.
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
70.01   Illinois Vehicle Code adopted as Village of Frankfort Traffic Code
   
70.02   Village Attorney to conduct statutory summary suspension
   
70.03   Residential, urban and non-urban speed limits established throughout
the village
   
70.04   Vehicle Impoundment
§ 70.01 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED AS VILLAGE OF FRANKFORT TRAFFIC CODE.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code adopted as Village of Frankfort Traffic Code as
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as a
part of this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 1944, passed 12-2-02)
§ 70.02 VILLAGE ATTORNEY TO CONDUCT STATUTORY SUMMARY SUSPENSION.
   The Village Attorney shall represent the interests of the village and
conduct all statutory summary suspension/implied consent hearings pursuant to
Section 2-118.1 when the underlying complaint or citation giving rise to the
statutory summary suspension is charged as a local ordinance violation.
(Ord. 1944, passed 12-2-02)
§ 70.03 RESIDENTIAL, URBAN AND NON-URBAN SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED THROUGHOUT
THE VILLAGE.
   Unless otherwise established for specific streets by ordinance or unless
otherwise posted, the absolute maximum speed limits on all streets which are
within the corporate limits of the village and which are not under the
jurisdiction of the State of Illinois Department of Transportation or the
Illinois State Toll Highway Authority and for which any county or highway
commissioner does not have the maintenance responsibilities, are as follows:
   (A)   Residence District:   25 MPH
   (B)   Urban District:   30 MPH
   (C)   Non-Urban District   35 MPH
   (D)   However, the following specific streets shall have the following
maximum speed limits:
88th Avenue                Northbound and southbound from St. Francis    35 MPH
                           Road to LaPorte Road extended Way
116th Avenue               North/southbound from south of Laraway Road   35 MPH
                           to Steger Road
Colorado Avenue            Eastbound and westbound from U.S. Route 45 to 30 MPH
                           Pfeiffer Road
Crooked Creek Drive                                                     25 MPH
Crystal Lake               Northbound at 100 feet north of LaPorte Road  25 MPH
Crystal Lake Way           Southbound at 100 feet south of LaPorte Road  25 MPH
Elsner Road                Northbound and southbound from U.S. Route 30  35 MPH
                           to Nebraska Street
Heritage Drive             Northbound at 100 feet north of Laraway Road  25 MPH
Lakeview Estates Boulevard                                              25 MPH
Majestic Lane              At Laraway Road                               25 MPH
Nature Creek Circle                                                     25 MPH
Nebraska Street            Westbound at 100 feet west of Elsner Road     25 MPH
Pfeiffer Road              Fronting Waterstone subdivision               45 MPH
(88th Ave.)
Pfeiffer Road              Northbound and southbound from Colorado       30 MPH
                           Avenue to St. Francis Road
Pfeiffer Road              Northbound and southbound from U.S. Route 30  40 MPH
                           to Steger Road
Regency                    Northbound at 100 feet north of Laraway Road  25 MPH
St. Francis Road           Eastbound and westbound between Route 45 and  45 MPH
                           88th Avenue
Sauk Trail                 Eastbound 100 feet east of Center Road        35 MPH
Sauk Trail                 Westbound 100 feet west of Harlem Avenue      35 MPH
Sauk Trail                 Eastbound 100 feet east of Larch Road         45 MPH
Sauk Trail                 Westbound 100 feet west of Larch Road         35 MPH
Sauk Trail                 East and westbound between Center Road and    35 MPH
                           Pfeiffer Road
Scheer Road                North of Steger Road to Flagstone Turn        35 MPH
Steger Road                East/westbound from 116th Avenue to Scheer    35 MPH
                           Road
Steger Road                East/westbound from U.S. Route 45 to Scheer   35 MPH
                           Road
                           Eastbound and westbound from the west side of
                           the SE quarter of Section 37 in Frankfort
Steger Road                Township and extending east to Harlem Avenue  45 MPH
                           at the east side of Section 1 in Green Garden
                           Township
Stuenkel Road              Fronting Waterstone subdivision               45 MPH
Woodbridge Drive           Southbound at 100 feet south of U.S. Route 30 25 MPH
Wolf Road                  Northbound and southbound between Laraway and 35 MPH
                           Steger Roads
 
(Ord. 1944, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 1960, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2043, passed
1-5-04; Am. Ord. 2081, passed 5-17-04; Am. Ord. 2127, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord.
2193, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2199, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2319, passed 9-18-
06; Am. Ord. 2428, passed 11-19-07; Am. Ord. 2866, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord.
2929, passed 7-21-14; Am. Ord. 3247, passed 6-15-20)
§ 70.04 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
   (A)   Preamble. The preamble to Ordinance 2663 is adopted by reference into
this section as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116.
   IMPOUNDMENT OFFENSE. Any of the following offenses under the laws of the
state or analogous ordinances of the village:
      (1)   Driving a motor vehicle without a valid license (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 6-101).
      (2)   Driving while driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked, (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303) except a
person whose driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a motor vehicle
is suspended only for a violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 13 et seq., the
“Vehicle Emissions Inspection Law of 2005”;
      (3)   Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 11-204);
      (4)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-501);
      (5)   A person under 21 years of age driving a motor vehicle having
consumed or in possession of an alcoholic beverage;
      (6)   Reckless driving or aggravated reckless driving (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 11-503);
      (7)   Street racing (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-505);
      (8)   Driving a motor vehicle when a warrant is outstanding for the
arrest of the vehicle's driver;
      (9)   Driving 40 miles an hour or more in excess of applicable speed
limit (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.5);
      (10)   Indecent solicitation of a child (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6);
      (11)   Aggravated assault (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-2);
      (12)   Aggravated battery with a firearm (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05
(e));
      (13)   Aggravated battery of a child (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(b));
      (14)   Aggravated battery of a senior citizen (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-
3.05(d));
      (15)   Theft (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16-1)
      (16)   Retail theft, when the value of the merchandise exceeds $150.00
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16-25);
      (17)   Robbery (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-1);
      (18)   Armed robbery (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-2);
      (19)   Burglary (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-1);
      (20)   Residential burglary (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-3);
      (21)   Arson (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1);
      (22)   Aggravated arson (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1.1);
      (23)   Possession of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices (ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-2);
      (24)   Criminal damage to property in excess of $300.00 (ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 5, § 21-1);
      (25)   Any weapons related offenses under Article 24 of the Criminal Code
of 1961, including carrying a concealed weapon, discharge of firearms or air
guns, or prohibited possession of a weapon; or other weapons offenses under
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.
      (26)   Mob action (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1);
      (27)   Manufacture, deliver, or possess with intent to manufacture or
deliver a controlled substance (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401);
      (28)   Possession of a controlled or counterfeit substance or controlled
substance analog (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 402);
      (29)   Possession of cannabis (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4);
      (30)   Manufacture or delivery of cannabis (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5);
      (31)   Cannabis trafficking (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.1);
      (32)   Delivery of cannabis on school grounds (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §
5.2);
      (33)   Unauthorized production or possession of cannabis sativa plant
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 8);
      (34)   Possession of drug paraphernalia under the Drug Paraphernalia
Control Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, § 3.5); and
      (35)   Any offense which is classified as a felony.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Every vehicle or type of vehicle defined by
section 5/1-146 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146).
   OPERATOR. See DRIVER.
   OWNER(S). Owner(s) of record of a motor vehicle is based upon either the
vehicle's registered owner or certificate of title with the Secretary of State
or other applicable governmental office or agency if not registered in
Illinois.
   VEHICLE. See MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (C)   Impoundment of motor vehicles.
      (1)   Enforcement. The Police Department of the Village is hereby
authorized to implement, direct and supervise a program of vehicle seizure and
impoundment pursuant to the provisions of this section. The Police Department,
and any other duly authorized agents of the village, is hereby authorized to
seize and impound any vehicle eligible for impoundment pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   Impoundment required. Any motor vehicle used or involved in the
alleged commission of any impoundment offense shall be immediately seized and
impounded by the village.
      (3)   Seizure and impoundment. Whenever a police officer has probable
cause to believe that a motor vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section, the police officer shall provide for the towing of
the motor vehicle according to police department procedures. When the motor
vehicle is towed and so long as the person is present at the time of seizure,
the police officer shall notify the person who is found to be in control of the
motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, and/or the owner of the
vehicle, of the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner's right to
request a preliminary hearing. The motor vehicle shall be impounded pending the
completion of the hearings provided for in this section, unless the owner of
the motor vehicle posts with the village a cash bond as provided in this
section.
   (D)   Impoundment hearing process.
      (1)   Notice required. Within in two business days of impoundment, the
village shall give one written notice to the owner and driver of the motor
vehicle by personal hand delivery or by certified United States mail return-
receipt requested of:
         (a)   The impoundment of the vehicle;
         (b)   The amount of the village administrative fee and tow and daily
storage charge;
         (c)   The opportunity to post a bond and pay tow and storage charges
for release of the vehicle pending any hearing;
         (d)   The opportunity to request a preliminary hearing before the
Police Chief or the Chief's designee regarding the impoundment within five
business days of the date of the notice; and
         (e)   Notice of the date, time, and place of a final hearing regarding
the vehicle impoundment as provided in this section.
      (2)   Preliminary hearing. Within seven business days from the date of
the written notice, the owner of record and the driver of a vehicle seized and
impounded pursuant to this section may preliminarily appeal the impoundment.
This request shall be in writing, include the owner's name, address, phone
number, and email address, and be filed with the Chief of Police or the Chief's
designee, who shall conduct such a preliminary hearing within two business days
of receipt of the owner's request for the hearing. The Police Department will
give the owner notice by mail, telephone, email, or in person on the date and
time of this hearing. For purposes of this section, “business days” shall mean
Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. All interested persons shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the preliminary vehicle
impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing
and hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is the type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after
the hearing, the Chief or designee determines there is probable cause to
believe that the vehicle is subject to impoundment pursuant to this section,
the Chief of Police shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle as
provided in this section, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the
village a cash bond in the amount of $200 and pays all applicable towing and
storage fees as provided in this section. If the Chief of Police or designee
determines there is no such probable cause, the vehicle will be released to the
owner without penalty or payment of other fees including towing and storage
charges.
      (3)   Notice of final hearing. Unless the owner affirmatively waives the
right to a hearing, within two business days after a motor vehicle is seized
and impounded pursuant to this section, the village shall notify the owner of
record of that motor vehicle and the driver of the motor vehicle by either
personal service or certified mail, return-receipt requested of the date, time,
and location of a hearing that will be conducted pursuant to this section. The
notice shall state that towing and storage and administrative fees may be
imposed and, if determined to be owed by the owner, that a motor vehicle will
not be released until paid in full and, if not properly paid, the village may
lien, dispose of, and sell the motor vehicle as provided by law as well as in
accordance with applicable law. The hearing shall be scheduled not less than
seven days or more than 21 days from the date of the notice of hearing.
      (4)   Final hearing. The hearing shall be scheduled not less than seven
days or more than 21 days from the date of the notice of hearing.
      (5)   Appointment of hearing officer. The Village Administrator shall
appoint a hearing officer to preside over the final hearing, which hearing
officer must be an attorney in good standing and licensed to practice law in
the state.
      (6)   Waiver. By written waiver, the vehicle owner may wave all rights to
a final hearing and consent to pay all applicable fees and costs associated
with the vehicle seizure.
      (7)   Hearing officer duties. The hearing officer shall be empowered and
is hereby authorized and directed to:
         (a)   Preside over the final hearing as the adjudicator;
         (b)   Rule upon motions presented in the matter;
         (c)   Administer oaths;
         (d)   If otherwise permitted by law, issue subpoenas to secure the
attendance of witnesses and production of relevant documentation;
         (e)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the basis
of the impoundment or seizure;
         (f)   Make final determinations of violation liability;
         (g)   Assess fines and penalties as established by ordinance; and
         (h)   Provide for an accurate recordation of the final hearing.
      (8)   Opportunity to be heard. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the
hearing date, the hearing officer may, at the request of either party, direct
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. In a hearing on the propriety of
impoundment of a vehicle, any police report verified under oath or affirmed by
an officer participating in the arrest that to the best of the officer's
knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and in substance complete and (1) is
prepared in the performance of a law enforcement officer's duties and (2)
sufficiently describes the circumstances leading to the impoundment, shall be
admissible evidence of the vehicle owner's liability, unless admission is
rebutted by clear and convincing evidence. If, after the hearing, the hearing
officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was used in
connection with a violation set forth in this section, the hearing officer
shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable
to the village for an administrative fee in the amount of $$200 dollars and
requiring the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays the
administrative fee to the village and all towing and vehicle storage charges
due for the vehicle. If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village. If the
hearing officer finds that no such violation occurred, the hearing officer
shall order the immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond without
fees including towing and vehicle storage charges.
   (E)   Fees and charges.
      (1)   Administrative fee.
         (a)   There is assessed against the owner of any vehicle which has
been seized and impounded under village ordinance a village administrative fee
of $200.
         (b)   However, this administrative fee does not apply if:
            1.   The motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at that
time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24
hours after the theft was discovered; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the motor
vehicle; or
            3.   The motor vehicle is subject to successful forfeiture
proceedings under ILCS Ch. 725, Act 150, §§ 1 et seq., the Drug Asset
Forfeiture Procedure Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq., the Seizure and
Forfeiture of Vessels, Vehicles, and Aircraft Act, or state or federal
forfeiture laws. For purposes of this section, the “owner of record” or “owner”
of a motor vehicle is the record title holder as registered with the Secretary
of State.
      (2)   Determination of towing and storage charges. The cost for towing
and daily storage of a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall
be approved by the Village Administrator based upon the state tow charge
schedule for Chicagoland area for all tow companies authorized to tow for the
village Police Department.
      (3)   Towing and storage charges. There is assessed the owner of any
vehicle seized and impounded under village ordinance a towing fee and storage
fee in such amounts as from time to time determined under this section.
      (4)   Cash bond pending hearing. To release the vehicle pending the
hearing, the owner of an impounded motor vehicle may, after impoundment and
prior to final hearing, post with the village a $200 cash bond of United States
currency and pay all vehicle towing and storage charges. A condition of the
bond includes this amount can be applied in payment of any sums which may be
found to be due the village under this section or other ordinances.
      (5)   Payment. If an administrative or other fee or cost is imposed under
this section, such fee shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If
a cash bond has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied
to the fee. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a fee is imposed, the
village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise by law, a
vehicle shall continue to be impounded until all fees and costs are paid to the
village and any applicable towing and storage fees are paid in full, in which
case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the vehicle owner, or the
vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of [to satisfy] a judgment to enforce a
lien as provided by law. If the administrative and other applicable fees and
costs are not paid within 35 days after a notice of determination in the final
hearing, such fees and costs are due and payable as given to the parties. If
the vehicle owner who defaults by failing to appear at the hearing or otherwise
fails to pay all fees and costs imposed under this section, the vehicle shall
be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for
the disposition of unclaimed vehicles. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary, if the administrative fee and other applicable fees and costs are not
paid within 35 days after the expiration of time at which administrative review
of the hearing officer's determination may be sought, or within 30 days after
an action seeking administrative review has been resolved in favor of the
village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed vehicles under the state vehicle code.
   (F)   Possession of vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lien
holder, or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this section until the administrative fee or other fees
applicable under this section have been paid. However, whenever a person with a
lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or
she agrees in writing to refund to the village the amount of the net proceeds
of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lien holders of
record, not to exceed the administrative penalty, plus the applicable fees.
         (a)   The provisions of this section authorizing an owner or other
party to regain possession of a motor vehicle are not applicable when vehicle
or asset forfeiture proceedings have been instituted under state or federal
drug asset forfeiture laws or Article 36 of the Illinois Criminal Code (ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq.). In such case, the village shall not release,
or dispose of, the vehicle to any person except as consistent with those
proceedings.
         (b)   In the event the Police Department determines that the vehicle
impounded pursuant to this section should not be released to its owner or other
persons, or disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle, due to the need to retain the
vehicle as part of a continuing criminal investigation, or as evidence in a
crime, then the village shall notify the owner that the vehicle will be
retained and not released except as required by law.
      (2)   Vehicle possession.
         (a)   Except as provided otherwise in this section, a motor vehicle
shall continue to be impounded until:
            1.   The administrative fee, plus any applicable towing and storage
charges, are paid, in which case possession of the motor vehicle shall be given
to the person who is legally entitled to possess the motor vehicle; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy
a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law.
         (b)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lien
holder, or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a motor
vehicle impounded under this section until the civil fees applicable under this
section have been paid.
   (G)   Applicability. This section shall not replace or otherwise abrogate
any existing state or federal laws or village ordinance pertaining to vehicle
seizure and impoundment, and this administrative fee shall be in addition to
and not in lieu of any fines, costs, penalties, or fees that may be assessed by
a court for any of these offenses.
(rd. 2663, passed 11-1-10)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield intersections
      
III.   Speed limit signs
      
IV.   Right turn only signs
      
V.   Miscellaneous signs
      
VI.   No parking signs
      
VII.   Strictly enforced speed limit signs
      
VIII.   Overweight and overdimension permits
      
IX.   One way vehicular traffic
SCHEDULE I: STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections enumerated below are designated as stop intersections
within the corporate limits of the village. Establish and post a stop sign at
the following:
80th Avenue:                           Northbound at Sauk Trail
80th Avenue:                           North/Southbound at Laraway Road
80th Avenue:                           Southbound at Steger Road
84th Avenue:                           Southbound at North Avenue
88th Avenue:                           Southbound at St. Francis Road
94th Avenue:                           Northbound at U.S. Route 30
95th Avenue:                           Northbound at U.S. Route 30
108th Avenue:                          East and westbound at Nebraska Street
108th Avenue:                          Southbound at Nebraska Street
116th Avenue:                          Southbound at Steger Road
Abbey Court North:                     Southbound at Abbey Drive
Abbey Drive:                           South/Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Abbey Drive:                           Westbound at Abbey Woods clock tower
Aberdeen Road:                         Eastbound at Harlem Avenue
Aine Drive:                            Northbound at LaPorte Road
Anise Drive:                           Eastbound at 116th Avenue
Aine Drive:                            Westbound at Brendan Street
Anna Lane:                             North and southbound at Crooked Creek
                                       Drive
Arbour Walk Drive:                     Eastbound as Woodbridge Drive
Ash Street:                            Northbound at Kansas Street
Ash Street:                            Northbound at Nebraska Street
Ashford:                               Eastbound at Regency Drive
Ashford:                               Westbound at Heritage Drive
Ashley Court:                          Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Aspen Street:                          Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Aster Drive:                           Northbound at Stoll Road
Autumn Drive:                          Northbound at Stoll Road
Autumn Drive (east leg):               Southbound at Stoll Road
Autumn Drive (west leg):               Southbound at Stoll Road
Azure Drive:                           Southbound at Steger Road
Bankview Drive:                        Eastbound at U.S. Route 45
Bankview Drive:                        Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Bear Claw Lane:                        Southbound at Windsor Lane
Bear Claw Trail:                       Northbound at Pineview Lane
Berwick Drive:                         Northbound at Granton Place
Berwick Drive:                         Southbound at Pemrose Lane
Big Buck Trail:                        Westbound at 80th Avenue
Big Sable Point:                       Eastbound at Pfeiffer Road
Big Sable Point:                       Westbound at Grand Traverse Drive
Birchwood Road:                        Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Blarney Road:                          Southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Bowen Street-East:                     Eastbound at Lawndale Boulevard
Bowen Street-East:                     Westbound at White Street
Bowen Street-West:                     Eastbound at White Street
Brendan Street:                        Northbound at Waterview Trail
Brendan Street:                        Southbound at St. Francis Road
Brendan Street:                        Westbound at Waterview Trail
Breton Road:                           Northbound at Windy Hill Drive
Brittany Drive:                        Eastbound at Plank Trail Drive
Brittany Drive:                        Westbound at Plank Trail Drive
Brook Stone Court:                     Northbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Brookside Lane:                        Westbound at Elsner Road
Brookhaven Drive:                      East and westbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Brookhaven Drive:                      Eastbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Buffalo Wild Wings                     Southbound at Lincoln-Way Lane
Private Drive:                          
Butternut Trail:                       Northbound at Ironwood Drive
Butternut Trail:                       Southbound at U.S. Route 30
Callista Drive:                        Eastbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Cambridge Court:                       Eastbound at 94th Avenue
Cardinal Lake Drive:                   Eastbound at 108th Avenue
Caroline Court:                        Northbound at Sandalwood Drive
Caroline Court:                        Southbound at Sandalwood Drive
Carpenter Street:                      Southbound at Elwood Street
Center Road:                           Northbound at Nebraska Street
Charrington Drive:                     Eastbound at Ascott
Charrington Drive:                     Westbound at Ascott
Chestnut Court:                        Southbound at Nebraska Street
Chestnut Drive:                        Northbound at Nebraska Street
Chestnut Drive:                        Southbound at Sauk Trail
Cobblestone Trail:                     Southbound at Flagstone Turn
Colorado Avenue:                       Westbound at Hawthorne Road
Colorado Avenue:                       Eastbound at Pfeiffer Road
Commerce Parkway:                      Northbound at Laraway Road
Coquille Drive:                        Eastbound at 116th Avenue
Coquille Drive:                        Southbound at Azure Drive
Coriander Lane:                        Southbound at Sandalwood Drive
Corsair Road:                          Westbound at Center Road
Cottonwood Road:                       North/Southbound at Indiana Court
Cottonwood Road:                       Southbound at Lincoln Lane
Coventry Lane:                         Westbound at 78th Avenue
Crimson Lane:                          Northbound at Stoll Road
Crimson Lane:                          Southbound at Autumn Drive
Crooked Creek Drive:                   East and westbound at Lakeview Estates
                                       Boulevard
Crooked Creek Drive:                   Eastbound at 80th Avenue
Dublin Court:                          Southbound at York Drive
Dublin Way:                            Northbound at York Drive
Dublin Way:                            Southbound at Steger Road
Dunlap Reef Drive:                     Westbound at Michigan Island Drive
Dunlap Reef Drive:                     Eastbound at Grand Haven Drive
Eagle Bluff Court:                     Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Elm Street:                            North/Southbound at U.S. Route 30
Elsner Road:                           Eastbound/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Elsner Road:                           North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Elsner Road:                           Northbound at U.S. Route 30
Elwood Street:                         Eastbound at White Street
Emily Lane:                            Southbound at Sandalwood Drive (both
                                       intersections)
English Lane:                          Northbound at Windy Hill Drive
Escanaba Harbor Court:                 Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Evergreen Drive:                       Northbound at Nebraska Street
Evergreen Drive:                       Southbound at Sauk Trail
Falls View Way:                        Westbound at 116th Avenue
Fey Drive:                             Eastbound at Commerce Parkway
Field Stone Drive:                     Westbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Field Stone Drive:                     Southbound at Stanford Drive
Firenze Drive:                         Northbound at Siena Drive
Firenze Drive:                         Southbound at Steger Road
Flagstone Turn:                        Eastbound at 116th Avenue
Flagstone Turn:                        Westbound at Scheer Road
Folker’s Drive:                      Eastbound at Old Frankfort Way
Francisca Way:                         Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Frankfort Main:                        Westbound at U.S. Route 45
Franklin Avenue:                       East/Westbound at Grant Street
Franklin Avenue:                       Eastbound at Maple Street
Franklin Avenue:                       Westbound at Elsner Road
Franklin Avenue:                       Westbound at Locust Street
Georgetown Commons:                    Eastbound at Harlem Avenue
Ginger Drive:                          Northbound at Sandalwood Lane
Ginger Lane:                           Westbound at 92nd Avenue
Grand Haven Drive:                     Westbound at Holland Harbor Drive
Grand Haven Drive:                     Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Grand Traverse Drive:                  Northbound at St. Francis Road
Granite Drive:                         Northbound at Flagstone Turn
Grant Avenue:                          North/Southbound at Franklin Street
Granton Place:                         Southbound at Steger Road
Granton Place:                         Northbound at Mayfield Drive
Granton Place:                         Westbound at Granton Place
Granton Place:                         Eastbound at Harlem Avenue
Gray’s Reef Court:                   Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Gulfstream Road:                       Westbound at Center Road
Gull Island Court:                     Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Hackberry Road:                        Northbound at Cedar Lane
Hackberry Road:                        Southbound at U.S. Route 30
Hamilton Avenue:                       North/Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Hankins Court:                         Southbound at Mayfield Drive
Harlem Avenue:                         Within 200 to 300 feet of the Old Plank
                                       Road Trail crossing on Harlem Avenue
Hawthorne Road:                        East/Westbound at Cottonwood Road
Hawthorne Road:                        Northbound at Indiana Court
Hawthorne Road:                        Westbound at Hackberry Road
Heritage Drive:                        Eastbound/Westbound at Princeton Circle
Hickory Street:                        North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Hickory Street:                        Northbound at Kansas Street
High Stone Way (2 locations):          Northbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Highland Road:                         Southbound at Sauk Trail
Hinspeter Drive:                       Eastbound at Wolf Road
Hinspeter Drive:                       Westbound at Wolf Road
Hinspeter Drive:                       Northbound at Stoll Road
Hobby Avenue:                          North/Southbound at Meadow Avenue
Holland Harbor Drive:                  Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Holland Harbor Circle:                 Northbound at Colorado Avenue/Holland
                                       Harbor Drive
Holland Harbor Circle:                 Northbound at Colorado Avenue/Little
                                       Traverse Bay Drive
Hunt Club Drive:                       Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Hunters Trail:                         Northbound at Pineview Lane
Indiana Court:                         Eastbound at Hawthorne Road
Indiana Court:                         Westbound at Cedar Lane
Industry Avenue:                       Westbound at Center Road
Iowa Court:                            Eastbound at Elm Street
Ironwood Drive:                        Eastbound at Cedar Lane
Jasmine Drive:                         Northbound at Sandalwood Lane
Johnson Avenue:                        East/Westbound at Locust Street
Johnson Avenue:                        East/Westbound at Washington Parkway
Joshua Drive:                          North and southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Kansas Street:                         East/Westbound at Maple Street
Kansas Street:                         Eastbound at White Street
Katie Lane:                            North/southbound at Crooked Creek Drive
Katie Lane:                            Westbound at Lakeview Estates Boulevard
Kelsey Marie Lane:                     Northbound at Crooked Creek Drive
Lakeview Estates Boulevard:            East and westbound at Maddeline Lane
Lakeview Estates Boulevard:            Southbound at Steger Road
Lambrecht Drive:                       Northbound at Laraway Road
Lambrecht Drive:                       Southbound at Industry Avenue
Lancaster Drive:                       Westbound at Mayfield Drive
Lancaster Drive:                       Westbound at Windsor Drive
LaPorte Meadows Drive:                 Southbound and St. Francis Drive
LaPorte Road:                          Westbound at 88th Avenue
Larch Road:                            North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Larch Road:                            Southbound at Sauk Trail
LaSalle Bank Private Drive:            Northbound at Lincoln-Way Lane
Lavender Lane:                         Eastbound at Rosemary Road
Lawndale Boulevard:                    Southbound at East Bowen Street
Ledgestone Way:                        Northbound at Laraway Road
Ledgestone Way:                        Southbound at Flagstone Turn
Liatris Drive:                         East and westbound at Wildflower Drive
Lily Pad Lane:                         Northbound at Pineview Lane
Limestone Court:                       Northbound at Flagstone Turn
Lincoln Lane:                          East/Westbound at Hackberry Road
Lincoln Lane:                          Eastbound at Cedar Lane
Lincoln Lane:                          Westbound at Cedar Lane
                                       To the west of Garden Gate South
Lincoln-Way Lane:                      Development Drive entrance and north of
                                       Lincoln-Way High School
Linden Drive:                          North/Southbound at Sauk Trail
Linden Drive:                          Northbound at Nebraska Street
Linden Drive:                          Southbound at Pfaff Drive
Little Traverse Bay Drive:             Northbound at Grand Haven Drive
Little Traverse Bay Drive:             Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Locust Street:                         North/Southbound at Michigan Road
Locust Street:                         North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Locust Street:                         North/Southbound at U.S. Route 30
Locust Street:                         Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Luther Lane:                           Northbound at Nebraska Street
Luther Lane:                           Southbound at Sauk Trail
Maddeline Lane:                        North and southbound at Lakeview Estates
                                       Boulevard
Maddeline Lane:                        Northbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Maddeline Lane:                        Southbound at Crooked Creek Drive
Majestic Lane:                         Northbound at Laraway Road
Majestic Lane:                         Southbound at Dungarvan Road
Mallow Drive:                          Southbound at Milford Lane
Maple Street:                          East/Westbound at Elm Street
Maple Street:                          North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Maple Street:                          Northbound at Folker’s Drive
Maple Street:                          Southbound at U.S. Route 45
Marble Drive:                          Northbound at High Stone Way
Marble Drive:                          Southbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Marble Drive:                          Northbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Mayfield Drive:                        Northbound at Lancaster Drive
McDonald Lane:                         Eastbound at White Street
Meadow Avenue:                         Eastbound at Locust Street
Michigan Island Court:                 Southbound at Grand Haven Drive
Michigan Island Drive:                 Northbound at Grand Haven Drive
Michigan Island Drive:                 Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Michigan Road:                         East/Westbound at Locust Street
Michigan Road:                         Eastbound at Elm Street
Milford Lane:                          Southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Milford Lane:                          Westbound at Blarney Road
Misty Falls Lane:                      Eastbound at Merritton Road
Nature Creek Circle:                   Eastbound at 80th Avenue
Nebraska Court A:                      Southbound at Nebraska Street
Nebraska Street:                       East and westbound at Penny Lane
Nebraska Street:                       East/Westbound at Center Road
Nebraska Street:                       East/Westbound at Elsner Road
Nebraska Street:                       East/Westbound at Larch Road
Nebraska Street:                       East/Westbound at U.S. Route 45
Nebraska Street:                       Northbound/Southbound at Elsner Road
Nebraska Street:                       North and southbound at 108th Avenue
Nebraska Street:                       School drive entrance
Netherby Way:                          Westbound at 116th Avenue
North Avenue:                          Eastbound at 84th Avenue
North Pebble Lake Court:               Southbound at Flagstone Turn
North Pine Ridge Court:                Southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Oak Street:                            North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Oak Street:                            Northbound at Elwood Street
Oak Street:                            Southbound at Kansas Street
Oakfield Drive:                        North/Southbound at Northwoods Drive
Oakfield Drive:                        North/Southbound at Pineview Lane
Oakfield Drive:                        Northbound at Big Buck Trail
Oakton Avenue:                         Northbound at Heritage Drive
Oakton Avenue:                         Southbound at Princeton Circle
Ohio Road:                             Eastbound at Locust Street
Ohio Road:                             Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at 108th Avenue
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at Elsner Avenue
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at Maple Street
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at Oak Street
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at White Street
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at Larch Road
Old Plank Road Trail:                  East and westbound at Pfeiffer Road
Ontario Street:                        Westbound at Center Road
Open Space Parking Lot:                Westbound at Granton Place
(Adjacent to Lots 7 & 143)              
Oregon Street:                         East/Westbound at Hickory Street
Oregon Street:                         East/Westbound at Maple Street
Oregon Street:                         East/Westbound at Oak Street
Oregon Street:                         East/Westbound at Walnut Street
Oregon Street:                         Eastbound at Ash Street
Oregon Street:                         Westbound at Locust Street
Outlot H (2 locations adjacent to Pine Southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Ridge Drive):
Parkview Lane:                         North and southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Parkview Lane:                         Southbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Pembrook:                              Eastbound at Heritage Drive
Pemrose Lane:                          Northbound at Granton Place
Pemrose Lane:                          Southbound at Granton Place
Penny Lane:                            Eastbound at Elsner Road
Penny Lane:                            North and southbound at Nebraska Street
Penny Lane:                            Westbound at Nebraska Street
Pfaff Drive:                           Westbound at Center Road
Pfeiffer Road:                         North/Southbound at Sauk Trail
Pfeiffer Road:                         Northbound at St. Francis Road
Pfeiffer Road:                         Northbound at U.S. Route 30
Pfeiffer Road:                         Southbound at Laraway Road
Pine Ridge Drive:                      Eastbound at 80th Avenue
Pine Ridge Drive:                      North and southbound at Callista Drive
Pine Ridge Drive:                      East and westbound at High Stone Way
Pine Ridge Drive:                      Westbound at Pfeiffer Road
Pineview Lane:                         East/Westbound at Oakfield Drive
Pineview Lane:                         Westbound at 80th Avenue
Plank Trail Drive:                     Northbound at U.S. Rt. 30
Pleasant Hill Road:                    Eastbound at U.S. Route 45
Pleasant Hill Road:                    Westbound at Elsner Road
Port Washington Court:                 Westbound at Pfeiffer Road
Port Washington Drive:                 Eastbound at Pfeiffer Road
Prairie Trail Lane:                    Southbound at Pine Ridge Avenue
Prestwick Drive:                       Eastbound at Harlem Avenue
Princeton Circle:                      Northbound/Southbound at Heritage Drive
Princeton Circle:                      Westbound at Heritage Drive
Regency:                               Northbound at Princeton Circle
Regency Drive:                         Southbound at Laraway Road
Riverside Drive:                       Eastbound at Sara Springs Drive
Rosemary Road:                         Southbound at Sandalwood Drive
Sage Drive:                            Northbound at Sandalwood Lane
Sager Road:                            Eastbound at U.S. Route 45
Saint Andrews Way:                     Southbound at Sauk Trail
Sandalwood Lane:                       Eastbound at 116th Avenue
Sandalwood Lane:                       Westbound at 116th Avenue
Sangmeister Road:                      Eastbound at Center Road
Sangmeister Road:                      Westbound at U.S. Route 45
Sapphire Court:                        Eastbound at 116th Avenue
Sara Springs Drive:                    Eastbound at LaGrange Road
Sauk Trail:                            Center Road/4-Way Stop
Sauk Trail:                            East/Westbound at Pfeiffer Road
Sauk Trail:                            Westbound at Ash Street
Shetland Drive:                        Southbound at Sauk Trail
Siena Drive:                           Eastbound at Toscana Drive
Siena Drive:                           Westbound at Wolf Road
Smith Street:                          Southbound at Elwood Street
Somerset:                              Southbound at Heritage Drive
South Pebble Lake Court:               Northbound at Flagstone Turn
Southwick Drive:                       Eastbound at Harlem Avenue
Southwick Drive:                       Northbound at Laraway Road
Spruce Road:                           Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Stanford Drive:                        East and westbound at Maddeline Lane
Stanford Drive:                        Westbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Stanford Drive:                        Westbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Stanley Trail North (2 locations):     Southbound at Crooked Creek Drive
Stanley Trail South (2 locations):     Northbound at Crooked Creek Drive
Star Court:                            Eastbound at Brendan Street
St. Francis Road:                      East and westbound at 88th Avenue
Stoll Road:                            Eastbound at Wolf Road
Stoll Road:                            Westbound at Merritton Road
Stone Creek Boulevard (2 locations):   Northbound at Pine Ridge Drive
Stonebridge Road:                      Southbound at Ironwood Drive
Sun River Drive:                       Northbound at Coquille Drive
Sun River Drive:                       Southbound at Coquille Drive
Sutton Dale Lane:                      East entrance at Nebraska Street
Sutton Dale Lane:                      School parking lot entrance
Sutton Dale Lane:                      West entrance at Nebraska Street
Swallow Tail Lane:                     Eastbound at 108th Avenue
Swanstone Court:                       Northbound at Flagstone Turn
Sycamore Lane:                         Northbound at Nebraska Street
Sycamore Lane:                         Southbound at Sauk Trail
Tanglewood Lane:                       Southbound at Colorado Avenue
Thistlewood:                           Westbound at Hunter Woods Drive
Thyme Lane:                            Southbound at Sandalwood Drive
Torino Way:                            Southbound at Zermatt Drive, 200 feet
                                       east of 116th Avenue
Town Center:                           Three entrances onto Colorado Avenue
Trolley Barn:                          Exit onto Nebraska Street
Tuscany Drive:                         Northbound at Riverside Drive
Utah Street:                           East/Westbound at Hickory Street
Utah Street:                           East/Westbound at Maple Street
Utah Street:                           East/Westbound at Oak Street
Utah Street:                           Eastbound at Ash Street
Vail Drive:                            Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Venezia Drive:                         Eastbound at Toscana Drive
Venezia Drive:                         Westbound at Firenze Drive
Walnut Street:                         North/Southbound at Nebraska Street
Walnut Street:                         Northbound at Kansas Street
Walnut Ridge Court:                    North/Southbound at Butternut Circle
                                       South
Washington Parkway:                    North/Southbound at Johnson Avenue
Washington Parkway:                    Northbound at U.S. Route 30
Waterview Trail:                       Eastbound at LaPorte Road
Waterview Trail:                       Northbound at LaPorte Road
Waterview Trail:                       Southbound at St. Francis Road
Waterview Trail:                       Westbound at St. Francis Road
Waterview Trail:                       Westbound at Steger Road
White Street:                          At Nebraska Street/3-Way Stop
White Street:                          Northbound at U.S. Route 45
Wildflower Drive:                      Eastbound at LaPorte Meadows Drive
Wildflower Drive:                      Northbound at LaPorte Road
Williamsburg Trail:                    Eastbound at Elsner Road
Willow Street:                         Northbound at Colorado Avenue
Windsor Lane:                          Southbound at Mayfield Drive
Windy Hill Drive:                      Northbound at U.S. Route 30
Windy Hill Drive:                      Westbound at Pfeiffer Road
Wisconsin Road:                        Westbound at Locust Street
Wolf Road:                             Southbound at Steger Road
Wood Street:                           Eastbound at Tanglewood Lane
Woodbridge Drive:                      Northbound at U.S. Route 30
Woodland Lane:                         Eastbound at LaPorte Meadows Drive
York Court:                            Eastbound at Dublin Way
York Drive:                            Eastbound at Wolf Road
York Drive:                            Westbound at Dublin Way
Yorktown Road:                         Westbound at Brittany Drive
Zermatt Drive:                         Northbound at Zermatt Drive
Zermatt Drive:                         Westbound at 116th Avenue
 
(Ord. 1686, passed 2-2-98; Am. Ord. 1708, passed 7-20-98; Am. Ord. 1767, passed
12-6-99; Am. Ord. 1774, passed 1-18-00; Am. Ord. 1852, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord.
1871, passed 9-4-01; Am. Ord. 1886, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 1944, passed 12-2-
02; Am. Ord. 1960, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 1999, passed 7-21-03; Am. Ord. 2043,
passed 1-5-04; Am. Ord. 2048, passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2058, passed 3-2-04; Am.
Ord. 2117, passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 2120, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2127, passed
11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2167, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2193, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord.
2199, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2224, passed 10-17-05; Am. Ord. 2260, passed 1-
9-06; Am. Ord. 2294, passed 6-19-06; Am. Ord. 2310, passed 8-21-06; Am. Ord.
2340, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 2347, passed 1-8-07; Am. Ord. 2363, passed 2-
20-07; Am. Ord. 2386, passed 4-30-07; Am. Ord. 2458, passed 4-28-08; Am. Ord.
2481, passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord. 2649, passed 4-26-10; Am. Ord. 2753, passed 11-
21-11; Am. Ord. 2761, passed 12-19-11; Am. Ord. 2778, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord.
3100, passed 7-17-17; Am. Ord. 3129, passed 2-5-18; Am. Ord. 3244, passed 2-18-
20; Am. Ord. 3400, passed 5-15-23)
SCHEDULE II: YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections enumerated below are designated as yield intersections
within the corporate limits of the village. Establish and post a yield sign at
the following:
95th Avenue:           Southbound at Lawndale Court
Alana Lane:            Eastbound at Mary Drive
Alana Lane:            Westbound at Elise Boulevard
Amhearst Court:        Westbound at Misty Falls Lane
Anna Lane:             Northbound at Lakeview Estates Boulevard
Anna Lane:             Southbound at Katie Lane
Arbour Walk Drive:     Northbound at Raintree Lane
Aspen Street:          Southbound at Vail Street
Berwick Court          Westbound at Berwick Drive
Birchwood Road:        Northbound at Illinois Road
Birchwood Road:        Northbound at Tanglewood Lane
Birchwood Road:        Southbound at Meadow Avenue
Black Stone Court:     Westbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Blarney Road:          Northbound at Dungarvan Road
Blarney Road:          Southbound at Dungarvan Road
Blue Bird Lane:        Northbound at Nebraska Street
Blue Bird Lane:        Southbound at Nebraska Street
Blue Stone Court:      Westbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Boulder Court:         Westbound at Aspen Street
Box Elder:             Northbound at Ohio Road
Box Elder:             Southbound at Illinois Road
Breton Road:           Southbound at Farm View Drive
Brook Court:           Eastbound at Mary Drive
Brookhaven Lane:       Westbound at Parkview Lane
Callista Drive:        Westbound at Parkview Lane
Cambridge:             Eastbound/Westbound at 95th Avenue
Cappel Lane (East):    Northbound at Frankfort Main
Cappel Lane (West):    Northbound at Frankfort Main
Cardinal Lake Drive:   Westbound at Morning Dove Lane
Carpenter Street:      Northbound at Bowen Street
Catherine Court:       Westbound at Aine Drive
Cedar Lane:            Eastbound at Hackberry Road
Chilton Court:         Eastbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Chimay Court:          Westbound at Dublin Way
Church Court:          Southbound at Church Street
Church Street:         Southbound at Pfaff Drive
Church Street:         Westbound at Linden Drive
Cobblestone Trail:     Northbound at Sapphire Court
Concord Drive:         Northbound at Williamsburg Trail
Coquille Circle:       Southbound at Coquille Drive
Coriander Lane:        Northbound at Tea Tree Lane
Dewey Circle:          Northbound at Folker’s Drive
Diamond Court:         Westbound at Cobblestone Trail
Doud Court:            Northbound at Frankfort Main
Elise Boulevard:       Eastbound at Mary Drive
Elm Street:            Northbound at Wisconsin Road
Elm Street:            Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Emily Lane:            North/Southbound at Anise Drive
Falls View Circle:     Southbound at Merritton Road
Falls View Circle:     Westbound at Falls View Way
Farm View Drive:       Westbound at English Lane
Forestview Court:      Southbound at Parkview Lane
Forestview Drive:      Eastbound at Woodland Lane
Forestview Drive:      Northbound at Parkview Lane
Frontier Court:        Northbound at Pineview Lane
Georgetown Commons:    Westbound at Georgetown Road
Ginger Drive:          Southbound at Myrrh Lane
Grant Avenue:          Northbound at Johnson Avenue
Grant Avenue:          Southbound at Pleasant Hill Road
Gray Stone Court:      Eastbound at Stone Creek Boulevard
Hamilton Avenue:       Northbound at Johnson Avenue
Hamilton Avenue:       Southbound at Pleasant Hill
Hawthorne Road:        East/Westbound at Cottonwood Road
Hickory Street:        Southbound at Pacific Street
Higley Court:          Southbound at Frankfort Main
Hinspeter Drive:       Eastbound at Aster Drive
Hobby Avenue:          Southbound at Lincoln Lane
Hughes Street:         Northbound at Stoll Road
Hughes Street:         Southwesterly at Hinspeter Drive
Hunter Woods Drive:    Southbound at Steeplechase Drive
Jasmine Drive:         Southbound at Myrrh Lane
Jeanette Court:        Southbound at Stoll Road
Jennifer Street:       Westbound at Elise Boulevard
Johnson Avenue:        Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Joshua Drive:          Northbound at Brookhaven Drive
Joshua Drive:          Southbound at Tatum Lane
Katie Court:           Eastbound at Katie Lane
Karli Jean Court:      Eastbound at Katie Lane
Kelsey Marie Lane:     Southbound at Stanley Trail South
Kent Court:            Southbound at Frankfort Main
Lakeview Court:        Northbound at Raintree Lane
LaPorte Meadows Court: Eastbound at LaPorte Meadows Court
Larch Court A:         Westbound at Larch Road
Larch Court B:         Westbound at Larch Road
Laura Lane:            Northbound at Hinspeter Drive
Leslie Lane:           Northbound at Tanglewood Lane
Lexington Lane:        East/Westbound at Concord Drive
Lexington Lane:        Southbound at Yankee Ridge Drive
Lilac Court:           Westbound at Waterview Trail
Linden Court:          Westbound at Linden Road
Linden Road:           Northbound at Illinois Road
Linden Road:           Southbound at Meadow Avenue
Longview Drive:        Northbound at Brittany Drive
Longview Drive:        Southbound at Brittany Drive
Lynze Lane:            Eastbound at LaPorte Meadows Court
Mallow Drive:          Northbound at Dungarvan Road
Mallow Drive:          Southbound at Dungarvan Road
Mary Drive:            Southbound at Jennifer Street
Maura Court:           Eastbound at Brendan Street
Mayberry Lane:         Northbound at Northwoods Drive
Mayberry Lane:         Southbound at Pineview Lane
Mayfield Court:        Northbound at Mayfield Drive
Michigan Road:         Westbound at Hobby Avenue
Misty Falls Circle:    Northbound at Falls View Way
Misty Falls Circle:    Westbound at Misty Falls Lane
Mulberry Road:         Northbound at Johnson Avenue
Mulberry Road:         Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Munich Court:          Southbound at Zermatt Drive
Murphy Circle:         Northbound at Folker’s Drive
Nature Creek Court:    Westbound at Nature Creek Circle
Nevada Street A:       Northbound at Nevada Street
Nevada Street:         East/Westbound at Larch Road
Northwoods Court:      Eastbound at Northwoods Drive
Northwoods Drive:      Southbound at Big Buck Trail
Oakton Court:          Westbound at Oakton Avenue
Overlook Courts:       East/Westbound at Overlook Drive
Overlook Drive:        Southbound at Wood Street
Pacific Street:        East/Westbound at Oak Street
Pacific Street:        Westbound at Maple Street
Patrick Court:         Northeasterly at Hinspeter Drive
Patrick Court:         Southwesterly at Hinspeter Drive
Pembrook Court:        East/Westbound at Pembrook Drive
Penny Court:           Northbound at Penny Lane
Penny Court:           Southbound at Penny Lane
Perth Court:           Southbound at Zermatt Drive
Port Washington Drive: Southbound onto Port Washington Drive
(cul-de-sac)
Port Weller Court:     Southbound at Misty Falls Lane
Prairie Trial Lane:    Northbound at Parkview Lane
Prestwick Drive:       Eastbound at Hawthorne
Princeton Court:       Southbound at Princeton Circle
Pueblo Court:          Westbound at Aspen Street
Quartz Court:          Westbound at Cobblestone Trail
Raintree Court:        Southbound at Raintree Lane
Raintree Lane:         Westbound at Arbour Walk Drive
Roma Court:         Westbound at Fey Drive
Ruby Court:            Westbound at Cobblestone Trail
Saddlebred Court:      Eastbound at Windy Hill Drive
Sage Drive:            Southbound at Myrrh Lane
Sapphire Court:        Eastbound at Cobblestone Trail
Shimmering View Court: Eastbound at Brendan Street
Shimmering View Drive: Westbound at Brendan Street
Shire Court (east):    Northbound at Farm View Drive
Shire Court (west):    Northbound at Farm View Drive
Southwick Court:       Westbound at Southwick Drive
Spruce Road:           Northbound at Tanglewood Lane
Star Court:            Eastbound at Brendan Street
Sun River Drive:       Northbound at Coquille Drive
Sun River Drive:       Southbound at Coquille Drive
Swallow Tail Lane      Westbound at Morning Dove Lane
Tanglewood Courts:     East/Westbound at Tanglewood Lane
Tapatio Drive:         Southbound at Azure Drive
Tatum Lane:            Eastbound at Maddeline Lane
Tatum Lane:            Westbound at Parkview Lane
Thyme Lane:            Northbound at Tea Tree Lane
Topanga Canyon:        Eastbound at Tapatio Drive
Topanga Canyon:        Westbound at Tapatio Drive
Torino Way:            Southbound at Zermatt Drive
Utah Street:           East/Westbound at Walnut Street
Vermont Road:          Eastbound at Johnson Avenue
Vermont Road:          Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Vienna Way:            Westbound at Zermatt Drive
Virginia Court:        Westbound at Georgetown Road
Walnut Street:         Southbound at Pacific Street
Washington Parkway:    Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Westbrook:             Westbound at Pembrook Drive
Wetland Court:         Northbound at Falls View Way
Willow Street:         Northbound at Johnson Avenue
Willow Street:         Southbound at Franklin Avenue
Wood Street:           Westbound at Oakwood Street
Woodbridge Drive:      Southbound at Raintree Lane
Woodland Lane:         Northbound at Parkview Lane
Yankee Ridge Court:    Westbound at Yankee Ridge Drive
Yankee Ridge Drive:    Northbound at Williamsburg Trail
Yorktown Road:         Eastbound at Georgetown Road
Yorktown Road:         Eastbound/westbound at Old North Church
 
(Ord. 1686, passed 2-2-98; Am. Ord. 1774, passed 1-18-00; Am. Ord. 1852, passed
5-7-01; Am. Ord. 1871, passed 9-4-01; Am. Ord. 1886, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord.
1944, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 1960, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2043, passed 1-5-
04; Am. Ord. 2048, passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2058, passed 3-2-04; Am. Ord. 2117,
passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 2120, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2127, passed 11-1-04;
Am. Ord. 2193, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2199, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2294,
passed 6-19-06; Am. Ord. 2340, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 2458, passed 4-28-08;
Am. Ord. 2649, passed 4-26-10; Am. Ord. 2994, passed 10-19-15; Am. Ord. 3129,
passed 2-5-18; Am. Ord. 3159, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 3244, passed 2-18-20)
SCHEDULE III: SPEED LIMIT SIGNS.
   The village shall post at locations wherever it deems appropriate in the
respective districts, the following speed signs:
   (A)   Residence District:   25 MPH
   (B)   Urban District:   30 MPH
   (C)   Non-Urban District:   35 MPH
   (D)   All residential roadways within the Village of Frankfort shall be
limited to a speed of 25 MPH and shall be posted with a 25 MPH speed limit sign
with the following list of street exceptions:
88th Avenue                Northbound and southbound from St. Francis    35 MPH
                           Road to LaPorte Road extended
116th Avenue               North/Southbound from south of Laraway Road   35 MPH
                           to Steger Road
Colorado Avenue            Eastbound and westbound from U.S. Route 45 to 30 MPH
                           Pfeiffer Road
Crooked Creek Circle       Westbound                                     25 MPH
Crystal Lake Way           Northbound at 100 ft. north of LaPorte Road   25 MPH
Crystal Lake Way           Southbound at 100 ft. south of LaPorte Road   25 MPH
Elsner Road                Northbound and southbound from U.S. Route 30  35 MPH
                           to Nebraska Street
Falls View Way             Eastbound from 116th Avenue to Misty Falls    25 MPH
                           Lane
Heritage Drive             Northbound at 100 ft. north of Laraway Road   25 MPH
Lakeview Estates Boulevard Northbound                                    25 MPH
Majestic Lane              Southbound                                    25 MPH
Nature Creek Circle        Westbound                                     25 MPH
Nebraska Street            Westbound at 100 ft. west of Elsner Road      25 MPH
Nethers Way                Eastbound from 116th Avenue to Misty Falls    25 MPH
                           Lane
Pfeiffer Road              Northbound and southbound from Colorado       30 MPH
                           Avenue to St. Francis Road
Pfeiffer Road              Northbound and southbound from U.S. Route 30  40 MPH
                           to Steger Road
Regency                    Northbound at 100 ft. north of Laraway Road   25 MPH
Saint Francis Road         East/Westbound from 88th Avenue to Waterview  35 MPH
                           Drive
Sauk Trail                 Eastbound 100 ft. east of Center Road         35 MPH
Sauk Trail                 Eastbound 100 ft. east of Larch Road          45 MPH
Sauk Trail                 Westbound 100 ft. west of Harlem Avenue       35 MPH
Sauk Trail                 Westbound 100 ft. west of Larch Road          35 MPH
Sauk Trail                 East and westbound between Center Road and    35 MPH
                           Pfeiffer Road
Scheer Road                North of Steger Road to Flagstone Turn        35 MPH
Steger Road                East/westbound from 116th Avenue to Scheer    35 MPH
                           Road
Steger Road                East/westbound from U.S. Route 45 to Scheer   40 MPH
                           Road
                           East/westbound from the west side of the SE
                           quarter of Section 36 in Frankfort Township
Steger Road                and extending east to Harlem Avenue at the    45 MPH
                           east side of Section 1 in Green Garden
                           Township
Stoll Road                 Westbound 100 feet east of Merritton Road     25 MPH
Wolf Road                  Northbound and southbound between Laraway and 35 MPH
                           Steger Roads
Wolf Road                  Northbound and southbound between Laraway     40 MPH
                           Road and U.S. Route 30
Woodbridge Drive           Southbound at 100 ft. south of U.S. Route 30  25 MPH
 
(Ord. 1686, passed 2-2-98; Am. Ord. 1744, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1767, passed
12-6-99; Am. Ord. 1774, passed 1-18-00; Am. Ord. 1871, passed 9-4-01; Am. Ord.
1944, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 1960, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2043, passed 1-5-
04; Am. Ord. 2048, passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2081, passed 5-17-04; Am. Ord. 2117,
passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 2127, passe 11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2193, passed 9-6-05; Am.
Ord. 2199, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2319, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2682, passed
11-15-10; Am. Ord. 2866, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2929, passed 7-21-14; Am.
Ord. 3085, passed 4-24-17; Am. Ord. 3247, passed 6-15-20)
SCHEDULE IV: RIGHT TURN ONLY SIGNS.
 
Abbey Court North Southbound at Abbey Drive
Majestic Lane     Northbound at Laraway Road
Sutton Dale Lane  On the Stop Sign at the school parking lot entrance
 
(Ord. 1686, passed 2-2-98; Am. Ord. 1944, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 2193, passed
9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2347, passed 1-8-07)
SCHEDULE V: MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS.
80th      Install a "12-ton weight limit" sign north and southbound from Sauk Trail to
Avenue    Laraway Road
88th      Install “School Zone” signs on the north and south sides of the school along 88th
Avenue    Avenue
108th     Install “Caution Trail Crossing” and bike symbol caution signs
Avenue
116th     Install “School Zone” signs on the east and west sides of the street, between
Avenue    Sandalwood Drive and Laraway Road
Center    Install “No Thru Truck Traffic” signage from Nebraska Street to the CN Railroad
Road      tracks
Chelsea
School    Post a “No Right Turn” sign in the proper location for vehicles exiting the
22265 S.  parking lot at school dismissal time
80th Ave.
Crystal   Weight Limit 3 Tons
Lake Way
Dralle    Post “No Semi-Truck Traffic” signage on Dralle Road between Harlem Avenue and
Road      Ridgeland Avenue
Locust    Install “No Thru Truck Traffic” signage between U.S. Route 30 and Colorado Avenue
Street
Majestic  “Do Not Enter” sign at Laraway Road
Lane
Majestic  “Keep Right” sign northbound at Laraway Road
Lane
Majestic  “No Left Turn” sign northbound at Laraway Road
Lane
Maple     Relocate the existing “Caution Trail Crossing” sign to just south of Sherlock and
Street    north of Kansas Streets
Maple
Street    Install “No Truck Traffic” signage at the southwest corner of Maple Street and
and       Nebraska Street
Nebraska
Nebraska  Install “School Zone” signs at the eastern most intersection of Shilling Road and
Street    Nebraska Street to the western most intersection of Sutton Dale Lane and Nebraska
          Street
Old
Frankfort
Way       Install “No Thru Truck Traffic” signage for eastbound traffic
At U.S.
Route 45
Pfeiffer  Install a “12-ton weight limit” sign on the road between U.S. Route 30 and Laraway
Road      Road
Pfeiffer  Install a “12-ton weight limit” sign northbound between Laraway Road and U.S.
Road      Route 30
Ridgeland Post “No Semi-Truck Traffic” signage on Ridgeland Avenue between Dralle Road and
Avenue    Stuenkel Road
St.       Install a “12-ton weight limit” sign westbound between 84th Avenue and U.S. Route
Francis   45
Road
Sauk      Install school bus stop signs at locations designated by Lincoln-Way High School
Trail     as student pick-up and drop-off points
Sauk      Remove conflicting speed control signage
Trail
Sauk      Install a "12-ton weight limit" sign east and westbound from Pfeiffer Road to
Trail     Harlem Avenue
Steger    Install “No Trucks” signage eastbound and westbound from the west side of the SE
Road      quarter of Section 36 in Frankfort Township and extending east to Harlem Avenue at
          the east side of Section 1 in Green Garden Township
White
Street    Install “No Thru Truck Traffic” signage for southbound traffic
at U.S.
Route 45
 
(Ord. 1713, passed 9-8-98; Am. Ord. 1744, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1871, passed
9-4-01; Am. Ord. 1880, passed 1-22-02; Am. Ord. 1944, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord.
2144, passed 10-20-04; Am. Ord. 2193, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2347, passed 1-8-
07; Am. Ord. 2649, passed 4-26-10; Am. Ord. 2677, passed 10-18-10; Am. Ord.
2700, passed 2-22-11; Am. Ord. 2971, passed 5-18-15; Am. Ord. 3085, passed 4-
24-17; Am. Ord. 3217, passed 7-15-19; Am. Ord. 3247, passed 6-15-20)
SCHEDULE VI: NO PARKING SIGNS.
   Establish and post a no parking sign at the following:
80th Avenue Post a “no parking” sign on both the east and west side of 80th Avenue between
            Pine Ridge Drive and Big Buck Trail
80th Avenue Post a “no parking” sign along the east side of 80th Avenue between Sauk Trail and
            Laraway Road.
108th       Post a “no parking - this side of street” sign on the west side of 108th Avenue
Avenue      from Pioneer Trail, south to Cardinal Lake Drive.
Aberdeen    Post “No parking, stopping, or standing from Harlem Avenue to Here” signage from
Road        Harlem Avenue 175 feet west on the north side of Aberdeen Road.
Anise Drive Post a “no parking corner to here” sign 30 feet east of 116th Avenue for eastbound
            traffic.
Anise Drive Post a “no parking here to corner” sign 30 feet east of 116th Avenue for westbound
            traffic.
            Designate five parking spaces on the northwest corner of Ash Street, south of
            Kansas Street, as “1 Hour Parking - 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.”.
Ash Street  Designate two marked parallel parking spaces on the northeast corner of Ash
            Street, south of Kansas Street, as “20 Minute Parking - 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.”.
            Post “No Parking” for the east, south, and west portions of the Ash Street
Aspen       Post a “parking prohibited when school is in session, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.,
Street      Monday-Friday” sign on both sides of the street.
Bankview    Post a “parking prohibited when school is in session, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.,
Drive       Monday-Friday” sign on both sides of the street.
            Post a “no parking - corner to here” sign on south side of Big Buck Trail from
Big Buck    80th Avenue, east 220 feet; and
Trail       Post a “no parking - here to corner” sign on the north side of Big Buck Trail from
            220 feet east of 80th Avenue to 80th Avenue.
Boulder     Post a “parking prohibited when school is in session, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.,
Court       Monday-Friday” sign on both sides of the street.
Carpenter   Post a “No Parking 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.” sign on the west side of the street.
Street
Commerce    Post “No Parking” signage on Commerce Parkway from Laraway Road to Fey Drive for
Parkway     both sides of the street.
Croft Lane  Post a “No parking - 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. - on school days” sign along the
            east and west side of Croft Lane.
            Post a “No parking here to corner” sign on the east side of Crystal Lake Way,
Crystal     starting 75 feet south of LaPorte Road.
Lake Way    Post a “No parking corner to here” sign on the west side of Crystal Lake Way, for
            25 feet beginning at LaPorte Road.
Elwood      Post a “No Parking 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.” sign on the north side of the street.
Street
Heritage    Post signs on the east and west sides of Heritage Drive within the first 200 feet
Drive       north of Laraway Road.
            Install "No parking between signs Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m."
Hickory     and "Handicapped bus loading only" signage on the west side of the street at the
Street      Frankfort Park District Founders Center, in the vicinity of the handicapped
            accessible sidewalk, located north of Utah Street.
Indiana     Post a “no parking corner to here” sign at the intersection with Hawthorne Road,
Court       continuing 50 feet east on the south side of Indiana Court.
Iron Gate   Post “No Parking 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. on School Days” on both sides of Iron
Court       Gate Court.
Johnson     Post signs on the north side of Johnson Avenue between Elm Street and Willow
Avenue      Street.
Larch       Post signs on existing bike route sign posts on both sides of the street.
Avenue
Lincoln-Way Post a “no parking” sign on both sides of the street.
Lane
Locust      Post “no parking - 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. - on school days” signs along the east
Street      and west side of Locust Street, north of Colorado Avenue.
Locust      Post a “no parking here to corner” sign for north and southbound traffic south of
Street      Nebraska Street.
Locust      Post a “no parking here to corner” sign for northbound traffic north and south of
Street      Oregon Street.
Locust      Post a “no parking here to corner” sign for northbound traffic north and south of
Street      Utah Street.
Luther Lane Post a “no parking corner to here” sign 30 feet south of Nebraska Street for
            southbound traffic.
Luther Lane Post a “no parking here to corner” sign 30 feet south of Nebraska Street for
            northbound traffic.
McDonald    Post a “no parking - this side of street” sign on the south side of McDonald Lane,
Lane        from White Street, west to its terminus
Nebraska    Post a “no parking corner to here” sign 30 feet east of Luther Lane for eastbound
Street      traffic.
Nebraska    Post a “no parking here to corner” sign 30 feet west of Luther Lane for eastbound
Street      traffic.
Nebraska    Post a “no parking corner to here” sign 30 feet east of Sycamore Lane for
Street      eastbound traffic.
Nebraska    Post a “no parking here to corner” sign 30 feet west of Sycamore Lane for
Street      eastbound traffic.
“Maple    Post signs on existing bike route posts on both sides of Maple Street.
Street
Oak Street  Post sign on the east side of Oak on the existing bike route post sign post.
Oak Street  Post sign on the west side of Oak just north of the trail.
Ohio Road   Post “No Parking 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. on School Days” on both sides of Ohio
            Road from N. Locust Street to Willow Street.
Oregon      Post a “no parking here to corner” sign for east and westbound traffic at Locust
Street      Street.
Pfeiffer    Post signs on both north and south of trail on both sides of the road within 200
Road        feet of the trail.
Pine Ridge  Post “no parking” sign along the east side of Pine Ridge Drive fronting the park.
Drive
Pine Ridge  Post “no parking here to corner” sign for southbound traffic on Pine Ridge Drive
Drive       north of Callista Drive.
Pueblo      Post a “parking prohibited when school is in session, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.,
Court       Monday-Friday” sign on both sides of the street.
Regency     Post sign along the east side of Regency Drive between Laraway Road and Ashford
Drive       Avenue.
Regency     Post sign along the west side of Regency Drive 100 feet north of Laraway Road.
Drive
Regency     Post signs on the east and west sides of Regency Drive within 200 feet north of
Drive       Laraway Road.
Sandalwood  Post a “no parking corner to here” sign 30 feet east of 116th Avenue for eastbound
Drive       traffic.
Sandalwood  Post a “no parking here to corner” sign 30 feet east of 116th Avenue for westbound
Drive       traffic.
Sauk Trail  Post “no parking” signs on the north side of Sauk Trail, between Ash Street and
            Center Road.
Settler’s Post a “no parking - 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. - on school days” sign along the east
Lane        and west side of Settler’s Lane.
            Post a “no parking” signage on both sides of Steger Road, from Center Road to S.
Steger Road Center Road; and post “no parking” signage on the north side of Steger Road, from
            S. Center Road to 9436 W. Steger Road.
Sycamore    Post a “no parking corner to here” sign 30 feet south of Nebraska Street for
Lane        southbound traffic.
Sycamore    Post a “no parking here to corner” sign 30 feet south of Nebraska Street for
Lane        northbound traffic.
Utah Street Post a “no parking here to corner” sign for east and westbound traffic at Locust
            Street.
Utah Street Post sign on the north side of Utah for that portion 495 feet east of Locust
            Street.
Vail Drive  Post a “parking prohibited when school is in session, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.,
            Monday-Friday” sign on both sides of the street.
W. Bowen    Post a “No Parking” sign on the south side of the street between Smith Street and
Street      White Street.
            Post signs adjacent to the Old Plank Road Trail on White Street.
White       Designate one parallel parking space on the east side of White Street, between
Street      Nebraska Street and the Trolley Barn (at pedestrian walkway), as “20 Minute
            Parking - 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.”.
Willow      Post "No Parking 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. School Days" signage on west side of
Street      Willow Street from Ohio Road to Colorado Avenue.
Windy Hill  Post a “no parking” sign along the west side of Windy Hill Drive for approximately
Drive       100 feet from the centerline of Saddlebred Court.
 
(Ord. 1713, passed 9-8-98; Am. Ord. 1890, passed 5-6-02; Am. Ord. 1944, passed
12-2-02; Am. Ord. 2224, passed 10-17-05; Am. Ord. 2260, passed 1-9-06; Am. Ord.
2285, passed 6-5-06; Am. Ord. 2428, passed 11-19-07; Am. Ord. 2481, passed 6-
16-08; Am. Ord. 2587, passed 5-18-09; Am. Ord. 2606, passed 8-17-09; Am. Ord.
2649, passed 4-26-10; Am. Ord. 2677, passed 10-18-10; Am. Ord. 2717, passed 5-
16-11; Am. Ord. 2766, passed 2-21-12; Am. Ord. 2934, passed 8-18-14; Am. Ord.
2940, passed 9-15-14; Am. Ord. 2961, passed 1-20-15; Am. Ord. 2982, passed 9-
21-15; Am. Ord. 3035, passed 6-20-16; Am. Ord. 3036, passed 6-20-16; Am. Ord.
3048, passed 8-15-16; Am .Ord. 3070, passed 11-21-16; Am .Ord. 3074, passed 12-
19-16; Am. Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 3117, passed 10-2-17; Am. Ord.
3121, passed 11-20-17; Ord. 3159, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 3244, passed 2-18-
20; Am. Ord. 3247, passed 6-15-20; Am. Ord. 3325, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord.
3400, passed 5-15-23)
SCHEDULE VII: STRICTLY ENFORCED SPEED LIMIT SIGNS.
   Establish and post a “strictly enforced” speed limit sign at the following:
 
Charrington Install “strictly enforced” speed limit signs on the east and west sides of the
Drive       street.
Elise       Southbound at Laraway Road.
Boulevard
Sandalwood  Westbound at Mary Drive.
Drive
            
 
(Ord. 2386, passed 4-30-07; Am. Ord. 2994, passed 10-19-15)
SCHEDULE VIII: OVERWEIGHT AND OVERDIMENSION PERMITS.
   (A)   Weight restrictions.
      (1)   The maximum weight permitted on all village roads shall be 80,000
pounds, except as otherwise designated.
      (2)   Unless authorized in this schedule, it shall be unlawful to operate
a motor vehicle on any non-designated village road with a gross weight,
including load, in excess of the maximum weight limits or in excess of special
weight limits provided for by ordinance and signposted, without having first
obtained an overweight permit from the Chief of Police or designee.
   (B)   Application for overweight and overdimension permits. Applications for
all overweight and overdimension permits shall be submitted in the method and
form required by the Chief of Police or designee and shall include at a
minimum:
      (1)   The type of vehicle;
      (2)   The weights and dimensions of the vehicle(s);
      (3)   The description of the load;
      (4)   The requested route to be taken by the vehicle;
      (5)   The destination of the vehicle within the village; and
      (6)   The name of the carrier, if different than the applicant.
   (C)   Issuance of overweight and overdimension permits. Upon receipt of a
completed application and proof of payment of the fee, the Chief of Police or
designee may issue an overweight or overdimension permit, subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   In consideration of seasonal or other time limitations, the Chief
of Police or designee may restrict the number or time of daily trips authorized
by each permit, as is consistent with the public safety.
      (2)   In establishing the routes to be traveled, the Chief of Police or
designee may establish the route consistent with public safety, taking into
consideration existing traffic, the character of the road or roads and the
configuration of the terrain.
      (3)   All permits shall be nontransferable and shall be valid only for
the applicant or his or her agent or employee and the specific vehicle listed
on the application.
      (4)   Every permit shall be carried in the vehicle in paper or electronic
form to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police officer,
or agent of the village.
      (5)   No refunds of the permit fee shall be made to the applicant
following the issuance of a permit.
      (6)   The applicant shall comply with all township, village, county and
state statutes, ordinances, regulations, rules and requirements.
      (7)   Altering or falsifying a permit will revoke the applicant's permit
privileges for 12 months.
      (8)   The Chief of Police or designee is authorized to create and amend
reasonable provisions for permits.
   (D)   Fee schedule for permits. Overweight permits for an overweight
vehicle, including load, may be applied for and may be granted per the fee
schedule as set forth in this section.
      (1)   Limited continuous operation (LCO) overweight permits. LCO permits
are issued to a single power unit and may tow or carry non-divisible,
interchangeable loads for the duration of the permit. The maximum gross weight
for any LCO permit is 120,000 pounds.
         (a)   Permits for limited continuous operation shall be based on the
following fee schedule:
 
Daily ($100)   Expires at 11:59 p.m. the date of issue
Weekly ($250)  Valid for seven days from the requested date and time of
               issuance.
Monthly ($500) Valid for 30 days from the requested date and time of issuance.
 
         (b)   Other loads. Permits for non-divisible overweight movements
shall be based on the following fee schedule:
 
OVERWEIGHT PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
Weight (With Load)   Single Trip** Round Trip***
Up to 100,000 lbs.   $75           $150
100,001-120,000 lbs. $100          $200
120,001-150,000 lbs. $125          $250
Over 150,000 lbs.    $150          $300
**   Single trip. One move from the point of origin to the point of
destination. Any additional stops between the point of origin and the point of
destination are expressly prohibited. Single trip permits are valid for five
days from the requested date and time of issuance.
***   Round trip. Two trips over the same route in opposite directions. Any
additional stops between the point of origin and point of destination (and
reverse) are expressly prohibited. Round trip permits shall be valid for a
period of time not to exceed ten days from the date of issuance.
 
            1.   Overdimension only permits may be applied for and may be
granted in the amount of $50 for single trips and $100 for round trips.
            2.   If a vehicle requires a permit due to excess weight and excess
dimensions, permits for each such excess must be obtained before being operated
on a village roadway.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Operation of vehicle without a permit. Whenever any vehicle is
operated or movement made in violation of a permit issued in accordance with
this Schedule, the person to whom such permit was granted, or the driver of
such vehicle, is guilty of such violation and either, but not both, persons may
be prosecuted for such violation as stated in this division (E). Any person,
firm or corporation convicted of such violation shall be guilty of a petty
offense and shall be fined for the first offense, not less than $50 nor more
than $200 and, for the second offense by the same person, firm or corporation
within a period of one year, not less than $200 nor more than $300 and, for the
third offense by the same person, firm or corporation within a period of one
year after the date of the first offense, not less than $300 nor more than $500
and the village shall not issue permits to the person, firm or corporation
convicted of a third offense during a period of one year after the date of
conviction for such third offense.
      (2)   Vehicle with a gross weight in excess of maximum weight limits on a
non-designated road. Any person who violates this schedule operating a vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of the maximum weight limits or in excess of
special weight limits provided for by ordinance and signposted, without having
first obtained an overweight permit from the Chief of Police or designee, in
addition to any other fines and penalties as provided by law/ordinance, shall
be fined a minimum of $500 and a maximum as provided by law; except that a
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of 80,000 pounds may instead be subject
to the fines and penalties as set forth in division (D)(1)(b)2. Prior to
release of a vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the maximum weight limits
on a non-designated road, a sufficient bond must be posted. Each occurrence
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Vehicle with a gross weight in excess of prescribed weight limits.
Any person who violates this schedule operating a vehicle with a gross weight
in excess of prescribed weight limits, in addition to any other fines and
penalties as provided by law/ordinance, shall be subject to the fines and
penalties as follows:
         (a)   Weight. Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111, the owner or driver of such
vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such violation and either the owner or the
driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person charged
with a violation of any of these provisions who pleads not guilty shall be
present in court for the trial on the charge. Any person, firm or corporation
convicted of any violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111, as enforced by the
village, including, but not limited to, a maximum axle or gross limit specified
on a regulatory sign posted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111
(g), in addition to any surcharge, court costs, and fees, shall be fined
according to the following schedule:
POUNDS OVERWEIGHT FINE
POUNDS OVERWEIGHT         FINE
Up to and including 2,000 $100
From 2,001 through 2,500  $270
From 2,501 through 3,000  $330
From 3,001 through 3,500  $520
From 3,501 through 4,000  $600
From 4,001 through 4,500  $850
From 4,501 through 5,000  $950
                          The fine shall be computed by assessing: $1,500 for
From 5,001 or more        the first 5,000 pounds overweight and $150 for each
                          additional increment of 500 pounds overweight or
                          fraction thereof
*   In addition, any person, firm or corporation convicted of four or more
violations of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111 within any twelve-month period
shall be fined an additional amount of $5,000 for the fourth and each
subsequent conviction within the 12 month period. Provided, however, that with
regard to a firm or corporation, a fourth or subsequent conviction shall mean
a fourth or subsequent conviction attributable to any one employee-driver,
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-113(a).
 
         (b)   Width, height, length of vehicles. Whenever any vehicle is
operated in violation of the provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-102, 15-
103 or 15-107, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of
such violation and either may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person,
firm or corporation convicted of any violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-
102, 15-103 or 15-107, shall be fined for the first or second conviction an
amount equal to not less than $50, nor more than $500, and for the third and
subsequent convictions by the same person, firm or corporation within a period
of one year after the date of the first offense, not less than $500, nor more
than $1,000, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-113(b).
(Ord. 3125, passed 12-18-17)
SCHEDULE IX: ONE WAY VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
 
Street        Direction         Description             Parking
                                                        No person shall stand
                                                        or park a vehicle in
                                                        the street herein
                                Between Nebraska Street described other than
Ash Street    Northerly         and Kansas Street       angularly with the
                                                        easterly or westerly
                                                        edge of the street
                                                        partially headed in a
                                                        northerly direction
                                                        No person shall stand
                                                        or park a vehicle in
                                                        the easterly one half
                                                        of the street herein
                                                        described other than
                                                        angularly with the
Oak Street    Southerly         Between Nebraska Street easterly edge of that
                                and Kansas Street       street partially headed
                                                        in a southerly
                                                        direction, or in the
                                                        westerly one half other
                                                        than parallel with the
                                                        westerly edge of the
                                                        street headed south
                                From its intersection
                                with Locust Street to   No person shall stand
              Northeasterly and its intersection with   or park in the
Ohio Street   northerly         Willow Street in        southeasterly portion
                                Lincoln Meadows Unit    of Ohio Road
                                No. 2, commonly known
                                as Connecticut Hills
                                From its intersection   No persons shall stand
                                with Ohio Road to its   or park in the easterly
              Northeasterly and intersection with       portion of Willow
Willow Street northerly         Colorado Avenue in      Street between the
                                Lincoln Meadows Unit    intersections described
                                No. 2, commonly known   herein
                                as Connecticut Hills
 
   Signs indicating the direction of traffic shall be erected and maintained at
every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 531, passed 6-18-62; Am. Ord. 562, passed 10-18-65; Am. Ord. 730, passed
10-19-71)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Parking when snow has accumulated to depth of two inches or more
   
72.03   Towing
   
72.04   Parking and storage of commercial vehicles
   
72.05   Parking and storage of recreational vehicles
   
72.06   Prohibited parking during Frankfort Country Market
   
72.07   Parking on lawns
   
72.08   Sale of parked vehicles or merchandise therefrom
   
72.09   Prohibited parking along U.S. Route 30 from Wolf Road to Illinois Route
43
   
72.10   Prohibited parking along U.S. Route 45 (La Grange Road)
   
72.11   Parking violations; enforcement; prima facie responsibility designated
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different .
   REGISTERED CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any organization required to register
and file a charitable organization statement and an annual report or a
religious organization exemption form with the Office of the Attorney General
of Illinois under the Charitable Trust Act (ILCS Ch. 760, Act 55, §§ 1 et
seq.), as amended, and/or the Solicitation for Charity Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act
460, §§ 1 et seq.), and has tax exempt status as a charity or religious
organization from the Internal Revenue Service.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 880, passed 2-3-75; Am Ord. 2773, passed 4-30-12)
§ 72.02 PARKING WHEN SNOW HAS ACCUMULATED TO DEPTH OF TWO INCHES OR MORE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or for any vehicle to remain parked
upon any street in the village when snow has or does accumulate to the depth of
two inches or more as measured within the Village of Frankfort corporate
limits. This parking restriction shall continue until the snow removal
operation is complete. If a vehicle is parked on a street when the snow begins
to fall, it shall be the owner’s or driver’s responsibility to remove the
vehicle from the street by the time the snow has reached a depth of two inches.
(Ord. 880, passed 2-3-75; Am. Ord. 3336, passed 1-3-22) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 TOWING.
   Any police officer in the village is hereby authorized to tow or cause to be
towed to a suitable storage area, any vehicle within the village which is in
violation of this chapter and such vehicle shall thereupon be impounded until
lawfully claimed. The owner of the vehicle which is impounded under the
provisions of this chapter shall be charged in addition to other penalties
which may be imposed hereunder, a fee in a sum sufficient to cover the charges
and expenses for towing and storage of any such vehicle, which fee shall be
payable to the Village Clerk; said fee must be paid in full prior to the
release of the vehicle so impounded, and the same may be collected by the
village in an action at law or as an additional fine hereunder. The above fee
is in addition to the fine provided for in §
72.99 for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 880, passed 2-3-75)
§ 72.04 PARKING AND STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any
commercial vehicle, commercial trailer or utility trailer on any of the streets
or alleys of the village for a period in excess of one hour between 7:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. (prevailing local time). The Chief of Police may extend said
period as deemed necessary to the public health, welfare or safety.
   (B)   A commercial vehicle is defined herein for purposes of this section as
any vehicle other than a regular passenger motor vehicle manufactured or used,
in whole or in part, for commercial purposes, the weight of which is in excess
of 9,000 pounds.
   (C)   Commercial trailers or utility trailers are defined as any unpowered
vehicle, which is designed to be drawn by another vehicle.
(Ord. 1879, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 3111, passed 9-18-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PARKING AND STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No recreational vehicle may be parked on any street, alley, public
parking lot or public way. Recreational vehicles parked in a front private
driveway shall not be parked in excess of 48 hours in any seven-day period. No
recreational vehicle may be stored or parked on private property within a
residentially zoned area in excess of 48 hours unless such vehicle is parked on
an approved paved surface, is not located in any required front, side or rear
setback as defined by the Zoning Code, is screened from view from the public
street by a fence or landscaping, or is located no less than three feet behind
the front wall, as extended, of the primary structure of the lot.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, “recreational vehicles” includes but
is not limited to every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home, travel
trailer, truck camper, boat, boat trailer, snowmobile, snowmobile trailer or
van camper or any other vehicle including air, land or watercraft used
primarily for recreational purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a
commercial business.
(Ord. 1879, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 3157, passed 5-21-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PROHIBITED PARKING DURING FRANKFORT COUNTRY MARKET.
   (A)   On Sundays, during the spring and summer months(April through October)
when the Frankfort Country Market is in scheduled session, it shall be unlawful
to park any vehicle, without a Country Market permit sticker or market
supervisor approval, in the Breidert Green parking lot, from the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The intent of the ban is to keep the area free of vehicular
traffic to allow the market vendors unencumbered access to the lot to unload
and set up their wares.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to park on Oak Street and in the Chamber of
Commerce parking lot on Oak Street without a Country Market sticker during the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Sundays (April through October), for the
same reason as set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful when posted to park in the 1 North White
Street parking lot on White Street, south of Old Plank Road Trail, without a
Country Market sticker or market supervisor approval during the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Sundays (April through October), for the same reason as
set forth in division (A) above.
   (D)   It shall also be unlawful when posted to park in the 2 Smith Street
parking lot, located in the southwest corner of Elwood and Oak Street without a
Country Market sticker or market supervisor approval during the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Sundays (April through October), for the same reason as
set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2273, passed 4-3-06; Am Ord. 2772, passed 4-30-12; Am. Ord. 2850, passed
7-22-13; Am. Ord. 3249, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 3451, passed 4-22-24)
§ 72.07 PARKING ON LAWNS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on any property, including lawns, fields, grassy areas or any other
location within the village not designed, permanently improved, primarily used
and permitted by the village for the parking of vehicles.
   (B)   As a result of a village approved special event, temporary parking on
lawns conducted by a registered religious or charitable organization as defined
in §
72.01, or the property owner, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Temporary parking shall not exceed four days;
      (2)   No temporary parking is allowed on any property in a residential
zoned district, except on fully improved, owner-occupied lots;
      (3)   This excludes any properties subject to current or pending adverse
actions, including but not limited to, foreclosure and liens.
(Ord. 2276, passed 4-3-06; Am Ord. 2773, passed 4-30-12; Am. Ord. 3137, passed
3-19-18)
§ 72.08 SALE OF PARKED VEHICLES OR MERCHANDISE THEREFROM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for the purpose of displaying
it for sale upon a street or upon property not zoned for automobile sales.
Nevertheless, a single vehicle may be displayed for sale upon residential
property, provided said vehicle is licensed and registered to the owner of the
property and complies with §
72.07.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to peddle or sell any merchandise from a parked
vehicle.
(Ord. 2277, passed 4-3-06)
§ 72.09 PROHIBITED PARKING ALONG U.S. ROUTE 30 FROM WOLF ROAD TO ILLINOIS ROUTE
43.
   (A)   Parking shall not be permitted along U.S. Route 30 from Wolf Road to
Illinois Route 43 (Harlem Avenue), and along Wolf Road from U.S. Route 30 to
the Old Plank Road Trail Bike Path, within the corporate limits of the Village
of Frankfort.
   (B)   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Frankfort will
prohibit future parking at such locations on or immediately adjacent to the
U.S. Route 30 improvements as may be determined and directed by the State of
Illinois to be necessary to ensure the free flow of traffic and safety to the
motoring public.
(Ord. 2498, passed 8-18-08; Am. Ord. 2703, passed 3-21-11)
§ 72.10 PROHIBITED PARKING ALONG U.S. ROUTE 45 (LA GRANGE ROAD).
   (A)   Parking shall not be permitted along U.S. Route 45 (La Grange Road)
from Nebraska Street to Laraway Road within the corporate limits of the Village
of Frankfort.
   (B)   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Frankfort will
prohibit future parking at such locations on or immediately adjacent to the
U.S. Route 45 improvements as may be determined and directed by the State of
Illinois to be necessary to ensure the free flow of traffic and safety to the
motoring public.
(Ord. 2523, passed 10-20-08)
§ 72.11 PARKING VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PRIMA FACIE RESPONSIBILITY DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the
traffic code prohibiting or restricting vehicular standing or parking, the
person in whose name the vehicle is registered with the Secretary of State of
Illinois shall be prima facie responsible for the violation and subject to the
penalty therefor.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the
traffic code prohibiting or restricting vehicular parking or standing, any
police officer, traffic control aide, other designated member of the Police
Department, parking enforcement aide or other person designated by the Traffic
Compliance Administrator observing such violation may issue a parking violation
notice and serve the notice on the owner of the vehicle by handing it to the
operator of the vehicle, if present, or by affixing it to the vehicle in a
conspicuous place. The issuer of the notice shall specify on the notice their
identification number, the particular parking regulation allegedly violated,
the make and state registration number of the cited vehicle, and the place,
date, time and nature of the alleged violation and shall certify the
correctness of the specified information by signing their name as provided in
Section 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 3256, passed 8-17-20)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
72.02 shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not less than $25
and not more than $750.
(Ord. 880, passed 2-3-75; Am. Ord. 1739, passed 4-19-99; Am. Ord. 1943, passed
12-2-02)
CHAPTER 73: VILLAGE VEHICLE LICENSE
Section
   
73.01   Voluntary license
   
73.02   Application
   
73.03   Non-binding license fee
   
73.04   Duration of license
   
73.05   Purchase of license
   
73.06   Removal of tag on sale
   
73.07   Emblems
   
73.08   Use of funds
§ 73.01 VOLUNTARY LICENSE.
   Every person who owns or operates a vehicle, who resides in the village, or
regularly garages or regularly parks such vehicle overnight within the village,
shall have the opportunity to voluntarily purchase a vehicle license. Such
license shall be issued as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.02 APPLICATION.
   Application for a license shall be made to the Village Clerk upon a form
provided therefor, giving the name, address and telephone number of the
applicant, a description of the vehicle for which the license is desired, the
class of vehicle as hereinafter set forth, and any other information as may be
prescribed. Upon payment of the non-binding license fee as hereinafter
provided, the Village Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued a license
authorizing the use of such vehicle within the limits of the village.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.03 NON-BINDING LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The non-binding license fee paid annually to the Village Clerk shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Passenger vehicle or truck of less than one-ton capacity: $5.00.
      (2)   Passenger vehicle or truck of less than one-ton capacity owned by a
senior citizen age 65 or over: $2.50.
      (3)   Two-axle commercial vehicle of less than 24,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight: $7.50.
      (4)   Commercial vehicle with more than two axles, or of a gross vehicle
weight of 24,000 pounds or more: $10.00.
      (5)   Motor bicycle, motor scooter or other two- or three-wheel motor
vehicle: $3.00.
      (6)   The village waives the $5.00 license fee for those residents who
own a passenger vehicle or truck of less than one-ton capacity that qualifies
as a hybrid-electric vehicle, as defined in division (B) of this section and is
listed in the Fuel Economy Guide or its successor publication.
   (B)   A HYBRID-ELECTRIC VEHICLE, as defined by the United States Department
of Energy and United States Environmental Protection Agency, and published in
the Fuel Economy Guide, “typically combines the internal combustion engine of a
conventional vehicle with the battery and electric motor of an electric
vehicle. The combination offers low emissions, with the power, range, and
convenient fueling of conventional (gasoline and diesel) vehicles, and they
never need to be plugged in.” (Source: U.S. Department of Energy, Energy
Efficiency and Renewable Energy web site, www.eere.energy.gov;
www.fueleconomy.gov)
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2334, passed 11-6-06; Am. Ord. 2771,
passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.04 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   All vehicle licenses shall be non-expiring, with no expiration date set
forth on the license.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.05 PURCHASE OF LICENSE.
   All persons who wish to acquire licenses hereunder may do so voluntarily at
any time of the year.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.06 REMOVAL OF TAG ON SALE.
   Immediately upon the sale of any vehicle licensed under the terms of this
chapter, the vendor shall remove any currently valid license emblem.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.07 EMBLEMS.
   Upon the issuance of the license, the Village Clerk shall deliver to the
applicant a sticker license emblem, which shall bear the words “Village of
Frankfort, Illinois,” and a number identical with the number of each license.
It shall be the duty of each licensee to affix the same in the lower right-hand
corner of the windshield of the licensed vehicle, approximately one inch from
the right and lower sections of the frame of the windshield, so as to be
plainly visible at all time.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
§ 73.08 USE OF FUNDS.
   All revenue derived from such non-binding license fees, except for the cost
of issuing the licenses and emblems and collecting the fees, shall be kept as a
separate fund and used only for paying the cost of improving, paving, repairing
and maintaining the streets and other public roadways within the village, or as
may otherwise be permitted by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1795, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2771, passed 4-30-12)
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Motorized play vehicles
   
74.02   Neighborhood vehicles
   
74.03   Bicycles
§ 74.01 MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLE. A device that, together with its operator,
passenger or load, is propelled in whole or in part by means other than human
motor power, and that is capable of being operated upon any highway, road,
street, parking lot, sidewalk or other property within the Village of
Frankfort, including but not limited to electric personal assistive mobility
devices as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7 and any and all devices
known as or referred to as motorized scooters, motorized skateboards, go-carts,
mini-bikes, which are propelled by any type of motor or engine whatsoever and
include a platform or other space on which an operator or passenger may ride,
but excluding motorized wheelchairs as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
148.3, low-speed electric bicycles, and vehicles for which certificates of
title and registration plates or stickers have been issued by the State of
Illinois pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.
   (B)   Prohibition.  
      (1)    It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, ride, use or
otherwise control any motorized play vehicle over, across or upon any public
road, highway, street, sidewalk, bicycle path, parking or other public property
within the village, except as may be directed by any sworn law enforcement
officer of the village or except as may be necessary or required by any
employee of the village duly engaged in the performance of official village
business or duties.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, ride, use or
otherwise control any motorized play vehicle over, across or upon any private
road, highway, street, sidewalk, bicycle path, parking lot or other private
property within the village, unless the owner of such private property shall
consent thereto.
   (C)   Impoundment. Any and all motorized play vehicles operated in violation
of this chapter may be impounded by the Village of Frankfort Police Department
and held as evidence of such violation pending the final disposition of any
ordinance violation or other legal proceedings commenced in relation to such
violation.
   (D)   Parental liability.  It shall further be unlawful under this chapter
for any parent or any legal guardian of any minor to permit, authorize, allow
or acquiesce in the operation of any motorized play vehicle by such minor in
violation of this chapter or to negligently fail to exercise reasonable care to
prevent the operation of any motorized play vehicle by such minor in violation
of this chapter. Any parent or any legal guardian of any minor who permits,
authorizes, allows or acquiesces in the operation of any motorized play vehicle
by such minor in violation of this chapter or who negligently fails to exercise
reasonable care to prevent the operation of any motorized play vehicle by such
minor in violation of this chapter shall be liable for any and all damages and
injuries to persons or property resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 2103, passed 7-19-04; Am. Ord. 3474, passed 11-4-24)
§ 74.02 NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE (EPAMD). A self-balancing,
two non-tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an
electric propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15
miles per hour or less.
      EMPLOYEE. Any officer, full time, part time, volunteer or unpaid person
working under the direction, supervision and control of and performing work or
services for the Village of Frankfort, the Frankfort Fire Protection District,
or the Will County Forest Preserve District,
      NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE. A self-propelled and motor vehicle with an engine
displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters which is capable of attaining in one
mile a speed of more than 20 miles per hour, but not more than 25 miles per
hour, and which conforms to federal regulations under Title 49 C.F.R. Part
571.500. At minimum, a neighborhood vehicle must be equipped as follows:
brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized
warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem (as required of
other vehicles in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709) on the rear of the
neighborhood vehicle, a headlight that emits a white light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the front, a tail lamp that emits a red light visible
from at least 100 feet from the rear, brake lights, and turn signals.
      RECREATIONAL TRAIL. Includes any public path, trail, route including the
Old Plank Road Trail designed to be used by pedestrians, bicycles, walkers,
joggers and other recreational users.
      SIDEWALK. A paved walkway for pedestrian usage beside or proximate to a
street or roadway which is not designed or intended for use as a recreational
vehicle.
      STREET. Includes any highway, roadway, street, alleyway designed or
intended for vehicular travel, street right-of-way, street parkways and public
sidewalks.
   (B)   Prohibited use of neighborhood vehicles.  Except as provided in
division (C) below, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
neighborhood vehicle or EPAMD on any street, recreational trail or public
property in the Village of Frankfort.
   (C)   Authorization of use by Village of Frankfort and Frankfort Fire
Protection District. Any person who is an employee of the Village of Frankfort,
the Frankfort Fire Protection District or the Will County Forest Preserve
District may operate a neighborhood vehicle or EPAMD on village streets or
recreational trails subject to compliance with the following:
      (1)   The person must have a valid Illinois driver's license in his or
her name issued by the Illinois Secretary of State.
      (2)   Neighborhood vehicle or EPAMD must be owned, leased or otherwise
controlled by the Village of Frankfort, the Frankfort Fire Protection District,
or the Will County Forest Preserve District.
      (3)   Neighborhood vehicles or EPAMD(s) may be operated only on streets
where the posted or authorized speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less,
recreational trails or public ways. In addition, an EPAMD may also be operated
on sidewalks. This does not prohibit a neighborhood vehicle or EPAMD from
crossing a street at an intersection where the street has a posted speed limit
of more than 35 miles per hour.
      (4)   Neighborhood vehicles or EPAMD(s) shall be operated in conformance
with all applicable laws of the State of Illinois and ordinances of the Village
of Frankfort not inconsistent with this section.
      (5)   The neighborhood vehicle shall be operated in conformance with any
rules and regulations promulgated by the Chief of Police of the Village of
Frankfort regarding the operation of neighborhood vehicles or EPAMD(s).
   (D)   Chief of Police rules and regulations. The Chief of Police may
promulgate and publish rules and regulations for the operation of neighborhood
vehicles and EPAMD(s) not inconsistent with this section.
   (E)   Penalty. Any business or person found to have violated any provision
of this section shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense and not
less than $500 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2693, passed 2-22-11)
§ 74.03 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
      LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals
and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one
of the following classes as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140.10:
         (a)   CLASS 1 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20
miles per hour.
         (b)   CLASS 2 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and
that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
20 miles per hour.
         (c)   CLASS 3 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28
miles per hour.
         (d)   A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor driven
cycle.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any Federal or State
bicycle laws, including the Illinois Rules of the Road, Article XV Bicycles,
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1501 et seq.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, operate, or use a
bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle except on a designated path, trail, or
roadway.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, operate, or use a
bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle on the left-hand side of any path, trail,
or roadway, as conditions shall permit.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry another person on the
bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle handlebars, frame or fender, or ride on a
bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle except on a suitable seat attached to
such bicycle for such purpose.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, operate, or use a
bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle in a reckless manner to endanger or
injure themselves, any person, animal, or property.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, operate, or use a
bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle that has a throttle or that is capable of
exceeding 21 mph (Class 2 and Class 3 low-speed electric bicycles are
prohibited).
   (C)   Operation or use. The operation or use of low-speed electric bicycles
is allowed within the village as long as they meet certain requirements:
      (1)   The electric bicycle must be low speed (an electric motor of less
than 750 watts).
      (2)   The electric bicycle must have a maximum speed of less than 20
miles per hour.
      (3)   The electric bicycle must have functional pedals.
      (4)   The rider of the electric bicycle must be at least 16 years of age.
   (D)   Authorization of use by the village and Frankfort Fire Protection
District. Any person who is an employee of the village, the Frankfort Fire
Protection District or the Will County Forest Preserve District may operate any
low-speed electric bicycle subject to compliance with the following:
      (1)   The person must have a valid Illinois driver’s license in his or
her name issued by the Illinois Secretary of State.
      (2)   Low-speed electric bicycles must be owned, leased or otherwise
controlled by the Village of Frankfort, the Frankfort Fire Protection District,
or the Will County Forest Preserve District.
      (3)   Low-speed electric bicycles may be operated only on streets where
the posted or authorized speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less, recreational
trails or public ways. In addition, an electric bicycle may also be operated on
sidewalks. This does not prohibit a low-speed electric bicycle from crossing a
street at an intersection where the street has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour.
      (4)   Low-speed electric bicycles shall be operated in conformance with
all applicable laws of the state and ordinances of the village not inconsistent
with this section.
   (E)   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police may promulgate and publish rules
and regulations for the operation of low-speed electric bicycles not
inconsistent with this section.
   (F)   Penalty. Any business or person found to have violated any provision
of this section shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense and not
less than $500 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 3474, passed 11-4-24)
CHAPTER 75: OPERATIONAL PROHIBITIONS
Section
   
75.01   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise prohibited
   
75.02   Exemptions
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Muffler; muffler cutout. Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an
internal combustion engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which
is in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive noise
or unusual sound, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass or similar
device upon a motor vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be
equipped with baffle plates.
   (B)   Excessive smoke or gas. No person shall own, operate or have in his or
her possession any motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for
producing excessive smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other
chemical to flow into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or
equipped in any other way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying
gases from any portion of such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted
by the exhaust of an internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (C)   Jake braking. No person, while operating a commercial motor vehicle
within the village, shall apply an engine braking system (a practice commonly
known as “jake braking”), or otherwise use the vehicle’s engine in such a
manner as to emit excessive noise.
   (D)   Measurement of sound by law enforcement. Any law enforcement personnel
who hears a sound that may be a violation of this section shall be entitled to
measure the sound according to the following standards:
      (1)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the officer’s
ordinary auditory senses, so long as the officer’s hearing is not enhanced by
any mechanical device such as a microphone or hearing aid.
      (2)   The officer must have a direct line of sight and hearing to the
motor vehicle producing the sound so that he or she can readily identify the
offending motor vehicle and the estimated distance involved.
(Ord. 2441, passed 2-19-08) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to emergency and/or police vehicles.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation of §
75.01(C) that the driver used an engine braking system that emits excessive
noise in an emergency to avoid a collision with a person or another vehicle on
the highway.
(Ord. 2441, passed 2-19-08) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
75.01 shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not less than $75
and not more than $750.
(Ord. 2441, passed 2-19-08)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   LITTER CONTROL
      
94.   NUISANCES; WEEDS
      
95.   PARADES AND PUBLIC GATHERINGS
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   RESERVED
      
98.   SNOWMOBILES
      
99.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
90.03   Leaving of wrecked, nonoperating vehicle on street
   
90.04   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
90.05   Parking or storing vehicles on public streets
   
90.06   Impoundment of vehicles; fees
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the village or his authorized
representative.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village or any village property,
within or without the corporate limits, which is not a street or highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides, and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck trailer, motor cycle, tractor, bus, buggy, and
wagon.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village or on village
property, within or without the corporate limits, and no person shall leave any
vehicle at any place within the village or on village property within or
without the corporate limits, for such time and under such circumstances as to
cause such vehicle to reasonably appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LEAVING OF WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLE ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the village or on village
property within or without the corporate limits, provided such vehicle may be
left at a place authorized by the village.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property other than village property
within the village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days, and no person
shall leave any such vehicle on any property other than village property within
the village longer than 30 days or on village property, within or without the
corporate limits, for a longer time than 48 hours; except that this section
shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on
the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner
when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise, or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the village.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 PARKING OR STORING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   No person shall park or store any vehicle on any public street, alley, or
public way for more than 48 successive hours.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; FEES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any
vehicle left at any place within the village or on any village property, within
or without the corporate limits, which reasonably appears to be in violation of
this chapter or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded
until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with the state and
provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that any vehicle left at any
place, other than on village property, shall not be removed and impounded as
provided herein until the Chief of Police shall have given written notice to
remove said vehicle within ten days of the mailing of such notice and of the
intention of the Chief of Police to remove and impound such vehicle if it has
not been removed at the end of such time.
   (B)   The notice required in division (A) above shall be given by:
      (1)   Affixing notice on such vehicle.
      (2)   Sending notice by mail to the owner of such vehicle at his last
known address if the owner is reasonably ascertainable; and
      (3)   By sending notice by mail to the person owning or controlling the
property on which such vehicle is located.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may enter upon private property at all reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspecting such vehicle, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to prevent the Chief of Police from entering on private property for
purposes of carrying out his duties hereunder or to interfere with him in the
lawful performance of his duties under the provisions of this chapter. The
Chief of Police may tow, or cause to be towed, any vehicle abandoned, parked,
or otherwise kept in violation of the provisions of this chapter, to a suitable
storage area.
   (D)   The owner of or person abandoning, parking, or otherwise keeping a
vehicle in violation of the provisions of this chapter, which is impounded
under the provisions of law and this chapter, shall be charged a fee in a sum
sufficient to cover the charges and expenses of impounding and the enforcement
of this chapter, payable to the Village Clerk, which fee may be collected by
the village in an action at law against said violator, and which fee must be
paid prior to the release of the vehicle so impounded. This fee shall be in
addition to the fine provided for herein for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Every person who is convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750 for
each offense. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 571, passed 4-4-66; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Operational requirements
   
91.03   Alarm equipment supplier
   
91.04   Liability of village limited
   
91.05   Fees
Telephonic Alarm Systems
   
91.20   Permit required
   
91.21   Application for permit
   
91.22   Right of inspection
   
91.23   Restricted numbers
   
91.24   Revocation
   
91.25   Annual permit
Burglar Alarm Systems
   
91.30   Supervision and inspection of control boards
   
91.31   Permit
   
91.32   Approval of plans
   
91.33   Installation
   
91.34   Enforcement
   
91.35   Operation
   
91.36   Fees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER. Any person, firm, or corporation that sells or
leases, and/or installs automatic protection devices that transmit over regular
telephone lines a prerecorded voice alarm upon receipt of a stimulus from a
detection apparatus.
   AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE. An electrically operated instrument composed of
sensory apparatus and related hardware which automatically sends over regular
telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice alarm
or other alarm signal upon receipt of a stimulus from the sensory apparatus
that has detected a physical force or condition inherently characteristic of a
fire or unauthorized intrusion. AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE includes but is not
limited to any burglar, fire, or other protection device which emits any visual
or audible signal which sounds, signals, or is transmitted in any manner,
including transmission by telephonic or other means, to any center used for
reception of alarm signals.
   COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The Lincoln-Way facility which is a central dispatch
and communications facility for the Village Police Department.
   DIRECT LINE. A telephone line leading directly to the communications center
of the Police Department that is for use only to report emergency messages and
signals on a person-to-person basis.
   KEY (to a telephone line). To use a telephone line for transmitting a
message, either by direct connection or by a mechanism not so connected that
utilizes the microphone of a standard telephone to do so.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or society,
but such term does not include the village.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Police Department of the village or his
authorized representative.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the village.
   PRIMARY TRUNKLINE. A telephone line leading into the communications center
of the Police Department that is for the purpose of handling emergency calls on
a person-to-person basis, and which line is identified by a specific listing
among the emergency numbers in the telephone directory issued by the telephone
company serving the village.
   SIGNALING DEVICE. An electrically operated instrument composed of sensory
apparatus and related hardware that, upon detection of a physical force or
condition characteristic of an emergency, will excite a signal line in such a
way as to cause both visual and audible signals to be registered by indicators
on a monitor panel at the receiving terminal of that signal line in a central
location.
   SIGNAL LINE. A line not connected to any standard telephone equipment which
leads into an indicator panel in the communications center of the Police
Department or to such a panel in either a central station protective system or
a modified central station, and which is designed to transmit electrically an
alarm signal readily identifiable as to location of origin.
   SPECIAL TRUNKLINE. A telephone line leading into the communications center
of the Police Department that is for the primary purpose of handling emergency
messages which originate from automatic protection devices and are transmitted
directly or through an intermediary.
   TELEPHONE COMPANY. The public utility that has a franchise authorizing it to
furnish telephone service to subscribers in the village.
   TELEPHONIC ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanism, equipment, or device which is
designed to operate automatically through the use of public telephone
facilities to transmit a signal, message, or warning to another location.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72; Am. Ord. 1097, passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.02 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No automatic protection device or telephonic alarm system that is
installed by any person on premises of any kind in the village shall be keyed
to a primary trunkline.
   (B)   Any alarm equipment supplier who installs automatic protection devices
or telephonic alarm systems for the purpose of sending prerecorded emergency
messages directly to the Police Department shall first obtain necessary
instructions, including a designated telephone number, from the communications
center in order to key such devices to a special trunkline into the
communications center.
   (C)   All automatic protection devices or telephonic alarm systems that were
keyed prior to November 20, 1972 to a primary trunkline shall be disconnected
therefrom. The owner or lessee of any such device shall be responsible for its
disconnection.
   (D)   An owner or lessee of an automatic protection device or telephonic
alarm system who has it disconnected as required by this section, may authorize
an alarm equipment supplier who has a temporary permit or a license, as
required by this chapter to key the automatic protection device to a special
trunkline into the communications center, provided that the device meets
operational requirements, as set forth in this chapter or as required by the
Lincoln Way communications center.
   (E)   No one except an alarm equipment supplier with a temporary permit or a
license from the village, as required by this chapter shall install any
automatic protection device or telephonic alarm system or key the same to a
special trunkline.
   (F)   (1)   Every alarm equipment supplier who has keyed any automatic
protection device to a special trunkline shall furnish the communications
center with a current list of such installations, showing the following:
         (a)   Name, residence address, and telephone number of owner or
lessee.
         (b)   Address of place where device is installed and telephone number
at that location.
         (c)   Name and telephone number of any other person(s) at a different
location who is authorized to respond to an emergency and open the place where
the device is installed.
      (2)   Within ten days after the end of each quarter following the last
month included in the initial list, every alarm equipment supplier shall
furnish the communications center with a supplemental list of any such
additional installations that he has keyed to a special trunkline, along with
any corrections or deletions.
   (G)   Automatic protection devices or telephonic alarm systems installed on
premises of any kind that are keyed to a special trunkline shall meet the
following minimum operational requirements.
      (1)   The content of the type of recorded message to be transmitted by
such device must be intelligible and in a format approved by the communications
center concerned as appropriate for the nature of the alarm.
      (2)   No recorded message shall be delivered to the Police Department
more than three times as the result of a single stimulus of the sensory
mechanism.
      (3)   The length of time for transmitting the recorded message must not
exceed 15 seconds.
      (4)   The time gap between delivery of each recorded message must be in
the range from 10 to 12 seconds.
      (5)   Such device must be capable of transmitting an alarm message to two
or more recipients, so that upon installation, any message will be sent not
only on a special trunkline, but also on the line of an authorized person
having a key to the premises who is available to respond to an emergency.
      (6)   The sensory mechanism used in connection with such devices must be
adjusted to suppress false indications of fire or intrusion, so that the
devices will not be actuated by impulses due to transient pressure changes in
water pipes, short flashes of light, wind noises such as the rattling or
vibrating of doors or windows, vehicular noise adjacent to the installation, or
other forces unrelated to genuine alarms.
      (7)   All components comprising such a device must be maintained by the
owner or lessee in good repair to assure reliability of operation.
   (H)   Each alarm equipment supplier that sells or leases to a person an
automatic protection device which is installed on such person's premises, and
which is keyed to a special trunkline, shall furnish that person with
instructions as to the way the device operates, along with a maintenance manual
and a correct circuit diagram pertaining to such device.
   (I)   Each alarm equipment supplier, as referred to in division (H) above,
shall also furnish the communications center with a copy of the instructions as
to the way the device operates, along with a maintenance manual and a correct
circuit diagram. If the communications center finds such to be incomplete,
unclear, or otherwise inadequate, he may require the alarm equipment supplier
to have the same revised to meet the communications center's approval and then
promptly distributed to persons for whom installations of such devices have
already been made as well as to persons for whom installations are henceforth
made.
   (J)   Each alarm equipment supplier that sells or leases to a person an
automatic protection device which is installed on such person's premises, and
which is keyed to a special trunkline, must offer service, directly or through
an agent, on a 24 hour basis, seven days a week, to repair such device, so as
to correct any malfunction of same that may occur.
   (K)   At the time of installation, each alarm equipment supplier shall
furnish to the person for whom an automatic protection device has been
installed, written information as to how service can be obtained at any time,
including the telephone number to call for service; and such person shall be
responsible for having the device repaired as quickly as possible after he
learns, either from his own sources or from notification by the communications
center or any member of the Police Department, that the device is not working
properly.
   (L)   When messages evidencing failure to comply with the operational
requirements herein set forth are received by the communications center and the
Department Chief concerned concludes that the automatic protection device
sending such messages should be disconnected in order to relieve the burden of
responding to false alarms, he is authorized to demand that the owner or lessee
of such device, or his representative at the place where it is installed,
disconnect such device until it is made to comply with said operational
requirements. If disconnection of the defective automatic protection device is
not accomplished promptly by such demand, and the Department Chief concerned
determines that one malfunctioning device is repeatedly sending false alarms in
succession without any intermittent valid alarms, he may then take whatever
steps are necessary to disconnect the defective automatic protection device.
   (M)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
communications center and the Chief of the Police Department shall each have
the authority, at reasonable times and upon oral notice, to enter upon any
premises to inspect the installation and operation of an automatic protection
device or signaling device, the purpose of which is to report an emergency to
the communications center or the Police Department, either directly or through
an intermediary.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER.
   Each alarm equipment supplier engaged in selling or leasing, and/or
installing automatic protection devices for keying to a special trunkline or an
operator trunkline shall apply for a license on a form to be furnished by the
communications center. Any person who desires to become an alarm equipment
supplier and who proposes to key automatic protection devices either to a
special trunkline or an operator trunkline, shall first apply for a license on
a form to be furnished by the communications center. Each application shall be
signed by the individual proprietor of such business or by a partner or
authorized corporate official, as appropriate for the type of business
organization, and shall include the information required by the communications
center and submit the fee required herein.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.04 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED.
   The village and communications center shall take every reasonable precaution
to assure that alarm signals and prerecorded alarm messages received by the
communications center or village are given appropriate attention and are acted
upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the village and the communications center
shall not be liable for any defects in operation of automatic protection
devices and signal line systems, for any failure or neglect to respond
appropriately upon receipt of an alarm from such a source nor for the failure
or neglect of any person with a license issued pursuant to this chapter or with
a franchise, in connection with the installation and operation of equipment,
the transmission of alarm signals and prerecorded alarm messages, or the
relaying of such signals and messages. In the event that the village or
communications center finds it necessary to disconnect a defective automatic
protection device or signaling device, then neither the village nor the
communications center shall incur liability by such action.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.05 FEES.
   (A)   Each application for permit to install a telephonic alarm system shall
be accompanied by an installation fee to be established by the Board of
Trustees. As a condition to granting a permit to maintain and operate said
system, an annual fee to be established by the Board of Trustees shall be paid
in advance for each year of operation of said system.
   (B)   Each application for permit to install a burglar alarm system,
automatic protection device, or a signaling device which utilizes a signal line
to activate an indicator on the central control board located at the
communications center shall be accompanied by an installation fee to be
established by the Board of Trustees. As a condition to granting a permit to
operate and maintain such a device or system, an annual fee to be established
by the Board of Trustees shall be paid in advance for each year of operation of
said system.
   (C)   Each application for a permit or license for an alarm equipment
supplier shall be accompanied by a fee to be established by the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Failure to pay annual operation fees on or before January 1 in each
year shall result in disconnection of the burglar alarm system, automatic
protection device, or signaling device from the control panel at the
communications center after the expiration of 15 days from the date such permit
holder receives written notice from the communications center of his failure to
pay said annual operation fee, or in the case of telephonic alarm system
operational fees, any such system shall be disconnected and removed by the
permit holder within 15 days from the date notice of such failure to pay is
received by the permit holder.
   (E)   False alarm fees.
      (1)   In the event that more than three alarms are received by the
communications center from a permit holder under the terms and provisions of
this chapter during a one calendar year period, which are determined by the
Chief of Police or communications center to be due to human error, mechanical
difficulty or in any way a false alarm, then and in that event, such permit
holder shall pay a fee to be established by the Board of Trustees for the
fourth such false alarm during any such one year period. For each additional
false alarm thereafter in any such one year period an additional fee to be
established by the Board of Trustees per false alarm shall be paid by such
permit holder to the communications center.
      (2)   All false alarm fees provided for by this division shall be paid by
the person, firm, corporation, or business owning or in possession of the
premises within 30 days from the date the false alarm fee bill thereof is
deposited in a mail box of the U.S. Postage Service with the postage fully
prepaid addressed to the above described person or entity. Failure to pay such
fee as required in this division shall be punishable by prosecution by the
village or institution of such other appropriate procedures as determined by
the village, including disconnection of the alarm from the central board of the
communications center.
      (3)   In the event any person, firm, corporation, or business owning or
in possession of any premises within the corporate limits of the village has
any automatic protection device, signaling device, or other type of burglar
alarm system or automatic protection device not attached to or originally
transmitted to the communications center which emits any visual, audible, or
any other type of signal, transmits, displays, or otherwise emits more than
three false alarms during any calendar year, which alarm is falsely activated
as a result of, but not limited to, human error, mechanical failure, or
difficulty or malfunction in the system, then in such instance the person,
firm, business, or corporation shall pay a false alarm fee to be established by
the Board of Trustees to the village a false alarm fee to be established by the
Board of Trustees per false alarm for the fourth such alarm during any one
calendar year and shall pay to thereafter in any one calendar year.
      (4)   The Police Department of the village shall maintain records which
shall be prima facie evidence of the dates the village received and
investigated any false alarms for each premises located within the corporate
limits of the village and further, the Police Department shall notify the
person, firm, corporation, or business owning or in control of such premises
after the third false alarm of the false alarm fees required under this
chapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72; Am. Ord. 1097, passed 9-19-83)
TELEPHONIC ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 91.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain a telephonic alarm system which
automatically transmits a signal message or warning to any village police
department or communications center telephone line, without first obtaining a
permit as required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for permits to install, maintain, or operate a telephonic
alarm system which is intended to automatically transmit a signal, message or
warning to any police department or communications center telephone line shall
be filed with the chief of the concerned department on forms supplied by the
communications center, together with an application fee as herein set forth.
Said application shall set forth the name, address, and telephone number of
both the installer of the system and the person or business on whose premises
the system will be installed, as well as a description of the system and the
location where it is proposed to be installed.
   (B)   The chief of the concerned department shall approve such application
if he finds that the following applies.
      (1)   The use of said alarm system to transmit a signal, message or
warning to a designated Police Department telephone line will not interfere
with the orderly conduct of the communications center.
      (2)   The person installing the system maintains an adequate service
organization to repair, maintain, and otherwise service telephonic alarm
systems sold or leased by him. The Police Chief or the communications center
may impose reasonable conditions on the exercise of said permit.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.22 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The chief of the concerned department or the communications center shall
have the right to inspect any telephonic alarm system on the premises where it
is intended to function prior to issuance of any permit for its operation and
he may cause an inspection of such system to be made at any time after issuance
of a permit to determine whether it is being used in conformity with the terms
of the permit and the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.23 RESTRICTED NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install, operate
or maintain a telephonic alarm system which automatically transmits a signal,
message, or warning to any police department or the communications center
telephone line, except to such telephone number or numbers as designated by the
permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 REVOCATION.
   The chief of the concerned department of the communications center may
revoke any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, after
giving written notice to the permit holder and an opportunity for the permit
holder to be heard, if it is determined that the telephonic alarm system
installed pursuant to said permit has been installed, maintained or operated in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, or of any term or condition of
said permit, or for failure to pay the service fee specified herein.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.25 ANNUAL PERMIT.
    Each permit holder shall pay to the communications center a fee in the
amount herein set forth to reimburse the communications center for the cost of
providing special telephone lines to receive calls from telephonic alarm
systems and other expenses of operation.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 91.30 SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION OF CONTROL BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to manufacture, install, operate, or assemble any
electrical control board or signaling device designed to be used as a burglar
alarm system, unless such manufacture, installation, or assembly is supervised
by the communications center or Police Inspector. Any such board or signaling
device not manufactured or assembled in the village shall be inspected and
approved by said Police Inspector or the Chief of Police as a prerequisite to
granting a permit.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 PERMIT.
   No electric board, signaling device, or control system, covering burglar
alarm devices connected with the communications center or Police Department
shall be installed without the permission of the communications center.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   Any corporation, person, or individual servicing any commercial or
industrial establishment with such system shall submit said plan to the Chief
of Police or the communications center, and such system shall be controlled and
operated through the central control board, owned and operated by the
communications center.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.33 INSTALLATION.
   The installation of any such alarm on any premises in the village shall be
installed under the supervision of the Chief of Police and the communications
center.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter to the end that said system may be unified and operated through one
control board.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.35 OPERATION.
   The communications center shall decide all questions arising as to the use
and operation of such systems, through the electric control board of the
communications center.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.36 FEES.
   Before permission is granted to any person, or persons, for the installation
of a burglar alarm system, the installation and service fees shall be paid in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter to the communications center.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure of any person to comply with the requirements of written
notice of a violation of any provision hereof within three days of receipt of
such notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, shall constitute an
offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $750. Such notice shall continue in
force and effect until full compliance with the requirements stated therein,
and each and every failure to comply with such notice within 24 hours after the
three days allowed for compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm, business, or corporation who is the owner or in
possession of any premises which fails to pay any false alarm fees within the
time enumerated in §
91.05 shall be subject to prosecution by the village and upon conviction,
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each such false
alarm.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-20-72; Am. Ord. 1097, passed 9-19-83; Am. Ord. 1943,
passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Cruelty to animals
   
92.03   Disturbing the peace
   
92.04   Keeping of certain animals restricted
   
92.05   Housing animals
   
92.06   Running at large
   
92.07   Dogs on school yards
   
92.08   Animal excrement
   
92.09   Number of dogs/cats
   
92.10   Vaccination (inoculation against rabies)
   
92.11   Dangerous and vicious dogs
   
92.12   Diseased animals
   
92.13   Licensing (Frankfort ID tags)
   
92.14   Impoundment of dogs, cats, and other animals
   
92.15   Interference with officers
   
92.16   Liability of owner of dog, cat or other animal attacking or injuring
person or animal
   
92.17   Right of entry for inspections, apprehension of dogs, cats or other
animals
   
92.18   Animal to animal bites or abrasions
   
92.19   Animal to human bites or abrasions
   
92.20   Nuisances
   
92.21   Enforcement; exemption from liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The employee(s) or designee(s) of the Village of
Frankfort including the Frankfort Township, Illinois Animal Control Officer,
authorized to exercise policing powers in the enforcement of this chapter and
animal control laws of Illinois.
   AT LARGE. Animals not confined or otherwise restrained or controlled in an
enclosure or by leash or lead.
   BITTEN or BITES. An animal that has seized, gripped, wounded or pierced any
person or animal with its teeth or jaw.
   CAT. Felis catus (Feline family).
   CONFINED. The restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, to an
escape-proof building, house or other enclosure away from other animals and the
public.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLED. Any animal that is fully secured and restrained by a
leash or lead line of sufficient strength not more than five feet in length, a
run line, or confined.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious physical injury.
   DEFECATION CONTROL. The immediate removal and sanitary disposal of animal
excrement from any property, public or private, including property of the
owner.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae (Canine family).
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious or dangerous dog in conjunction with other
measures that may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the
vicious or dangerous dog within the enclosure. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely
enclosed and locked and designated to prevent the animal from escaping from the
enclosure. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a residence, it cannot have direct
ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless it leads directly to an enclosed
pen and the door must be locked. A vicious or dangerous dog may be allowed to
move about freely within the entire residence if it is muzzled at all times.
   FRANKFORT ID TAGS or ANIMAL TAGS or FRANKFORT TOWNSHIP ID TAGS. Tags issued
by the Village or Frankfort Township on the village’s behalf upon the owner’s
application which includes a current certification from a State of Illinois
licensed veterinarian that the animal has been fully and currently inoculated
against rabies and otherwise poses no medical condition which would affect
human beings or other animals.
   GUARD DOG. A dog used in a commercial business for the purposes of patrol
and protection security.
   GUIDE DOG. A dog trained by a recognized organization to lead the legally
blind, the hearing impaired or support dogs for the physically handicapped
person.
   HOME CONFINEMENT. Maintaining the animal within the residence of the owner
possessing the animal or on the property of the owner, as long as it is
controlled or confined.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the animal control facility.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of a rabies vaccine approved by
the Illinois Department of Agriculture and administered by a veterinarian
licensed by the State of Illinois in accordance with the vaccination
manufacturer’s recommendations for its use.
   INTACT ANIMAL. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
   LEASH and/or LEAD. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely
fastened to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of
sufficient strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   NUISANCE. Any animal(s) which runs at large, damages private or public
property or barks, whines, or howls in an excessive, continuous, or untimely
manner. For purposes of this chapter, barking, howling or whining on a
repetitive basis over a 20-minute period is a NUISANCE.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps,
maintains, possesses or harbors an animal, or who has it in his or her care, or
acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on any premises
occupied by him or her.
   PARCEL. Any legally recorded piece of land.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association
or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the State of
Illinois, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state, or any
other business unit.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of physical condition.
   POLICE ANIMAL. An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department or agency’s work.
   POUND. Any facility approved by the Animal Control Officer for the purpose
of enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for seized stray, homeless and
abandoned animals.
   RUN LINE. A system of tying an animal with a collar and clasp of adequate
strength in a place with either a rope, cable or chain having a tensile
strength sufficient to fully restrain and control the animal within the owner’s
private property and when the run line is fully extended, it is at least three
feet from the adjoining property or any public property.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Those animals which are not under control or confined as
defined in this section.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or plastic surgery.
   SEIZE. To enter upon public or private property, for the purpose of
impounding any dog, cat, or other animal considered by the Animal Control
Officer to be in violation of this chapter.
   STRAYING. A dog, cat or other animal not on the premises of the owner or not
controlled or confined as set forth in this chapter.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the State of
Illinois who engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any one of the following:
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked bites or attacks a human being or
other animal either on public or private property.
         (b)   Any dog which on at least one prior occasion attempted to or
did, without provocation or with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or animals.
         (c)   Any dog that has a trait or characteristic generally known for a
reputation for viciousness, dangerousness, of making unprovoked attacks upon
human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or with
special equipment.
         (d)   Any dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation.
         (e)   Any individual dog which has been determined by a veterinarian
or governmental animal control authority to be a dangerous dog on three prior
separate occasions.
      (2)   However, no dog shall be deemed vicious:
         (a)   If it bites, attacks or menaces a trespasser on the property of
its owner or anyone who has harmed, tormented or abused it; or
         (b)   It is a professionally trained dog used as a guard dog or police
animal.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07)
§ 92.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of any animal shall provide:
      (1)   Sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome, food and water;
      (2)   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather;
      (3)   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering; and
      (4)   Humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No owner or person may beat, abuse, cruelly treat, torment, starve,
overwork or otherwise abuse any animal.
   (C)   No owner may abandon any animal.
   (D)   No owner shall confine any animal in a motor vehicle or enclosure in
such a manner that places it in a life or health threatening situation by
exposure to a prolonged period of extreme heat or cold or without sufficient
food or water.
(Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No owner shall allow an animal to disturb or disrupt the peace or
tranquility of any person.
   (B)   No owner shall allow any dog to repetitively bark during a 20-minute
period in any area where the dog’s bark would carry to other properties.
(Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall house, keep, maintain any animal or allow to run at large
any domestic animal of the species known as horses, mules, cattle, sheep,
goats, swine, or domestic fowl of the species of geese, ducks, turkeys,
pigeons, and chickens, on any property located within the corporate limits of
the village except only such persons to whom a special temporary permit shall
be issued by the Board of Trustees of the village.
(Ord. 463, passed 10-3-55; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 HOUSING ANIMALS.
   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or
may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to keep
any live swine or pigs anywhere in the village.
(Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   An owner shall not permit any animal to run at large upon streets,
sidewalk, alleys, parkway, or any unenclosed or other public places or private
property excluding the property of the owner or as otherwise prohibited by law.
   (B)   An owner shall not allow an animal upon the private property of
another without the prior permission of the property owner or lessee of the
property.
   (C)   Dog packs. Any dog gathering in a dog pack is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and shall be taken up and impounded, and may be redeemed or destroyed
as provided by this chapter. Any owner of a dog whose dog shall be found to be
in a dog pack shall be punished as provided herein.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed
9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   For circumstances under which dogs are considered nuisances, see §
92.20
§ 92.07 DOGS ON SCHOOL YARDS.
   An owner shall not allow any dog to be on school grounds unless directly
controlled by its owner.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   The owner of any animal shall not permit any animal to defecate on any
public place, public way or upon private property unless the owner immediately
removes and properly disposes of such excrements.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to
immediately remove excrement left by the animal on property, whether public or
private, not owned or possessed by the person. The excrement shall be removed
to a proper receptacle located on property owned or possessed by the owner.
   (C)   An owner of any animal shall not allow excrement to accumulate in any
yard, pen, or premises in or upon which the animal is confined.
   (D)   This provision does not apply to any person who is handicapped and is
utilizing a seeing eye dog.
(Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 NUMBER OF DOGS/CATS.
   No owner or person shall keep, maintain, harbor, permit or allow more than
three dogs or cats or any combination thereof, per dwelling unit.
(Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 VACCINATION (INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES).
   (A)   Duty; tag. The owner of any dog, cat or ferret over four months of
age, kept, maintained, possessed or harbored within the village shall cause the
dog, cat or ferret to receive from a veterinarian a rabies vaccine once each
year, or as otherwise required by law, and shall maintain on its collar a tag,
evidencing such current vaccination.
   (B)   Certificate. The vaccination of dogs, cats or ferrets as required by
this chapter shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice in
Illinois. Upon administering such vaccination, such veterinarian shall issue to
the owner a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to such owner
or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the collar of such
dog.
   (C)   Duration. The vaccination performed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be effective until the expiration of one year from the date the
vaccination was performed or such extended effective period of the vaccination
as allowed by law.
   (D)   Exhibition of certificate. At any reasonable time upon the request of
the Animal Control Officer or other enforcement officer, the owner of any
unmuzzled dog shall exhibit a certificate, issued under the provisions of this
chapter, showing the vaccination of any dog owned or controlled by him or her.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   After an investigation including sending within ten business days of
the Animal Control Officer becoming aware of the alleged infraction,
notification to the owner of the dog involved in the alleged infractions, the
fact of the initiation of an investigation, and affording the owner an
opportunity to meet with the Animal Control Officer prior to the making of a
determination; gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence; interviewing
witnesses; and making a detailed written report to deem a dog to be
be “dangerous.” No dog shall be deemed a “dangerous dog” or “vicious dog”
unless shown to be a dangerous/vicious dog by a preponderance of evidence. The
owner shall be sent immediate notification of the determination by registered
or certified mail that includes a complete description of the appeal process.
   (B)   A dog shall not be declared dangerous if it is determined the conduct
of the dog was justified because:
      (1)   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property occupied by the
owner of the animal;
      (2)   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring;
      (3)   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
      (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
   (C)   If deemed dangerous or vicious, the Animal Control Officer shall
order:
      (1)   The dog to be spayed or neutered within 14 days at the owner’s
expense and micro-chipped, if not already; and
      (2)   One or more of the following as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public:
         (a)   Direct supervision by an adult 18 years of age or older whenever
the animal is not confined or controlled on the owner’s property.
         (b)   The Animal Control Officer may order a dangerous dog to be
muzzled whenever it is not confined or controlled on the owner’s property.
         (c)   Vicious dogs will have additional compliance.
   (D)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped and police-owned dogs are exempt from this section;
provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is performing
duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this division (D), each dog
shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with law and
performing duties as expected.
   (E)   An Animal Control Officer has the right to impound a dangerous and
vicious dog if the owner fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter
and state law.
(Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of an animal afflicted with a contagious disease or an
infectious disease shall not permit such animal to run at large, or to be
exposed in any public place or on private property where a
person or other animal may be affected, nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except under the
supervision of the Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   If directed by the Animal Control Officer, the owner shall cause to
secure the disposition of any diseased animal and premises as to prevent the
communication or spread of contagion or infection.
   (C)   The owner of a diseased animal shall secure the humane and safe
disposition of the animal and shall immediately fully clean and sanitize all
areas which were possible affected by the animal.
(Ord. 1702, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 LICENSING (FRANKFORT ID TAGS).
   (A)   The owner of any dog or cat kept, maintained or located within the
village shall within 14 days of the dog or cat being within the village and on
or before January 1 of each year thereafter apply and pay for an animal license
to the Clerk of the village or Frankfort Township, Will County, Illinois. As
part of the application, the owner shall submit certification from a
veterinarian that the dog or cat sought to be licensed has received all
inoculations and vaccines as may be required by law, including for rabies.
   (B)   License tag. On completion of all requirements under this chapter and
applicable law, the village or Frankfort Township shall issue a license tag
bearing the name of the Frankfort or Frankfort Township and the year of
issuance. The village and Frankfort Township shall keep a record of all such
licenses. The owner shall securely affix and maintain the tag on the collar of
the licensed dog or cat.
   (C)   Replacement license. If any license issued within five business days
by the village is lost, the owner shall apply to the village for a duplicate
license and submit all certifications required when originally issued.
   (D)   The current village animal license fee is $5 for all or any portion of
a calendar year.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 892, passed 7-21-75; Am. Ord. 2414, passed
9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS, CATS, AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   Upon receiving any dog, cat or other animal, the Animal Control Officer
shall immediately make a complete registry as may be required by law.
   (A)   Notice. In case of impounding, and where the address of the owner of
any animal is disclosed by any license tag worn by it, or is otherwise known to
be the Animal Control Officer or by inquiry can be ascertained, the Animal
Control Officer shall give notice by mail to the owner of the impounding of the
animal.
   (B)   Release from pound.
      (1)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter or
otherwise provided by law, unless sooner released, shall be held for the period
of seven days in order to afford opportunity to the owner thereof to secure its
release. Any such owner desiring to release his or her impounded animal shall
pay an apprehension fee of $50 for the animal’s first impoundment. If any
animal is impounded on more than one occasion, the owner may be ordered to pay
an apprehension fee up to the following amounts:
         (a)   Second impoundment - $ 100.
         (b)   Third impoundment - $ 150.
         (c)   Fourth or more impoundment - $ 200.
      (2)   In addition to the apprehension fee, the owner shall pay the daily
boarding costs to keep the animal impounded.
      (3)   If the animal is not currently vaccinated, the owner shall pay all
costs associated with having the animal vaccinated by some duly licensed
veterinarian as he or she shall elect and the pound keeper shall forthwith
cause the dog to be duly vaccinated. No dog shall be released which does not
have a current rabies vaccination or current Frankfort ID. Payment is due for
impoundment fee and daily board at time of release. Upon the payment of the
required charges, the dog shall thereupon be released to the owner.
   (C)   Any dog, cat, or other animal impounded under the provision of this
section and not released to its owner within seven days of its impound may be
disposed of at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No owner shall hinder or molest the Animal Control Officer while engaged in
seizing, capturing, and delivering any animal.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF DOG, CAT OR OTHER ANIMAL ATTACKING OR INJURING
PERSON OR ANIMAL.
   If a dog or other animal without provocation attacks or injures any person
or animal who is peaceably conducting himself, herself or itself in any place
where the person or animal may lawfully be, the owner of such dog or other
animal is liable for damages, to such person, for the full amount of the injury
sustained.
(Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS, APPREHENSION OF DOG, CATS OR OTHER
ANIMALS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Animal
Control Officer may enter upon private premises to apprehend a stray dog or
other animal, a dangerous dog or other animal or a dog or other animal thought
to be infected with rabies.
(Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 ANIMAL TO ANIMAL BITES OR ABRASIONS.
   The owner of any animal shall report all animal bites or abrasions inflicted
on the owner’s animal to the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 ANIMAL TO HUMAN BITES OR ABRASIONS.
   The owner of any animal shall immediately report if the owner’s animal bites
any person or other animal to the Animal Control Officer as well as the Will
County Animal Control.
(Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 NUISANCES.
   No owner shall allow a dog to bark, howl or whine in an excessive,
continuous or untimely manner. Any dog which may in any manner disturb the
quiet of any person or neighborhood, shall destroy or in any manner injure any
animal, plant, shrub, or other property not on the premises of its owner or
keeper is hereby declared a nuisance. Such violation or declaration shall
constitute a public nuisance and be subject to a fine and/or impoundment and
may be redeemed or destroyed in the manner provided by this chapter. Licensed
kennel operators and dog dealers as defined in the Illinois Animal Welfare Act
are exempt from this section.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-6-69; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Dog packs as nuisances, see §
92.06
§ 92.21 ENFORCEMENT; EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY.
   The village, its Animal Control Officer, the village’s designees and other
persons authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter shall not be held
liable for the injury, death, or disease which may occur to any dog, cat or
other animal as a consequence of the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to and not in lieu of any other penalties or remedies available
at law or equity, any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each and every
violation thereof, and every day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 2414, passed 9-17-07)
CHAPTER 93: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Littering prohibited
   
93.03   Throwing litter from vehicle; transportation of litter
   
93.04   Accumulation of litter on property
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance, matter, or waste.
LITTER may include, but is not necessarily limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, rubbish, grass clippings, or other lawn waste, newspaper, magazine,
glass, metal, plastic, or any type of container or other packing or
construction material, wood, abandoned motor vehicle as defined by law, motor
vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary matter which
has been carried, abandoned, or otherwise disposed of improperly.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and includes, but is
not limited to, mopeds, motorcycles, motorbikes, motor scooters, and including
automobiles, trucks, vans, recreational vehicles, semi-trailer trucks, busses
and also pedacycles which are equipped with operational pedals for propulsion
by human power and equipped with a power drive shaft which functions directly
or automatically only and not requiring shifting by the operator while the
drive cylinder is engaged.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity or their legal agent, representative, or assign.
(Ord. 1036, passed 2-18-80)
§ 93.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause to permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property within the corporate limits of the village,
or upon or into any river, pond, stream or other body of water unless the
following situations exist.
   (A)   The property has been designated by the state or any of its agencies
or the village, for the disposal of litter and the litter is disposed of on
that property in accordance and compliance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the State Pollution Control Board or other controlling
governmental and regulatory board.
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container or enclosed
depository intended by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that
property for the disposal of litter.
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the express consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard.
   (D)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
directing special clean-up days.
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened and removal from the property of such
litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(Ord. 1036, passed 2-18-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE; TRANSPORTATION OF LITTER.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, or cause
to permit the dropping, depositing, throwing, discarding, or leaving of litter
from any motor vehicle upon any public highway or public way or upon any public
or private property or upon or into any river, pond, stream, or body of water
within the corporate limits of the village, except as permitted under §
93.02.
   (B)   No person shall transport by any means any litter, garbage, or refuse
from any dwelling, residence, place, farm, or other site and deposit such
material in, around, on, or on top of a trash barrel or other receptacle placed
along public highways or public ways or roadside rest area situated in the
corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that
the operator of that motor vehicle has violated this section, but this
presumption may be rebutted.
(Ord. 1036, passed 2-18-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER ON PROPERTY.
   No person who is the owner or in possession of any real property shall allow
any litter to collect, accumulate, or be deposited upon such real property in
such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the
litter may be blown or otherwise carried by natural elements to the real
property of another person. For purposes of this chapter the Board of Trustees
of the village designate litter as herein defined as a public nuisance if it is
allowed to collect or accumulate on any real property for more than seven days.
(Ord. 1036, passed 2-18-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of violating any section of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each offense. For
purposes of this chapter, each day the violation continues shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   In addition to any fine imposed under this chapter the village may
request and the court may order that the person or persons convicted of any
violation of this chapter remove and properly dispose of the litter and, if
said person fails to so comply within a certain date the court may authorize
the village or its duly authorized agent, to supervise such removal and
disposal with all of the costs of such supervision, removal, and disposal taxed
against the person so convicted.
   (C)   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition, and not in
lieu of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law.
(Ord. 1036, passed 2-18-80)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES; WEEDS
Section
Noise
   
94.01   Construction noise
Weeds
   
94.10   Definitions
   
94.11   Weeds and litter on property
   
94.12   Certain weeds declared a nuisance
   
94.13   Abatement procedure
   
94.14   Notice of violation
   
94.15   Lien for removal costs
   
94.16   Lien for costs of removal, securing and enclosing on abandoned
residential property
Open Burning
   
94.25   Burning of leaves
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Excessive noise from operation of motor vehicle, see
Ch. 75
NOISE
§ 94.01 CONSTRUCTION NOISE.
   (A)   Times. The noise emanating from construction or maintenance activities
occurring within residential zoned districts of the village including but not
limited to noises such as hammering, sawing, drilling, excavating, heavy
construction vehicles and equipment operation, pumping, and sandblasting is
prohibited except when the noise occurs between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays;
and the noise does not cause a public nuisance.
   (B)   Exemptions. Noise emanating from village, county or state authorized
emergency, repair or maintenance projects occurring within residential zoned
districts are exempt from this provision.
(Ord. 1463, passed 6-20-94) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-references:
   Dog packs as nuisances, see §
92.06
   For circumstances under which dogs are considered nuisances, see §
92.20
WEEDS
§ 94.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Scattered remains: ruins; discarded waste: litter.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   REFUSE. Something rejected or discarded as worthless: trash.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other
combustible materials; paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   TRASH. Worthless, discarded material; junk.
   WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, thistles, cockleburrs, Canada
thistles and all of its varieties, perennial sow thistles, European Bentwood,
Leafy Spurge, Russian Knapwood, Johnson Grass, Giant Foxtail, Hoary Cress,
Jimson, Burdock, Cockleburrs, Ragweed and similar weeds and all weeds which,
due to pollution are a menace to health, are, for purposes of this section,
deemed noxious weeds.
(Ord. 1103, passed 1-3-84; Am. Ord. 1581, passed 6-17-96)
§ 94.11 WEEDS AND LITTER ON PROPERTY.
   All record fee title owners, beneficiaries of any trust holding title to any
real estate, individual(s), partnership, firm, or corporation owning,
occupying, or in any way in possession of any property within the corporate
limits of the village shall fully comply with each of the following
requirements.
   (A)   All grasses used for landscaping purposes, excluding ornamental
grasses, shall not exceed six inches in height at any time of the year and/or
in any season of the year. All grasses grown wild on vacant property shall not
exceed eight inches in height at any time of the year and/or in any season of
the year.
   (B)   No person owning, leasing, occupying or controlling any plot of real
estate shall permit the growth of noxious weeds thereon. All weeds shall be
pulled or otherwise destroyed by the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person
in control of real estate in the village. Failure to destroy such weeds within
the designated period shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (C)   Promptly remove and eliminate any debris, refuse, garbage, rubbish,
trash, materials new or discarded and deposits of deposed articles or material.
Promptly remove all dead grass, dry leaves or similar dangerous flammable
material on the property.
   (D)   Promptly remove and eliminate any weeds or vegetation specifically
barred or in any other way prohibited by state statute or regulation,
including, but not limited to, marijuana.
(Ord. 1103, passed 1-3-84; Am. Ord. 1581, passed 6-17-96; Am. Ord. 2415, passed
9-17-07) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 CERTAIN WEEDS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   All weeds and vegetation which are not cut, removed, or eliminated (as
required herein) or all dead grass, dry weeds, or other flammable material
remaining on such property or debris, refuse, or deposits of disposed or
discarded materials which are subject to this subchapter are deemed a public
nuisance to the village.
   (B)   In addition to any other remedies provided herein, the village may
institute proceedings to abate such nuisances by appropriate judicial
proceedings.
(Ord. 1103, passed 1-3-84) Penalty, see §
94.99 
§ 94.13 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In addition to the penalty provision provided, in the event of the
refusal or neglect by the owner or owners and/or occupiers of the property to
cut, destroy and/or remove weeds and combustible material or otherwise comply
with the terms of §
94.11, the village at its sole option and election, may enter upon said
premises and correct the violations of this subchapter at the expense of the
owner or owners of the premises, with all costs and charges associated with
such work being the debt and obligation of and payable to the village by such
owner or owners and/or occupiers of said premises. The cost and expense
incurred by the village, or by the person or firm performing the service by
authority of the village, in the removal or cutting down of such weeds or
grasses, removal and elimination of any debris, refuse or deposits of disposed
articles or material on such real property including reasonable attorney's
fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real estate affected, and a lien shall
be enforced as provided by statute.
   (B)   Any lien permitted by this subchapter may be enforced by obtaining a
judgment against the owner or owners and/or occupiers of said property for such
charges and costs of suit, or by filing a claim for lien therefor in the County
Recorder’s Office, giving the description of the property, itemizing the
charges and giving the date thereof, said claim for lien to be supported by
affidavit, and which said claim for lien may be foreclosed in the manner
provided by law for foreclosure of other statutory liens.
   (C)   All remedies provided herein are deemed cumulative so that the use or
implementation of one remedy does not bar or preclude the use of any other
available remedy for such violators.
(Ord. 1103, passed 1-3-84; Am. Ord. 1581, passed 6-17-96)
§ 94.14 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Director of Code Enforcement or such other authorized village official,
or representative thereof, shall serve or cause to be served an annual notice
representing that it will be the only correspondence from the village regarding
this subchapter, and in the event of violation the village will remedy the
condition according to the terms of this subchapter upon any person owning,
leasing, occupying or controlling any vacant, unimproved real estate in the
village. Said notice shall contain language requiring such person to remove or
cut down the weeds, remove and eliminate any debris, refuse, garbage, rubbish,
trash or deposits of disposed articles or material constituting such nuisance
within seven days from the date of the notice, or said notice may be given by
any one of the four following described methods:
   (A)   By a written notice sent by United States regular and/or certified
mail, postage prepaid, to the last known person owning, leasing, occupying or
controlling the real estate, and as to the owner, the notice may be addressed
to the address shown on the most recent tax bill for the real estate; or
   (B)   By a written notice personally delivered by the Director or such other
authorized village representative to the person owning, leasing, occupying, or
controlling the real estate; or
   (C)   By posting or tagging a written notice on the property of the person
owning, leasing, occupying, or controlling the real estate upon which the
violation exists. Said notice shall state the date of the posting or tagging
and shall provide that said weeds shall be destroyed not later than seven days
after the notice has been posted or tagged on said property.
   (D)   At the election of the village the person owning, leasing, occupying
or controlling any real estate in the village may be notified by the village by
regular or certified mail of the village's intent to serve an annual notice.
This notice shall contain the necessary language to conform with this
subchapter and also contain the language notifying the owner, lessee, tenant,
occupant or person in control of real estate in the village that this will be
the only correspondence from the village regarding this subchapter and in the
event of violation the village will remedy the condition according to the terms
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1103, passed 1-3-84; Am. Ord. 1581, passed 6-17-96)
§ 94.15 LIEN FOR REMOVAL COSTS.
   (A)   If the village incurs a removal cost under §§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14 with respect to any underlying parcel, then that cost is a lien upon that
underlying parcel. This lien is superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens and as otherwise provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   To perfect a lien under this section, the village must, within
one year after the removal cost is incurred, file notice of lien in the office
of the Recorder in the county in which the underlying parcel is located or, if
the underlying parcel is registered under the Torrens system, in the office of
the Registrar of Titles of that county. The notice must consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the underlying parcel that sufficiently
identifies the parcel;
         (b)   The amount of the removal cost; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by the
village.
      (2)   If, for any one parcel, the village engaged in any removal activity
on more than one occasion during the course of one year, then the village may
combine any or all of the costs of each of those activities into a single
notice of lien.
   (C)   A lien under this section is not valid as to:
      (1)   Any purchaser whose rights in and to the underlying parcel arose
after the removal activity but before the filing of the notice of lien; or
      (2)   Any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or other lienor whose rights in
and to the underlying parcel arose before the filing of the notice of lien.
   (D)   The removal cost is not a lien on the underlying parcel unless a
notice is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the
taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The notice must be
delivered or sent after the removal activities have been performed, and it
must:
      (1)   State the substance of this section and the substance of any
ordinance of the village implementing this section;
      (2)   Identify the underlying parcel, by common description; and
      (3)   Describe the removal activity.
   (E)   A lien under this section may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose
as in case of mortgages or mechanics liens. An action to foreclose a lien under
this section must be commenced within two years after the date of filing notice
of lien.
   (F)   Any person who performs a removal activity by the authority of the
village may, in his or her own name, file a lien and foreclose on that lien in
the same manner as the village under this section.
   (G)   A failure to file a foreclosure action does not, in any way, affect
the validity of the lien against the underlying parcel.
   (H)   Upon payment of the lien cost by the owner of the underlying parcel
after notice of lien has been filed, the village (or its agent under division
(F)) shall release the lien, and the release may be filed of record by the
owner at his or her sole expense as in the case of filing notice of lien.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIEN COST. The removal cost and the filing costs for any notice of lien
under division (B).
      REMOVAL ACTIVITY. Any activity for which a removal cost was incurred.
      REMOVAL COST. A removal cost as defined under §
94.13.
      UNDERLYING PARCEL.  A parcel of private property upon which a removal
activity was performed.
      YEAR. A 365-day period.
   (J)   This section applies only to liens filed after August 14, 2009 (the
effective date of Public Act 96-462).
   (K)   This section shall not apply to a lien filed pursuant to §
94.16.
(Ord. 2718, passed 5-16-11)
§ 94.16 LIEN FOR COSTS OF REMOVAL, SECURING AND ENCLOSING ON ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   If the village elects to incur a removal cost pursuant to §§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14 with respect to an abandoned residential property, then that cost is a
lien upon the underlying parcel of that abandoned residential property. This
lien is superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens and as
otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   (1)   To perfect a lien under this section, the village must, within
one year after the cost is incurred for the activity, file notice of the lien
in the office of the Recorder in the county in which the abandoned residential
property is located or, if the abandoned residential property is registered
under the Torrens system, in the office of the Registrar of Titles of that
county, a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the abandoned residential property that
sufficiently identifies the parcel;
         (b)   The amount of the cost of the activity;
         (c)   The date or dates when the cost for the activity was incurred by
the municipality; and
         (d)   A statement that the lien has been filed pursuant to §§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14, as applicable.
      (2)   If, for any abandoned residential property, the village engaged in
any activity on more than one occasion during the course of one year, then the
village may combine any or all of the costs of each of those activities into a
single notice of lien.
   (C)   To enforce a lien pursuant to this section, the village must maintain
contemporaneous records that include, at a minimum:
      (1)   A dated statement of finding by the village that the property for
which the work is to be performed has become abandoned residential property,
which shall include:
         (a)   The date when the property was first known or observed to be
unoccupied by any lawful occupant or occupants;
         (b)   A description of the actions taken by the village to contact the
legal owner or owners of the property identified on the recorded mortgage, or,
if known, any agent of the owner or owners, including the dates such actions
were taken; and
         (c)   A statement that no contacts were made with the legal owner or
owners or their agents as a result of such actions;
      (2)   A dated certification by an authorized official of the village of
the necessity and specific nature of the work to be performed;
      (3)   A copy of the agreement with the person or entity performing the
work that includes the legal name of the person or entity, the rate or rates to
be charged for performing the work, and an estimate of the total cost of the
work to be performed;
      (4)   Detailed invoices and payment vouchers for all payments made by the
village for such work; and
      (5)   A statement as to whether the work was engaged through a
competitive bidding process, and if so, a copy of all proposals submitted by
the bidders for such work.
   (D)   A lien under this section shall be enforceable exclusively at the
hearing for confirmation of sale of the abandoned residential property that is
held pursuant to ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1508(b) and shall be limited to a
claim of interest in the proceeds of the sale and subject to the requirements
of this section. Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on the property, or any
beneficiary or trustee who holds a deed of trust on the property, may contest
the lien or the amount of the lien at any time during the foreclosure
proceeding upon motion and notice in accordance with court rules applicable to
motions generally. Grounds for forfeiture of the lien or the superior status of
the lien granted by division (A) above shall include, but not be limited to, a
finding by the court that:
      (1)   The village has not complied with divisions (B) and (C) above;
      (2)   The scope of the work was not reasonable under the circumstances;
      (3)   The work exceeded the authorization for the work to be performed
under §§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14, as applicable; or
      (4)   The cost of the services rendered or materials provided was not
commercially reasonable. Forfeiture of the superior status of the lien
otherwise granted by this section shall, not constitute a forfeiture of the
lien as a subordinate lien.
   (E)   Upon payment of the amount of a lien filed under this section by the
mortgagee, servicer, owner, or any other person, the village shall release the
lien, and the release may be filed of record by the person making such payment
at the person's sole expense as in the case of filing notice of lien.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the village may
not file a lien pursuant to this section for activities performed pursuant to
§§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14, if:
      (1)   The mortgagee or servicer of the abandoned residential property has
provided notice to the village that the mortgagee or servicer has performed or
will perform the remedial actions specified in the notice that the village
otherwise might perform pursuant to §§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14 provided that the remedial actions specified in the notice have been
performed or are performed or initiated in good faith within 30 days of such
notice; or
      (2)   The village has provided notice to the mortgagee or servicer of a
problem with the property requiring the remedial actions specified in the
notice that the village otherwise would perform pursuant to §§
94.10,
94.11,
94.12,
94.13, or
94.14, and the mortgagee or servicer has performed or performs or initiates in
good faith the remedial actions specified in the notice within 30 days of such
notice.
   (G)   This section shall apply only to activities performed, costs incurred,
and liens filed after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 96th
General Assembly.
   (H)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any type of permanent residential
dwelling unit, including detached single family structures, and townhouses,
condominium units and multifamily rental apartments covering the entire
property, and manufactured homes treated under Illinois law as real estate and
not as personal property, that has been unoccupied by any lawful occupant or
occupants for at least 90 days, and for which after such 90-day period, the
village has made good faith efforts to contact the legal owner or owners of the
property identified on the recorded mortgage, or, if known, any agent of the
owner or owners, and no contact has been made. A property for which the village
has been given notice of the order of confirmation of sale pursuant to ILCS Ch.
735, Act 5, § 15-1508(b-10) shall not be deemed to be an abandoned residential
property for the purposes of this section.
      MERS PROGRAM. The nationwide Mortgage Electronic Registration System
approved by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae that has been created by
the mortgage banking industry with the mission of registering every mortgage
loan in the United States to lawfully make information concerning each
residential mortgage loan and the property securing it available by Internet
access to mortgage originators, servicers, warehouse lenders, wholesale
lenders, retail lenders, document custodians, settlement agents, title
companies, insurers, investors, county recorders, units of local government,
and consumers.
   (I)   Any entity or person who performs a removal, securing, or enclosing
activity pursuant to the authority of a village under this section may, in its,
his, or her own name, file a lien pursuant to division (B) above and appear in
a foreclosure action on that lien pursuant to division (D) of this section in
the place of the village, provided that the village shall remain subject to
division (C) above, and. such party shall be subject to all of the provisions
in this section as if such party were the village.
   (J)   All amounts received by the village for costs incurred pursuant to
this section for which the village has been reimbursed under Section 7.31 of
the Illinois Housing Development Act shall be remitted to the State Treasurer
for deposit into the Abandoned Residential Property Municipality Relief Fund.
(Ord. 2718, passed 5-16-11)
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.25 BURNING OF LEAVES.
   (A)   The burning of leaves and grass clippings shall be prohibited in the
village, except as otherwise provided from time to time by village resolution
restricting the burning of the aforementioned items to specified weekends
during spring and fall.
   (B)   The Fire Protection District, the Police Department and the Building
Department shall have the right to go upon any private property to enforce the
provisions of this section and to extinguish any leaves that are burning in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 1536, passed 10-2-95; Am. Ord. 1815, passed 7-17-00)
Cross-reference:
   Open burning on public streets and ways, see §
96.01
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies to the village at law or equity, any
person or entity who violates or fails to comply with §§
94.01, 94.11 and 94.12 shall be fined not less than $50 or not more than $750
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided above, if any person notified
fails or refuses to comply with the notice, the village may cause weeds to be
removed or cut down, remove and eliminate any debris, refuse, garbage, rubbish,
trash or deposits of disposed articles or material in any manner it designates
and shall charge the costs of such removal to the person owning, leasing,
occupying or controlling the real estate. The cost for such cutting or removal
shall be calculated on the basis of $10 per 1,000 square feet of real estate or
fraction thereof or actual costs of services whichever is greater, for the
first offense, and $20 per 1,000 square feet of real estate or actual costs of
services whichever is greater, for all subsequent offenses. The cost and
expense incurred by the village, or by the person or firm performing the
service by authority of the village, in the removal or cutting following the
refusal or failure of the responsible party to remove or cut down such weeds,
remove and eliminate any debris, refuse, garbage, rubbish or deposits of
disposed articles or material, and including reasonable attorney's fees, shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate affected, and a lien shall be enforced
as provided by statute.
(Ord. 1581, passed 6-17-96)
   (C)   In addition to all other remedies to the village at law or equity, any
person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
94.25 shall be fined not less than $50 or not more than $750 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues. (Ord. 1536, passed 10-2-95)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 95: PARADES AND PUBLIC GATHERINGS
Section
Parades
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Compliance
   
95.03   Permit required
   
95.04   Application for permit
   
95.05   Conditions for issuance of permit
   
95.06   Denial of permit; appeal
   
95.07   Alternating permit
   
95.08   Information required within permit
   
95.09   Public conduct during parades
Public Gatherings
   
95.20   Definition
   
95.21   Permit required
   
95.22   Application for permit
   
95.23   Proof of insurance required
   
95.24   Bond required
   
95.25   Structure to be free from fire hazards
   
95.26   Unobstructed exits required on premises
   
95.27   Construction of seats; number limitation
   
95.28   Sanitary facilities required; ambulance
   
95.29   Staff for event
   
95.30   Permitted hours
   
95.31   Certain sounds restricted
 
   
95.99   Penalty
PARADES
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, park, or
other public place in the village.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
§ 95.02 COMPLIANCE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start any parade,
unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the Chief of Police with
the following exceptions.
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Any educational function under the direction and supervision of the
proper school authorities;
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its authority.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police on forms provided by such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Chief of Police not less than 48 hours nor more than 60 days before the
date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Contents.  The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information.
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the Parade Chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals, and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file
with the Chief of Police a communication in writing from the person proposing
to hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his
behalf; and
      (12)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   (C)   Late applications.  The Chief of Police, where good cause is shown
therefor, shall have the authority to consider any application hereunder which
is filed less than 48 hours before the date such parade is proposed to be
conducted.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
§ 95.05 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder
when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information
as may otherwise be obtained, he finds the following.
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
      (3)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
fire-fighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (4)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods, or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
   (B)   Upon issuance of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall send a
copy thereof or otherwise notify the Village President.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
§ 95.06 DENIAL OF PERMIT; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a parade permit
within five hours after the filing thereof. If the Chief of Police disapproves
the application, he shall mail to the applicant within three days after the
date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his action, stating the
reasons for his denial of the permit.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a
parade permit to the Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 14
days after notice. The Board of Trustees shall act upon the appeal within 21
days after its receipt.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
§ 95.07 ALTERNATING PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within 30 days after notice of the action o¥
the Chief of Police, file a written notice of acceptance with the Chief of
Police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of a parade permit under, this subchapter.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
§ 95.08 INFORMATION REQUIRED WITHIN PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information.
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade;
   (C)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (D)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary to
the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
§ 95.09 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference.  No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, or
impede, or interfere with any parade or parade assembly, or with any person,
vehicle, or animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades.  No driver of a vehicle, street car, or
trackless trolley shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a
parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route.  The Chief of Police shall have the
authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of
vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade. The Chief of Police shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70) Penalty, see §
95.99
PUBLIC GATHERINGS
§ 95.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MASS GATHERING. Any public gathering of people numbering 500 or more, or 25%
or more of the population of the village according to the last preceding
federal census, whichever is less.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76)
§ 95.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no mass gathering may be
set up, conducted, held, arranged, or promoted unless a written permit has been
issued by the Board of Trustees of the village at least 14 days in advance of
the proposed date of the gathering. This subchapter does not apply to mass
gatherings which are conducted, sponsored, promoted, or managed by a
governmental unit or agency, legally held on publicly owned land or property,
or by any eleemosynary associations so long as the same is not conducted for
pecuniary profit.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   To obtain a permit to set up, hold, conduct, manage, arrange, or promote any
mass gatherings, the promoters must file written application under oath on a
form provided by the village which shall include the names and addresses of the
promoters, the location on which the mass gathering is to be conducted, the
nature or purpose of the mass gathering, the maximum number of persons which
the promoter plans to permit to assemble at any time, the maximum number of
tickets to be sold or given, and a statement that the activities of the mass
gatherings will not violate any village or county zoning ordinances nor any
village, county, or state health regulations. During the time and place where
such mass gathering is to be held, the promoters will provide suitable and
adequate sanitary accommodations, medical facilities, ambulance service, water
supplies, safe and wholesome food, land space, access and departure routes,
parking, security and protection from bodily harm and property damage to those
expected to attend such mass gathering. The expenses for use of a reasonable
number of policemen of the village for control of traffic and persons attending
the mass gathering, or for the enforcement of the laws in connection herewith
shall be paid by the promoters prior to the issuance of a permit and shall file
an application with the Village Clerk together with an application fee of $100
at least 60 days prior to the proposed mass gathering. At their next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Trustees of the village after the date of the filing
of said application, the Trustees will refer said application to the Chief of
Police and the Village Building Inspector for review to determine conformity
with this subchapter and written recommendations, including expenses for
policemen, which must be submitted to the Board of Trustees within 30 days
after such referral.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76)
§ 95.23 PROOF OF INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the promoter shall furnish evidence of
health insurance for payment of any claims for personal injury including death,
property damage, or suits arising out of or in connection with such mass
gathering. The minimum limits of such policy is to be $500,000 and $1,000,000
and must name the village, its agents and representatives as co-insured.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 BOND REQUIRED.
   Prior to the issuance of the permit, the person holding, managing,
conducting, or organizing such gathering shall provide and place on file with
the Village Clerk a corporate surety bond in the sum of $100,000, the surety to
be subject to approval of the village, which will indemnify, hold harmless, and
defend the village from any damages, costs, expenses, attorney's fees caused or
resulting from a violation of any ordinance of the village by that person
seeking to hold or conduct said gathering.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 STRUCTURE TO BE FREE FROM FIRE HAZARDS.
   No such gathering shall be held or promoted in any enclosed or partially
enclosed building, structure, or tent unless such premises have been examined
and approved by the Village Building Inspector and found to be free from fire
hazards and found to be suitable for such gatherings. No structure enclosed by
a roof shall be used unless same is constructed by nonflammable material,
provided, however, that tents or structures covered by canvass or similar
material may be used if the canvass or other material has been properly treated
to render it fire retardant.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 UNOBSTRUCTED EXITS REQUIRED ON PREMISES.
   Adequate unobstructed exits shall be provided on all premises used for such
gatherings to allow safe and rapid egress of all people attending, and shall be
at least three lineal feet of doorway or exit space for each 100 persons
accommodated with a minimum of two separate exits located at least 30 feet from
each other. All doors, gates, or points of egress shall open outward. No such
exit shall be constructed or locked so that egress from the inside is prevented
and no obstructions will be within 30 feet of each exit way.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 CONSTRUCTION OF SEATS; NUMBER LIMITATION.
   (A)   All stands, seats, or rows of seating used for such gatherings shall
be so constructed as to be safe for the use designed and intended, and shall be
sufficiently strong to carry the same weight and stress as required in the
construction of seating and flooring for public stadium or auditorium seats.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to admit to any such premises a number of persons
to exceed the actual number of seats maintained for their accommodations at a
gathering.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.28 SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED; AMBULANCE.
   (A)   No such gathering shall be permitted on any premises or site not
equipped with adequate separate sanitary facilities for males and females. Such
facilities may be of the mechanical type rather than connected with the public
water and sewer system, provided that each separate facility is serviced at
least once each day. For purposes of this subchapter, two separate sanitary
units for each 100 persons in attendance is considered adequate.
   (B)   If the public gathering is over 1,000 individuals, a staffed ambulance
is also required to be at or adjacent to the site of the intended gathering.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.29 STAFF FOR EVENT.
   The promoter shall, in addition hereto, arrange for and provide for all
security officers, ticket takers, and parking attendants commensurate with the
size of the indicated activities.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.30 PERMITTED HOURS.
   Any such mass gathering shall be terminated no later than midnight. It shall
be unlawful for any person to remain on the premises between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m., provided that employees whose duties necessitate it may
remain on the premises for the performance of such duties.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 CERTAIN SOUNDS RESTRICTED.
   No sounds shall be emitted from any place of mass gathering in such manner
that said sound shall be audible beyond the property lines of the premises
whereon the place of mass gathering is located. At no time shall noise or sound
emanate which, either by mechanical or electrical devices or live performance,
in any manner disturbs, annoys, injures, endangers, or tends to disturb, annoy,
injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace, tranquility, or safety
of persons or the public in general.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§§
95.01 through
95.09 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not less than $5 nor exceeding $750; or shall be
imprisoned for a period not exceeding 30 days; or be both fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-1-70)
   (B)   A violation of any terms or provisions of §§
95.20 through
95.31 may subject the person to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $750
for every violation of these sections. Each day that a violation of these
sections shall be permitted shall constitute a separate offense. Separate
action may be commenced against each person organizing, managing, conducting,
controlling, and promoting said gathering including action against said
promoter and sureties to forfeit bond for all damages and expenses incurred by
the village for violation.
(Ord. 916, passed 6-21-76)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Open burning prohibited on public streets and ways
   
96.02   Encroachments upon U.S. Route 45 right-of-way prohibited
   
96.03   Encroachments upon U.S. Route 30 right-of-way prohibited
Skateboards on Public Rights-of-Way
   
96.15   Skateboards on public rights of way
   
96.16   Parental responsibility
   
96.17   Resistance to police officer
Snow and Ice on Public Rights-of-Way
   
96.20   Placing snow and/or ice onto public ways is prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC STREETS AND WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or incinerate any wood, brush, refuse, garbage,
paper, leaves or any other combustible material on any public street, roadway,
parking area, alley, parkway, sidewalk or street right-of-way in the village.
(Ord. 1272, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Burning of leaves, see §
94.25
§ 96.02 ENCROACHMENTS UPON U.S. ROUTE 45 RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall install, place, maintain
or construct any structure that encroaches upon the State of Illinois right-of-
way on the U.S. Route 45 roadway within the village limits.
(Ord. 1326, passed 10-15-90; Am. Ord. 1662, passed 10-20-97; Am. Ord. 2525,
passed 10-20-08)
§ 96.03 ENCROACHMENTS UPON U.S. ROUTE 30 RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall install, place, maintain
or construct any structure that encroaches upon the State of Illinois right-of-
way on the U.S. Rouge 30 roadway from Wolf Road to IL Route 43 within the
limits of the Village of Frankfort.
(Ord. 2500, passed 8-18-08; Am. Ord. 2705, passed 3-21-11)
SKATEBOARDS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 96.15 SKATEBOARDS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY.
   (A)   Definition. The term SKATEBOARD, as used herein, shall designate a
platform supported by wheels intended to carry and support a human foot and to
be propelled by human foot power. It includes vehicles containing a handle bar
and sometimes referred to as scooters.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, ride upon, or
propel a skateboard on any sidewalk located adjacent to any public street or
roadway, or upon any portion of any public street or roadway in the following
designated area:
      (1)   Nebraska Street from White Street to Hickory Street.
      (2)   Kansas Street from White Street to Hickory Street.
      (3)   Elwood Street from White Street to Oak Street.
      (4)   White Street from Nebraska Street to Elwood Street.
      (5)   Ash Street from Nebraska Street to Kansas Street.
      (6)   Oak Street from Nebraska Street to Elwood Street.
      (7)   Hickory Street from Nebraska Street to Kansas Street.
      (8)   Public Parking Area located at the corner of Oak Street and Kansas
Street.
      (9)   Public Parking Area located at the corner of Hickory and Nebraska.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, ride upon, or
propel a skateboard on or over any jumping device or ramp, or similar structure
on any public sidewalk, street or roadway, or public right of way not so
designated for such use by the Village Board of Trustees, within the village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, ride upon or
propel a skateboard on or over any jumping device or ramp, or similar structure
on any portion of Breidert Green and the adjacent parking lot, or on the
Prairie Park parking lot, or on any other private property as posted by a
proprietor.
(Ord. 1264, passed 6-19-89; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any provisions of §
96.15. Any parent or guardian knowingly authorizing or permitting a violation
shall upon conviction thereof be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions provided for in §
96.99.
(Ord. 1264, passed 6-19-89) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 RESISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any police officer
in enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1264, passed 6-19-89) Penalty, see §
96.99
SNOW AND ICE ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 96.20 PLACING SNOW AND/OR ICE ONTO PUBLIC WAYS IS PROHIBITED.
   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC WAY is defined as any passageway open
as of right to the public and designed for travel by vehicle, on foot, or
otherwise including but not limited to sidewalks, paths, streets, alleys, and
parking lots, including spaces marked for handicap parking.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plow, blow, shovel or otherwise
place or deposit snow and/or ice onto any public way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct, harass, prevent, or otherwise
interfere with any employee of the village engaged in snow removal operations
or to obstruct, cause damage to, or otherwise interfere with any village
vehicle used in snow removal operations.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works, or designated representative, is
authorized, in addition to other persons having enforcement powers pursuant to
local ordinance, to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Any person or business found to be in violation of any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each
offense.
(Ord. 3194, passed 2-19-19)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
96.01 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 1272, passed 9-5-89)
   (B)   The penalty for the violation of §§
96.15 through
96.17 shall be not less than $15 nor more than $750 for each such offense.
(Ord. 1264, passed 6-19-89)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 97: RESERVED
CHAPTER 98: SNOWMOBILES
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Definitions
Registration
   
98.20   Operation of unregistered and unnumbered snowmobiles is prohibited
   
98.21   Registration with the village
   
98.22   Procedure for registration
   
98.23   License fee
   
98.24   Identification number display
   
98.25   Exceptions from numbering display requirement
Snowmobile Equipment
   
98.35   Equipment required
Control Provisions
   
98.45   Operation
   
98.46   Operation on highways
   
98.47   Hours of operation
   
98.48   Snowmobile trails
   
98.49   Obedience to traffic regulations
   
98.50   Youthful operators
   
98.51   Prohibited acts
Enforcement
   
98.60   Inspections authorized
   
98.61   Resistance to police officer
 
   
98.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COWLING. The forward portions of a snowmobile surrounding the motor and
clutch assembly.
   DANGEROUS DRUG refers to any drug defined as a depressant or stimulant
substance in the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act," III. Rev. Stat. Ch. 56½,
par. 1100-1602 (1985).
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every federal and
state numbered public way maintained when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE shall include spirits, wine, beer, ale and every other
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer capable of being
consumed as a beverage by human beings.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, use or control the operation of a snowmobile in
any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is underway.
   OPERATOR refers to every person who operates or is in actual physical
control of a snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, having title to a snowmobile. The
term includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a snowmobile
subject to an interest in another person, reserved or created by agreement and
securing payment or performance of an obligation, but the term includes a
lessee under a lease not intended as security.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation or association.
   REGISTER. The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile.
   ROADWAY refers to that portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel over snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
   VILLAGE refers to the Village of Frankfort, Will County, Illinois.
   STREET. The entire width of a public right-of-way used or planned for use
for vehicular traffic and maintained by the local jurisdiction of the county,
township or municipality.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
REGISTRATION
§ 98.20 OPERATION OF UNREGISTERED AND UNNUMBERED SNOWMOBILES IS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall operate any snowmobile
within the village unless such snowmobile has been registered and numbered in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois "Snowmobile Registration and
Safety Act", Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 95½, sec. 601-1 et seq. (1985), and the
provisions hereinafter set forth and unless the Certificate of Number awarded
to such snowmobile is in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.21 REGISTRATION WITH THE VILLAGE.
   Any owner and/or operator of a snowmobile within the village shall register
the snowmobile each year that the snowmobile is operated in the village
beginning on a date not more than 30 days from the date of adoption of this
ordinance and shall do so an or before the 30th day of June of each and every
year thereafter, or within ten days of the date of acquisition of a snowmobile,
and on payment of the registration of license fee hereinafter provided to the
village, the Village Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued a registration
certificate or license authorizing the operation of such license. All
registration certificates or licenses shall expire on the 1st day of July of
each year.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.22 PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION.
   Said residents and/or owners shall register the snowmobile with the village
on a form provided by the Village Clerk which shall contain (1) the name of the
registrant, (2) the registrant's address, (3) the registrant's social security
number, (4) the registrant's telephone number, (5) a description of the
snowmobile being registered, (6) the number awarded to the snowmobile by the
Department of Conservation and contained on the Certificate of Number issued by
said Department, (7) the primary operators of said snowmobile, and (8) proof of
insurance for liability and property damage.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.23 LICENSE FEE.
   The registration or license fee to be paid annually to the village shall be
$25 per snowmobile.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
§ 98.24 IDENTIFICATION NUMBER DISPLAY.
   The owner shall paint on or securely attach to both sides of the cowling of
the snowmobile the identification number, as set forth on the Certificate of
Number, which shall be of block characters at least three inches in height. The
characters shall read from left to right, be of contrasting color to their
background, and be maintained in a legible condition. The Certificate of Number
shall be available at all times or inspection on the snowmobile for which it
was issued, whenever the snowmobile is in operation. In addition, the operator
must wear a vest with a matching number to the I.D. number issued for the
snowmobile.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.25 EXCEPTIONS FROM NUMBERING DISPLAY REQUIREMENT.
   A snowmobile shall not be required to be numbered as provided in §
98.24 if it is:
   (A)   Owned and used by the United States, another state, or a political
subdivision thereof; but such snowmobiles shall display the name of the owner
on the cowling thereof.
   (B)   Used only on international or national competition circuits in events
for which written permission has been obtained by the sponsoring or sanctioning
body from the governmental unit having jurisdiction over the location of any
event held in this state.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT
§ 98.35 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   All snowmobiles operating within the municipality shall be equipped with:
   (A)   At least one white headlamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of at least
500 feet ahead during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (D)   At least one red taillamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (C)   A brake system in good mechanical condition.
   (D)   Reflective material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on
each side of the cowling. Identifying numbers may be included in computing the
required 16 square inch area.
   (E)   Adequate sound suppression equipment. No snowmobile shall be operated
within the village, unless it is equipped with sound suppression devices that
limit total machine noise in accordance with noise pollution standards
established pursuant to The Environmental Protection Act. Operation during
repair of a snowmobile shall be excepted from this subsection.
   (F)   All snowmobiles, while being operated within the village, shall have
attached to the rear thereof, at a convenient point, a pole made of wood,
metal, fiberglass, plastic, or similar material of suitable nature eight feet
in length which pole shall have attached to the free end thereof a flag or
pennant containing at least one square foot of bright or reflective material
and visible at a distance of at least 100 feet.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
CONTROL PROVISIONS
§ 98.45 OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in
the following ways:
   (1)   At a rate of speed no greater than the minimum speed required to
maintain forward movement of the snowmobile, which is considered to be less
than 10 m.p.h. operating a snowmobile within the village.
   (2)   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions; the fact that the speed of
the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit allowed does
not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or object within legal requirements
and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (3)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner.
   (4)   While under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic or
dangerous drugs.
   (5)   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted
taillamp on the snowmobile.
   (6)   On the tracks or right-of-way of an operating railroad.
   (7)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock, or creates a substantial risk thereto.
   (8)   On private property, within the village corporate limits or an public
or private properties adjacent to the corporate boundaries of the village.
   (9)   Within 40 feet of a residential dwelling between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m. at a speed no greater than the minimum speed required to maintain forward
movement of the snowmobile, which is considered to be less than 10 m.p.h.
   (10)   On the frozen waters within the village in a manner inconsistent with
the Rules and Regulations of the Illinois Department of Conservation.
   (11)   To operate a snowmobile within the village when, immediately during
said period of time, the accumulation of snow existing on the ground during
that time is less than the depth of two inches as measured by the village and
reported on cable television, Channel 10.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.46 OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile on a
highway in the village except as follows:
   (A)   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways and fully or
limited access-controlled highways, snowmobiles may make a direct crossing
provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing; and
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing a
roadway; and
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
   (B)   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways, and fully or
limited access-controlled highways snowmobiles may be operated not less than 20
feet from the roadway and in the same direction as traffic except as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways, and fully or
limited access-controlled highways snowmobiles may be operated on roadways when
it is necessary to cross a bridge or culvert or when it is impracticable to
gain immediate access to an area adjacent to a highway where a snowmobile is to
be operated.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
§ 98.47 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles may be operated within the village hereinabove provided only
upon the snowmobile trails hereinafter designated and only between the hours of
5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday, holidays and school closings. No snowmobile may be operated
within the village between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
This section shall not prohibit the operation of snowmobiles between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. in cases of emergency when the operator has
specific authorization from the village, the Police Department, or the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
§ 98.48 SNOWMOBILE TRAILS.
   (A)   The following street right of ways or parts thereof in the village are
designated as snowmobile trails within the village and are the only authorized
trails upon which snowmobiles may be operated within five feet of either side
of the roadway edge and in the same direction as traffic:
      (1)   Colorado, Indiana and Cedar between Route 43 and Route 30.
      (2)   Elsner Road between Route 30 and Route 45.
      (3)   92nd Ave Row and Larch St. between Route 30 and Sauk Trail.
      (4)   Route 30 and Route 45.
      (5)   Nebraska St. between Larch and Route 45.
      (6)   Center Road South of Nebraska St.
      (7)   Sauk Trail east of Center Road.
   (B)   Only those public right of ways or parts thereof, herein designated as
snowmobiles trails shall be used for the operation of snowmobiles in the
village, and no snowmobile shall be operated on any other street within the
village.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
§ 98.49 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum speed limit for operation of a snowmobile within the
village is at a speed no greater than the minimum required to maintain forward
movement of the snowmobile, considered to be less than 10 m.p.h.
   (B)   Operators of snowmobiles shall obey and abide by all traffic
regulations prescribed for the operation of motor vehicles and shall be subject
to the same penalties for violation thereof, except as otherwise provided
herein.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98)
§ 98.50 YOUTHFUL OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person under ten years of age may operate a snowmobile.
   (B)   Persons at least ten years of age and less than 12 years of age may
operate a snowmobile within the village only if they are either accompanied on
the snowmobile by a parent or guardian, or a person at least 18 years of age
designated by the parent or guardian.
   (C)   Persons at least 12 and less than 16 years of age may operate a
snowmobile only if they are either accompanied on the snowmobile by a parent or
guardian or a person at least 16 years of age designated by a parent or
guardian, or such operator is in possession of a certificate issued by the
Illinois Department of Conservation authorizing the holder to operate
snowmobiles.
   (D)   Any person who operates a snowmobile on a highway as provided in §
98.46 or on the snowmobile trails designated in §
98.48 shall possess a valid motor vehicle driver's license or a safety
certification issued by the Illinois Department of Conservation.
   (E)   Violations of this section done with the knowledge of a parent or
guardian shall be deemed a violation by the parent or guardian and punishable
under §
98.99.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.51 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride any
snowmobile with any firearm in his possession.
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile emitting pollutants in
accordance with standards established pursuant to the Environmental Protection
Act.
   (C)   No person shall deposit from a snowmobile on the snow, ice, or ground
surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble material, or other offensive matter.
   (D)   No person shall use a snowmobile to take, pursue, chase, harass or
disturb wildlife and other animals, including dogs and cats.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 98.60 INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Duly authorized police officers may stop and inspect any snowmobile at
any time for the purpose of determining compliance with this chapter. If the
inspecting officer or agent discovers any violation of the provisions of this
chapter, the officer shall issue a summons to the operator of such snowmobile
requiring that the operator appear before the proper court.
   (B)   Every snowmobile operated within the village, if under way and upon
being hailed by a designated law enforcement officer, must stop immediately.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.61 RESISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any police in
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 and shall be fined
for a second conviction not less than $300 nor more than $750. A third arrest
will result in confiscation of the snowmobile with a third conviction
prohibiting the operator from licensing the vehicle for a period not to exceed
two years.
(Ord. 1249, passed 12-5-98; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 99: FIREWORKS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Prohibited conduct
   
99.03   Pyrotechnic displays
   
99.04   Permit application and procedures
   
99.05   Notice to the village
   
99.06   Record of permits issued
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions contained in the Fireworks
Use Act (ILCS Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 1 et seq.) and the Pyrotechnic and Consumer
Display Permitting Rules (41 Ill. Adm. Code 235.10 et seq.) shall apply unless
the context otherwise requires.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06)
§ 99.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of the
Fireworks Use Act or any rule or regulation promulgated by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to the Fireworks Use Act. Except as hereinafter provided, it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation to
knowingly possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or use or
explode any display fireworks, flame effects or consumer fireworks.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the
manufacture, storage or use of signals or fuses necessary for the safe
operation of railroads, trucks, aircraft or other instrumentalities of
transportation.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Pyrotechnic displays shall only be conducted pursuant to a permit
obtained from the village.
   (B)   All pyrotechnic displays require the services of a licensed lead
pyrotechnic operator and a licensed pyrotechnic distributor. A licensed lead
pyrotechnic operator shall be present during any pyrotechnic display and shall
personally supervise all assistants, including all phases of the pyrotechnic
display. The lead pyrotechnic operator must be in possession of and able to
produce his or her license upon request at all times during the delivery, set-
up and performance of the display.
   (C)   All 1.3G fireworks displays and storage shall be conducted in
accordance with National Fire Protection Association 1123 (2000), Code for
Fireworks Display. Storage of display fireworks (1.3G and above) shall comply
with the storage requirements sent forth by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives at 27 C.F.R. 555.1 et seq., or by the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to Article 3 of the Illinois Explosive
Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 210. Should there be a conflict between the requirements
established by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and by
the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, those requirements that are more
specific, more stringent or impose requirements for which no like requirements
are contained in the other agency's requirements shall control.
   (D)   No pyrotechnic displays shall be conducted within 600 feet of any
hospital, asylum or infirmary.
   (E)   Pyrotechnic displays shall not be conducted indoors.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 PERMIT APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each applicant for a pyrotechnic display permit shall submit a
completed application form and such information as required by the Village
Clerk at least 15 days in advance of the date of the pyrotechnic display. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The date, location and beginning and ending times of the proposed
display.
      (3)   The name and address of the lead pyrotechnic operator, along with
proof that said operator possesses a valid license from the State of Illinois.
      (4)   The names and addresses of all assistants to the lead pyrotechnic
operator, along with proof that said persons are at least 18 years of age.
      (5)   The name and address of the pyrotechnic distributor, along with
proof that said distributor possesses a valid license from the State of
Illinois.
      (6)   Proof of liability insurance in a sum not less than $1,000,000.
Such insurance shall be carried with an insurer authorized to do business in
the State of Illinois and insure the applicant against liabilities, judgments,
costs, damages and expenses that may accrue against, be charged to or be
recovered from the applicant on the reason of damage to property or injury to
or death of any person arising from the pyrotechnic display or flame effect
display. Such insurance coverage shall be an occurrence based policy, and it
shall cover all periods of time when pyrotechnic materials, including flame
effect materials, are in the insured's actual or constructive possession,
including those times when the materials are being stored, transported,
handled, used, discharged and displayed.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless the Chief of the Frankfort Fire
Protection District, or his or her designee, has inspected the site and
determined that the display can be performed in full compliance with the rules
adopted by the State Fire Marshal and that the display shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. Permits must be signed by the
Chief of the Frankfort Fire Protection District, or his or her designee.
   (C)   After a permit has been granted, sales, possession, use and
distribution of display fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that
purpose only.
   (D)   No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06)
§ 99.05 NOTICE TO THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Permit holders shall notify the village within 24 hours after any
fire, injury to any person resulting from the display or damage to property in
excess of $500, in the aggregate, resulting from the display. The village shall
notify the State Fire Marshal by telephone or in writing within three days
after learning of incident.
   (B)   Licensed pyrotechnic distributors and licensed lead pyrotechnic
operators shall report the theft or loss of fireworks to the Police Department
in accordance with Section 230.180 of the Pyrotechnic Distributor and Operator
Licensing Rules (41 Adm. Code 230.180), the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06)
§ 99.06 RECORD OF PERMITS ISSUED.
   The village shall maintain a copy of each display permit issued for a
minimum of four years from the date of the display. Any reports of fire,
injury, property damage, theft or loss of fireworks that are submitted to the
village shall be maintained with the copy of the display permit.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, any rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder, the Fireworks Use Act or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a lawsuit seeking an
injunction and/or a fine of not less than $300 nor more than $1,000 per
violation. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. 2286, passed 6-5-06)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ELEVATORS
      
113.   INTOXICATING LIQUOR
      
114.   PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
      
115.   SOLICITORS, HAWKERS, AND PEDDLERS; CHARITABLE SOLICITATION
      
116.   SEXUAL CONDUCT IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
      
117.   LONG-TERM CARE FACILITIES
      
118.   CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
119.   TOBACCO
      
120.   PRE-OWNED MERCHANDISE
      
121.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
122.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
      
123.   VACATION RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   License program intent; operating business without a license
prohibited
   
110.02   Business license classifications
   
110.03   License fee structure and term
   
110.04   License application procedure
   
110.05   License application review and inspection
   
110.06   Penalties for noncompliance
   
110.07   Business license suspension; revocation
   
110.08   License not assignable
   
110.09   Change in business
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE PROGRAM INTENT; OPERATING BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to require that all businesses in the
village obtain a license to operate. The intent of the business license program
is to provide the village with complete identifying information concerning
businesses and their owners and the owners of the premises upon which the
businesses are located in order to protect the business in case of emergency;
and to protect the public and other businesses in case of complaints alleging
village code violations.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in any business activity
in the village without having obtained a business license, as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 BUSINESS LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   There are seven types of business license classifications:
   (A)   Class A. Shall apply to food and food-related establishments that
consist exclusively and/or partially of the following activities: restaurants,
fast-food or convenience foods, grocery stores, or other similar retail or
wholesale operations.
   (B)   Class B. Shall apply to all retail establishments, other than those
referred to above as “A” licenses, which regularly invite the public into their
establishments for the purpose of providing goods.
   (C)   Class C. Shall apply to all office establishments where no goods are
transferred within said office.
   (D)   Class D. Shall apply to all temporary businesses of any type.
   (E)   Class E. Shall apply to all establishments that have as their primary
business activity: Manufacturing and industrial activities, wholesale and
warehouse activities, fabrication, processing, assembly, disassembly, and
packaging.
   (F)   Class F. Shall apply to long-term care facilities, as provided for in
Chapter 117.
   (G)   Class G. Reserved.
   (H)   Class H. Shall apply to all home businesses.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90; Am. Ord. 2698, passed 2-22-11)
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEE STRUCTURE AND TERM.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be valid for operative businesses only. The
license year for the village shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall
terminate on April 30 of the following year, where no provision to the contrary
is made.
   (B)   Application fee for new business license to be set from time to time
by the Board of Trustees. The application fee of $100 shall be established
concurrently with passage of Ordinance 2698 on February 22, 2011.
   (C)   No license fee shall be due during the first term of an annual
license, unless the first term is permitted for more than 12 months.
(NOTE:  For clarity purposes, the rates established by Ordinance 1502 passed
March 20, 1995 for Class A through E licenses, are hereby re-stated and remain
in effect and unchanged.)
   (D)   Class A. License fee to be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees and duration of one year.
   (E)   Class B. License fee to be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees and duration of one year.
   (F)   Class C. License fee to be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees and duration of one year.
   (G)   Class D. License fee to be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees. No more than three such licenses shall be issued to any business at
any location, per calendar year. Upon written request the Village Board may
waive the license fee for a business involved in a community function such as
the Fall Festival, Business Expo, and the like.
   (H)   Class E. License fee to be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees and duration of one year.
   (I)   Class F. License fee of $500 and duration of one year.
   (J)   Class H. License fee of $15 or no fee with a valid state license and
duration of one year.
   (K)   The required fee for each license shall be collected in full at the
time the application for a license, or the renewal thereof, is filed with the
village.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90; Am. Ord. 1502, passed 3-20-95; Am. Ord. 2698, passed
2-22-11)
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses shall be made to the village in writing
on the form provided for that purpose. The form is attached and may, from time
to time, be amended by the village. Each application shall contain:
      (1)   Business name;
      (2)   A description of the type of business;
      (3)   The location or proposed location of the business;
      (4)   Business telephone number;
      (5)   Business owner; and
      (6)   Evidence that the required State Retailer’s Occupation Tax, Service
Occupation Tax, or Use Tax as appropriate, has been paid for the preceding
year.
   (B)   In addition, each application shall contain:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the
application shall contain the applicant’s name, residence address, and
residential telephone number.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership or other non-corporate business
entity, the application shall contain the name and residential address, and
residential telephone number of each partner, principal, or member thereof.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain
the name, residential address, and residential telephone number of each
principal officer and the registered agent thereof.
      (4)   If the applicant is an unincorporated association, the application
shall contain the name, residential address, and residential telephone number
of the spokesman.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall make the determination what type of
license is required for each respective applicant. This determination shall be
made after review of the information provided in each application. The
determination of the Code Enforcement Officer may be appealed to the Community
Development Director, and then to the Village Administrator. If no resolution
is reached, the determination may be appealed to the Village President whose
decision shall be final.
   (D)   All establishments desiring a business license shall file an
application with the village not less than 30 days prior to the time said
establishments desire to commence operation. Thereafter, prior to continued
operation of the establishment in subsequent years, a renewal application shall
be filed not less than 30 days prior to expiration of the license. In the event
such renewal application is not filed by this date, a late charge to be set by
the Board of Trustees shall be charged. Delinquency can result in suspension or
revocation of a business license.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to cause a
written notice to be mailed by regular or electronic mail to each licensee
advising the licensee when a license expires, advising that a renewal is
required, and shall specify the amount of the license fee and the penalty for
failure to procure a license in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   All Class A license holders shall have a monthly pest control program
performed by a certified state of Illinois pest control exterminator. Class A
business license holders shall show proof that they have a pest control
contract, for a period no less than 12 months, with a certified state of
Illinois pest control exterminator.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90; Am. Ord. 1502, passed 3-20-95; Am. Ord. 2698, passed
2-22-11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE APPLICATION REVIEW AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a new license, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall provide the applicant 15 days notice to schedule an inspection of
the business premises, unless the application does not comply with requirements
of the Zoning Ordinance. The Officer will make a determination whether the
business premises complies with the provisions of the village’s Building Code,
Property Maintenance Code, Zoning Ordinance, and other applicable ordinances
and regulations of the village. The Code Enforcement Officer must find the
business premises compliant with each code identified herein within a six-month
period prior to the renewal of an annual license. Unresolved violations
reported by the Will County Health Department, the Frankfort Fire Protection
District, or other authority of competent jurisdiction, shall be deemed
sufficient reason to preclude license renewal, provided, however, that
reasonable notice and time are provided to correct each item of violation.
   (B)   Following the inspection, the Code Enforcement Officer shall provide
the applicant a written report listing any code violations and establishing a
time-table for compliance and correction of each item of violation.
   (C)   No license shall be issued until any code violations that constitute a
clear and present danger to the public health, safety, and general welfare are
completely rectified. Licenses can be issued if minor code violations exist and
a timetable for their correction is in place.
   (D)   No business license shall be issued to any establishment whose owners
are indebted to the village.
   (E)   Each license issued by the village shall bear the corporate seal of
the village. Each license shall be dated, shall state to whom it is issued, for
what purpose, the location at which such business is to be conducted, and the
date when the license is to expire.
   (F)   When a license certificate is delivered to any licensee which has
designated a premises in which the licensed business is to occur, it shall be
the duty of such licensee to post the license certificate in a conspicuous
location upon the licensed premises within five days of receipt of same.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90; Am. Ord. 2698, passed 2-22-11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the timetable established for correction of code violations has
expired without the correction as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer
during a follow-up inspection, the respective business licensee shall be
subject to the penalty in §
110.99.
   (B)   In addition, if compliance is not attained as mentioned above, the
respective business license may be subject to suspension pending revocation as
detailed in §
110.07.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90)
§ 110.07 BUSINESS LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   When the condition of any business premises shall constitute a clear
and present danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to suspend the business license and
close the premises until the danger no longer exists.
   (B)   Within seven days after a license is suspended and a business ordered
closed, the Village President and Board of Trustees, upon recommendation of the
Village Administrator, shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining
whether the license should be revoked.
   (C)   The Village President and Board of Trustees shall conduct a hearing
for the purpose of determining whether or not the license should be revoked in
accordance with the following guidelines:
      (1)   Notice of the hearing for a revocation of a license or permit shall
be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice may be hand delivered or mailed
by certified mail return receipt requested, to the licensee to his last known
address at least five days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   An attorney designated by the corporate authorities may represent
the village during the hearing. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and
have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Village
President shall serve as the hearing officer and shall render the decision,
with the advice and counsel of the Village Board. The decision shall be final.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided, any license issued under this chapter may
be revoked by the Village President after notice and hearing, as provided for
below, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license.
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee of this code or other village
ordinances relating to the license.
      (3)   Failure of the licensee to pay any indebtedness, charge, fine, or
penalty owing to the village.
      (4)   Refusal to permit inspections or interference with the Code
Enforcement Officer while in the performance of his duties in making license
inspections.
   (E)   The revocation, if ordered, shall not be in lieu of any other
provision imposing a penalty for the violation of any provision of this code or
any other ordinances of the village.
   (F)   No new license shall be issued to business who has had a license
revoked.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 LICENSE NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   (A)   No license or permit may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used
as collateral, or otherwise encumbered. No person, firm, or corporation shall
use or display any license certificate which has been improperly acquired.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall alter, deface, forge, or
counterfeit any license issued by the village.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 CHANGE IN BUSINESS.
        Other than changing location, when any licensee, by increasing the size
of his place of business, or by making any change of any kind in his business
which places him in a class where the provisions of this chapter require him to
pay a higher license fee, he shall pay the higher license fee due to the change
or increase, based on the annual license fee prorated monthly to the nearest
full month for the balance of the license period, and shall be entitled to
receive a new license.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $750. Each day that a violation continues after due notice
has been served, in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1290, passed 1-2-90; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Amusement Devices
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Applications for licenses
   
111.04   License investigator; duties
   
111.05   Examination of background and experience
   
111.06   Granting and issuance of licenses
   
111.07   License fee
   
111.08   Rebate of fee
   
111.09   Term of license
   
111.10   License renewal
   
111.11   Transfer of license prohibited
   
111.12   Revocation or suspension of license
   
111.13   Compliance with building and zoning regulations
   
111.14   Proof of current inspection by County Health Department
   
111.15   License certificate or insignia; loss; alteration or removal
   
111.16   Sweepstakes machines prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   DOING, CONDUCTING, ENGAGING IN, MAINTAINING, OPERATING, CARRYING ON, OR
MANAGING A BUSINESS, OCCUPATION OR ACTIVITY. Any person who holds himself forth
as being engaged in the business, occupation or activity, or who solicits
patronage therefor, either actively or passively, or who performs or attempts
to perform any part of such business, occupation or activity in the village.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct, engage in, maintain, operate, carry on or manage a business,
occupation or activity, either by himself, or through an agent, employee or
partner, for which a license is required by any provision of this subchapter
without first having obtained a license for such activity.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   All applications for licenses required under this subchapter shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk on a form provided for that purpose,
accompanied by the applicable license fee. Each application should be made
prior to 30 days before the same is requested to be issued to allow a period
for a proper examination and investigation to allow proper determination of
whether the application should be granted.
   (B)   Every application for a license shall contain the name, residence
address, phone number and social security or employer’s identification number
of the applicant; state whether the applicant is an individual, partnership or
corporation, and if a partnership, the names and residence addresses of the
general partners, and if a corporation, the names and residence addresses of
its principal officers and if closely held, its principal stockholders; the
type or kind of license desired; the location or proposed location of the
business; the occupation or activity for which the license is sought; the state
sales tax number of the applicant; the fee to be paid; and such other
information as may be reasonably required.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all applications for
licenses which, under the provisions of this subchapter, are required to be
made to her.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.04 LICENSE INVESTIGATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the village shall be designated and appointed
license investigatory and shall report all investigations to the Village Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the License Investigator to examine or cause
to be examined all persons and places of business subject to license hereunder
for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not such licenses should be issued.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.05 EXAMINATION OF BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE.
   The Chief of Police shall conduct a thorough examination into the background
and experience of all persons seeking licenses under the provisions of this
chapter. If such examination results in findings of fact which the Chief of
Police believes may disqualify the applicant as a licensee, he shall report his
findings to the Village President. If the Village President shall find that the
license applicant should not be issued a license, he shall notify the applicant
of this fact. The Village President may instruct the Village Clerk not to issue
a license for any one of the following reasons:
   (A)   That the applicant lacks good character and reputation in the
community, which character and reputation may be determined by previous arrest
record, association with persons known to lack good moral character, acts of
moral turpitude, or other conduct contrary to good morals.
   (B)   That the applicant has previously been charged and convicted with a
violation of other ordinances of the village or the statutes of the state,
except for traffic violations.
   (C)   That the applicant has outstanding judgments against him, or is
otherwise determined to be not financially able to carry out the activities for
which a license is sought.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.06 GRANTING AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   In all cases where licenses are to be obtained and ordinance compliance is
met, such license shall originally be granted by the Village Board of Trustees
and shall bear the seal of the village, the name and business address of the
licensee, the nature or kind of business, occupation or activity licensed, the
amount of fee paid, the license term and such other material information as is
required. All licenses shall be subject to the provisions of that ordinance
which may be in force at the time of the issuance thereof or which may
subsequently be passed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.07 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
conduct or carry on a business or activity on a licensed premises without
having first obtained a license for the following accessory amusement devices:
      (1)   Amusement devices, including but not limited to electronic games:
$50 per device
      (2)   Pool tables: $25 per device
   (B)   The number of devices permitted shall be limited to one device per
1,000 square feet of establishment floor space. However, in no event shall
there be more than six amusement devices or four pool tables per licensed
premises. Games of chance that are apparently used for gambling purposes are
prohibited.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81; Am. Ord. 1433, passed 11-1-93; Am. Ord. 1899,
passed 6-3-02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 REBATE OF FEE.
   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license fee or part
thereof by reason of the death of the licensee or by reason of nonuse of such
license, or by reason of a change in the location of the business, occupation
or activity of such licensee.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.09 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses required by this subchapter shall be for a full year commencing
January 1, unless otherwise specifically provided, and the full license fee
shall be paid unless at the time the first application is made there are less
than six months in the license year remaining, in which case the fee shall be ½
the annual fee prescribed herein. All licenses required by this subchapter
shall expire on December 31, next after issuance, unless previously revoked.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.10 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall send written notification of license renewal
and investigation to be received by licensee prior to December 1 for the
following year. Investigation for license renewal will be made from December 1
through December 15 of current year.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is authorized to issue license requested hereunder
if the investigation reveals there is no change in status, circumstance or
disqualification as enumerated in §
111.05 for the preceding year. If the investigation reveals any change for the
prior year, the Board of Trustees shall determine if a license should issue.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No licensee may assign, sell or transfer his license to any other person,
even if such other person intends to conduct the same business, occupation or
activity as the licensee at the location used by the licensee. The license is
issued to the premises described therein and for no other location. Such other
person must apply and pay the fee for a new license in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. (Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The Village President may revoke or suspend any license issued hereunder if
it shall appear to his satisfaction from the report of the License Enforcement
Officer or any village officer making an inspection or investigation or from
any other available information, that the licensee is violating any law or
ordinance, or is operating in a manner not conductive to the public health,
morals or safety.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.13 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING AND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, occupation or
activity if the premises and building to be used for such purpose do not fully
comply with all applicable provisions of all other ordinances of the village,
including the fire prevention, building and zoning regulations.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 PROOF OF CURRENT INSPECTION BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   All licensees must possess proof of current inspection by the County Health
Department.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.15 LICENSE CERTIFICATE OR INSIGNIA; LOSS; ALTERATION OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   In case any licensee who has been furnished a license certificate or
license insignia, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, shall
lose the same, it shall be within the discretion of the Village Clerk to
authorize the issuance of a duplicate certificate or insignia upon the making
of an affidavit of loss by such person and the payment of a fee to be set by
the Board of Trustees to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall add to, alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any
license certificate or sticker or other insignia which has been or is being
issued by the village.
      (2)   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away
without the consent of the owner any license certificate or sticker or other
insignia which has been issued by the village, except that said certificate or
said sticker or other insignia may be removed after the licensed business,
occupation or activity has been discontinued or the licensed premises have been
abandoned.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81)
§ 111.16 SWEEPSTAKES MACHINES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply.
      PRIZE. Any gift, award, good, service, credit, coupon, gratuity, or
anything else of value whether monetary or otherwise, which may be transferred
to a person, whether possession of the prize is actually transferred at the
point of entry or placed in an account or other record as evidence of the
intent to transfer said prize.
      SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, advertising scheme, or other promotion in which a
person may enter to win or become eligible to receive any prize, with or
without payment of an entry fee, the determination of which is based upon the
element of chance.
      SWEEPSTAKES MACHINE. Any stand-alone, table top, or similar mechanically,
electrically, or electronically operated device in which a participant is
entered into a sweepstakes or similar promotion wherein the participant has the
option to reveal the results of their entry via display of actual or simulated
game play, which may mimic poker or any other kind of card game, keno, bingo,
craps, slot machine, or any other gambling game, or any other amusement or game
in which the outcome is or appears to be in whole or in part independent of the
skill or dexterity of the player, and thereafter the results of entry are
revealed, a prize or other form of credit that may be exchanged for a prize,
whether in the form of a printed ticket or otherwise, is or may be provided to
the player.
   (B)   Sweepstakes machines prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
or persons to own, lease, or place into operation a sweepstakes machine in any
place of business or location open to the public within the corporate limits of
the village.
   (C)   Penalty. See §
111.99.
(Ord. 3220, passed 8-5-19)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each offense.
It shall be deemed a separate offense on each day during which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1068, passed 11-2-81; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 112: ELEVATORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Construction of elevators; permit required
   
112.03   Licensing and inspection of elevators
   
112.04   Fees
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELEVATOR. Any mechanical lift operated by any source of power, designed,
intended or used to carry or transport individuals or products between floors
of any building, which system may be operated by any method including
hydraulically, cable or gear or cog mechanism.
   PUBLIC ELEVATOR. Any elevator located within the corporate limits of the
village, except it shall not apply to elevators located in occupied single-
family residences.
(Ord. 1191, passed 9-21-87)
§ 112.02 CONSTRUCTION OF ELEVATORS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No elevator shall be constructed in the village without an elevator
construction permit. Prior to the construction of any elevator within the
corporate limits of the village, the owner of the premises upon which
construction is intended shall submit a complete set of plans, drawings and
specifications to the village for review and approval. The village shall cause
such plans to be reviewed within 60 calendar days from date of receipt. If the
plans and specifications are rejected, the village shall as part of its review
advise the owner/applicant in writing of the specific conditions resulting in
such denial. Upon approval of all plans and specifications the village will
issue the owner/applicant a permit for elevator construction.
(Ord. 1191, passed 9-21-87) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSING AND INSPECTION OF ELEVATORS.
   All public elevators in the village shall be licensed. The village shall
semi-annually inspect and upon passing such inspection issue a license allowing
the operation of such elevator. The inspection and licensing of elevators shall
be for the purpose of determining the safe operation of these devices and
shall, among other things, include a review and inspection of door mechanisms,
slides, controls, lighting, structural soundness and mechanical condition using
standards accepted by the elevator industry. If the inspection reveals safety
deficiencies the elevator shall immediately be closed to public use until it is
fully repaired and has passed reinspection. Upon passing inspection and payment
of fees as required herein the village will issue a license for a six-month
period.
(Ord. 1191, passed 9-21-87) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for inspection and approval of construction plans and initial
post-construction inspection shall be set by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The fee for semi-annual elevator inspection and license shall be set
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Fees for each additional required inspection shall be set by the Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 1191, passed 9-21-87)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any other remedies available at law or equity, any individual
or firm, corporation, trust, partnership or any owning, leasing or occupying of
any property or building which is subject to this chapter shall on violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$750 for each offense with each day the offense takes place considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1191, passed 9-21-87; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 113: INTOXICATING LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Scope
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Possession of alcoholic beverages in public places
   
113.04   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on private property
License Regulations
   
113.15   License personal privilege
   
113.16   Application for license; specific forms
   
113.17   Restrictions on issuance of license
   
113.18   Classification of licenses; fees
   
113.18.1 License fee
   
113.18.2 Live entertainment
   
113.19   Issuance of license
   
113.20   Limitation on number of licenses
   
113.20.1   License notification requirements
   
113.21   Duration of license; proration of fee
   
113.22   Renewal
   
113.23   Posting of license
   
113.24   Change of location
   
113.25   Suspension or revocation of license
   
113.26   Unlawful denial of use of accommodations and privileges by agents or
employees of licensee
Retail Sales
   
113.35   Responsibility for proper operation of business
   
113.36   Hours of sales
   
113.37   Closing hours for licensed premises
   
113.38   Premises to be kept in sanitary condition
   
113.39   Contagious diseases among employees
   
113.40   Use of slot machines, pinball machines, and other devices
   
113.41   Live entertainment; undesirable elements or disorderly conduct
prohibited
   
113.42   Sales near churches, school and the like
   
113.43   Sales in certain premises prohibited
   
113.44   Sale to minors or intoxicated persons; exception
   
113.45   Sealing and removal of open wine bottles
Persons 21 Years and Under
   
113.55   Display of notice
   
113.56   Prohibiting persons under age of 21 to remain on licensed premises
   
113.57   Written evidence of age and identity required
   
113.58   Misrepresentation of age
   
113.59   Purchase or possession of alcoholic liquor; exception
   
113.60   Tending bar by underage persons prohibited
   
113.61   Sale, gift or delivery to minor
   
113.62   Possession or consumption of alcohol by a gathering including minor at
residence
   
113.63   Parental responsibility
Fall Festival
   
113.75   Permit required; application
   
113.76   Application fee
   
113.77   Approval or denial of application
   
113.78   Duration
   
113.79   Balustrades; construction and requirements
   
113.80   (Reserved)
   
113.81   Outdoor beer garden/cafe construction and requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
113.90   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
113.91   Records of licenses to be kept
   
113.92   Right of entry for inspection
   
113.93   Hearings before Local Liquor Control Commissioner
 
   
113.98   Violations
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public intoxication, see § 132.08
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the village shall be protected and temperance
in the consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted by
careful control and regulation of the sale of alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Spirits, wine, beer, ale and every other liquid or solid
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
   BAR. A counter over and upon which alcoholic beverages are prepared and
where consumers of alcoholic beverages sit or stand to receive and/or consume
such beverages.
   BOWLING ALLEY. An establishment that devotes more than 50% of its gross
floor area to bowling lanes, equipment, and playing area.
   CLUB. A not-for-profit corporation organized under the laws of this state
solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquor, and which conforms to the definition of a club
in section 2.24 of An Act relating to alcoholic liquors or as the same may be
hereafter amended.
   CONGREGATE ELDERLY HOUSING FACILITY. An assisted living facility or
independent living facility, but not a long-term care facility or treatment
facility, as defined by the village zoning ordinances, as amended from time to
time.
   FLOOR AREA. Of the area open to the general public inside a retail
establishment, that portion which is designed and used exclusively for the
display of merchandise for sale.
   FRANKFORT HISTORICAL DISTRICT. That territory in the village situated within
and bounded on the south by Nebraska Street including that parcel situated on
the southeast corner of Ash Street and Nebraska Street and bounded on the east
by a strip of land 475 feet east of White Street and bounded on the north by
Elwood Street running to Smith Street, then at this junction 88 feet north of
Elwood Street west some 225 feet and bounded on the west by a line 160 feet
west of Hickory Street, all of which is indicated and defined by the Historical
District Map of the village.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. A benevolent, nationally chartered or recognized,
not-for-profit corporation of a national scope, such as the Veterans of Foreign
Wars (VFW), the American Legion, and the Elks Club.
   LICENSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club holding a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. A person acting, singing, playing an instrument or
otherwise performing in person for compensation or profit.
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner and
any committee or agency appointed by the Commissioner to assist with the
discharge of the Commissioner’s duties hereunder.
   MICROBREWERY/DISTILLERY/WINERY WITH SAMPLING AREA. A facility in which beer,
wine, or other alcoholic beverages are brewed, fermented, or distilled for
distribution and off-site consumption and/or limited on site consumption and
which possesses the appropriate license from the State of Illinois. Retail
sales and on site consumption of products is permitted.
   MOVIE THEATER. A building over 50,000 square feet with at least six rooms,
each measuring over 2,000 square feet and outfitted with a screen and
projector, that are specifically designed for the purpose of showing motion
pictures to the public as the principal business.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT CORPORATION. A corporation organized under the Illinois Not
For Profit Corporation Act for any of the purposes set forth in Article 3, §§
105/103.05(a) of that Act.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
served without sleeping accommodations,  such space being provided with
adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining equipment and capacity and having
employed therein a sufficient number of employees to prepare, cook and serve
suitable food for its guests.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use and consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SERVICE BAR. A counter over and upon which alcoholic liquor is served
separating the area within which alcoholic drinks are prepared from the area
where a waitress or other employee of the dram shop receives said alcoholic
beverages for delivery to customers seated at tables or elsewhere within the
dram shop other than the SERVICE BAR.
   TO SELL. To solicit or receive an order for, or keep or expose for sale and
to keep with intent to sell.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1429, passed 9-7-93; Am. Ord. 2274, passed
4-3-06; Am. Ord. 3017, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 3039, passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord.
3228, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 3455, passed 6-17-24)
§ 113.03 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except at events which have obtained a valid Class I liquor license or block
party permit and which fully comply with all village ordinances, no person
shall be in possession of an alcoholic beverage in or upon any public place
within the corporate limits of the village, unless the alcoholic beverage is in
its original container with the seal unbroken. For the purposes of this
section, a public place shall include, but is not limited to, any public
street, alley, parking area, sidewalk, easement or common area and any drive,
parking area or common area serving a commercial establishment or multi-family
residential structure. Wine that is resealed in accordance with the provisions
of §
113.45 and not tampered with shall not be deemed in violation of this section.
(Ord. 876, passed 10-7-74; Am. Ord. 2275, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2395, passed
6-18-07) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall open private property to the general public and,
without obtaining a liquor license for said property from the village, permit
the consumption, use, sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages upon said
property. Any person consuming, using, selling or distributing alcoholic
beverages upon unlicensed private property that has been opened to the general
public shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to a block party which has obtained a
valid permit therefor from the village and which fully complies with all
village ordinances.
(Ord. 2275, passed 4-3-06) Penalty, see §
113.99
LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 113.15 LICENSE PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, valid for a period not to
exceed one year, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and the
same shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or be subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; SPECIFIC FORMS.
   Application for a license shall be made to and filed with the Village
President, shall be in writing, under oath and signed by the applicant, if an
individual, by at least two partners if a partnership or the president or
manager and the secretary if a corporation or limited liability company. Such
application shall be presented not less than ten days prior to the date
issuance is desired and shall be substantially in one of the following forms
hereby adopted and referred to in this chapter by reference:
   (A)   Application for new retailer's liquor license.
   (B)   Application for renewed retailer's liquor license.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06)
§ 113.17 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No such license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who had been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the Commission determines that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in such person's application and the Commission's
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (7)   A person whose license issued under the laws of the state or this
chapter has been revoked for cause;
      (8)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (9)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason;
      (10)   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member,
officer, manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning
in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
and residence within the village;
      (11)   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated or organized in state, or unless it is a foreign corporation or
foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the Illinois
Business Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability Company Act to
transact business in the state;
      (12)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
by the licensee;
      (13)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of a federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to February 1, 1934 or has forfeited his or her bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
      (14)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
      (15)   Any law enforcing public officials, including members of the
Village Liquor Control Commission, the President of the Village Board of
Trustees, any member of the Village Board of Trustees or any president or
member of the County Board; and no such official shall have a direct interest
in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a
license may be granted to such official in relation to premises which are not
located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if
the issuance of such license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission
and except that a license may be granted to any member the Village Board of
Trustees in relation to premises that are located within the village if the
sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling
of food, the issuance of the license is approved by the State Commission, the
issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable ordinances of the
village, and the trustee granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor
issues pending before the Village Board of Trustees. Notwithstanding any
provision of this paragraph to the contrary, a member of the Village Board of
Trustees other than the President of the Village Board of Trustees or a member
of the County Board other than the President of the County Board may have a
direct interest in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor as
long as he or she is not a law enforcing public official. To prevent any
conflict of interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in any
meetings, hearings or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (16)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (17)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of Section 28-1.1 or
28-3 of the "Criminal Code of 1961," approved July 28, 1961, as heretofore or
hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the
aforesaid statutory provisions;
      (18)   A person or entity to whom a Federal Wagering Stamp has been
issued by the Federal Government for the current tax period, unless the person
or entity is eligible to be issued a license under the Raffles Act or the
Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
      (19)   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in subsection (a) of Section 6-
21 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06)
§ 113.18 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   Every person, partnership, firm or corporation engaged in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in the village shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses
shall be divided into the following classes:
   (A)   (1)   Class A-1 — Tavern permitting bar and carry-outs. Class A-
1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the specified premises at or over a bar, a service bar and/or at tables
including the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors in their original containers,
with seals unbroken, for consumption elsewhere than upon the premises (carry-
outs).
      (2)   Class A-2 — Microbrewery/Distillery/Winery permitting sampling area
and carry-outs. Class A-2 licenses shall authorize the production, retail sale,
and limited on site consumption of alcoholic liquor upon the specified
premises. Retail sales shall include alcoholic liquors in their original
containers, with seals unbroken, and two liter or smaller growler type bottles
of draft beer and ale with unbroken tamper evident seal affixed by the licensee
for consumption elsewhere than upon the premises of the facility that
manufactures the beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages. In addition to all
other requirements imposed by law, a Class A-2 license is subject to the
following additional terms and conditions:
         (a)   Alcohol consumed and sold at retail on the premises shall be
limited to beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages manufactured on site.
         (b)   All alcohol samples shall be served to customers over a service
counter as defined in § 113.02. Dedicated wait staff and tableside service is
prohibited.
         (c)   Customer seating at the service counter is prohibited.
         (d)   Amusement devices and televisions are not permitted.
         (e)   Live entertainment is prohibited unless permitted via a
temporary use permit.
         (f)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours of 10:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m.
         (g)   Sampling areas shall not exceed 25% of the gross floor area or
1,000 square feet whichever is less.
         (h)   Retail displays of packaged alcohol shall not exceed 10% of the
customer floor area.
   (B)   (1)   Class B-1 — Bowling alley permitting bar and no carry-outs.
Class B-1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the specified premises at or over a bar, a service bar and/or
at tables in conjunction with the sale of food and the operation of a bowling
alley. The sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption off the premises where
they are sold (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited.
      (2)   Class B-2 — Movie Theater permitting bar and no carry-outs. Class
B-2 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the specified premises at or over a bar, a service bar and/or
at tables. The sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption off the premises where
they are sold (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited.
   (C)   (1)   Class C-1 — Full service restaurant, permitting bar, no carry-
outs. Class C-1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor in conjunction with the operation of a full
service restaurant as herein defined. Sales at or over a bar, a service bar
and/or at tables are permitted. The sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption
off the premises where they are sold (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited,
provided that partially consumer bottles of wine may be sealed and removed as
provided in § 113.45. No C-1 liquor license shall be issued unless the
restaurant is found consistent with the following standards:
         (a)   Bar and lounge areas within the restaurant shall not contain
more than 25% of the total number of seats located within the premises nor
shall they exceed 25% of the total customer floor area.
         (b)   Bar and lounge areas within the restaurant shall be reasonably
delineated from the dining area by a wall, partition or similar permanent
physical improvement.
         (c)   Electronic video displays and their accompanying audio,
including but not limited to televisions and projection screens, shall not be
located or transmitted outside of the dedicated bar and/or lounge area.
         (d)   All menu items shall be available until one hour prior to
closing and shall be prepared by an on-site kitchen staff.
      (2)   Class C-2 — Restaurant/tavern, permitting bar, no carry-outs. Class
C-2 licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the premises specified of
alcoholic liquor in conjunction with the operation of a restaurant as herein
defined. Sales at or over a bar, a service bar and/or at tables are permitted.
Food sales comprise the majority of all revenues generated by the business. The
sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption off the premises where they are sold
(carry-outs) is expressly prohibited, provided that partially consumer bottles
of wine may be sealed and removed as provided in § 113.45. No C-2 liquor
license shall be issued unless the restaurant is found consistent with the
following standards:
         (a)   Bar and lounge areas within the Restaurant/tavern shall not
contain more than 40% of the total number of seats located within the premises
nor shall they exceed 40% of the total customer floor area.
         (b)   Amusement devices may be provided in accordance with Chapter 111
of this Code.
         (c)   A full menu, including entrees and side dishes prepared and
cooked by an on-site kitchen staff, shall be available to customers until 10:00
p.m. daily. After 10:00 p.m., and in the event a full menu is no longer
provided, a reduced menu that includes appetizers, sandwiches, snacks, hors
d’oeuvres or other similar foods, shall be available to customers until one
hour prior to close.
   (D)   (1)   Class D-1 - Restaurant, permitting bar and limited carry-outs. 
         (a)   Class D-1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the
premises of alcoholic liquor in conjunction with but ancillary to the operation
of a restaurant, sale over a bar, service bar and/or at tables is permitted.
The sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises where they are
sold (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited except for the retail sale only of
wine, beer, and ale so long as in their original bottles with seal unbroken,
two litter or smaller growler type bottles of draft beer and ale with unbroken
tamper evident seal affixed by the licensee and partially consumed bottles of
wine sealed and removed from the premises are provided in § 113.45.
         (b)   Because this license contemplates very limited carry-out sales
and area used for the retail sales of the licensed carry-out beverages, a Class
D-1 licensed premises shall have no more than 16 square feet of floor space and
32 square feet of shelving/racks/display for retail sales of licensed beverages
for off premises consumption.
      (2)   Class D-2 - Restaurant/Brew Pub, permitting bar and limited carry-
outs.
         (a)   Class D-2 licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the
premises of alcoholic liquor in conjunction with but ancillary to the operation
of a restaurant. Class D-2 license holders must also hold a brew pub license
issued by the State of Illinois. Sale of alcoholic liquor over a bar, service
bar and/or tables is permitted. Sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the premises where they are sold (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited except
for the retail sale only of beer and/or ale manufactured on the premises,
provided it is packaged as a keg, a two liter or smaller growler bottle, or
other retail packaging with unbroken tamper evident seal affixed by the
licensee. Partially consumed bottles of wine sealed and removed from the
premises as provided in §
113.45.
         (b)   In addition to all other requirements imposed by law, a Class D-
2 license is subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
            1.   Manufacture of alcoholic liquors must occur during locally
permitted business hours and shall be clearly subordinate to the operation of a
restaurant to engage in the sale of alcoholic liquor.
            2.   Should the licensee engage in state authorized distribution
activities, the licensee shall cause there to be no more than one distribution
vehicle trip to service the premises per day.
            3.   Bar and lounge areas within the restaurant shall not contain
more than 40% of the total number of seats located within the premises nor
shall they exceed 40% of the total customer floor area.
            4.   A full menu, including entrees and side dishes prepared and
cooked by an on-site kitchen staff, shall be available to customers until 10:00
p.m. daily. After 10:00 p.m., and in the event a full menu is no longer
provided, a reduced menu that includes appetizers, snacks, hors d'oeuvres or
other similar foods, shall be available to customers until one hour prior to
close.
            5.   Retail displays of packaged alcohol shall not exceed, in
total, 10% of the customer floor area.
      (3)   Class D-3 — Bistro and wine bar, beer and wine only, permitting bar
and limited carry-outs. Class D-3 licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon
the premises of beer and wine only in conjunction with the operation of a
restaurant and specialty retail wine shop. The retail sale of beer or wine in
their original containers, with seals unbroken, for consumption off the
premises where they are sold (carry-outs) is permitted provided no more than
10%of the customer floor area of a Class D-3 licensed premises is used for this
purpose. The Class D-3 license authorizes the licensed premises to operate up
to 24 self-service wine dispensing taps, which may dispense no more than six
fluid ounces of wine at a time, provided that each self-service tap is
monitored by recorded video and at least one trained employee per 35 customers
at all times. Additionally, no more than six tasting events per year for
spirits, wine or beer, as “tasting” is further defined under § ` of the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission, may be provided upon the licensed premises.
Partially consumed bottles of wine sealed and removed from the premises is
permitted as provided in §
113.45.
      (4)   Class D-4 — Bistro and wine bar, permitting bar and limited carry-
outs. Class D-4 licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the premises of
alcoholic liquor in conjunction with the operation of a restaurant and
specialty retail wine shop. The retail sale of beer or wine in their original
containers, with seals unbroken, for consumption off the premises where they
are sold (carry-outs) is permitted provided no more than 10% of the customer
floor area of a Class D-4 licensed premises is used for this purpose. The Class
D-4 license authorizes the licensed premises to operate up to 24 self-service
wine dispensing taps, which may dispense no more than six fluid ounces of wine
at a time, provided that each self-service tap is monitored by recorded video
and at least one trained employee per 35 customers at all times. Additionally,
no more than six tasting events per year for spirits, wine or beer, as
"tasting" is further defined under section 100.10 of the Illinois Liquor
Control Commission, may be provided upon the licensed premises. Partially
consumed bottles of wine sealed and removed from the premises is permitted as
provided in §
113.45.
   (E)   Class E — Restaurant, prohibiting bar and carry-outs.
      (1)   Class E-1 — Restaurant, prohibiting bar and carry-outs. Class E-
1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in conjunction
with a restaurant as herein defined. The sale of alcoholic liquors across a bar
is expressly prohibited, but a service bar or bars are permitted. The sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption off the premises (carry-outs) is expressly
prohibited, provided that partially consumed bottles of wine may be sealed and
removed as provided in §
113.45.
      (2)   Class E-2 — Restaurant, prohibiting bar and carry-outs - beer and
margaritas only. Class E-2 licenses shall only authorize the retail sale of
beer and margaritas only and no other alcoholic drinks or alcoholic liquors in
conjunction with a restaurant as herein defined. The sale of beer and
margaritas across a bar or for consumption off the premises (carry-outs) is
expressly prohibited, but a service bar is permitted. (Note: For purposes of
this license class, MARGARITA means a drink which uses tequila as its primary
but not necessary exclusive alcoholic liquor component).
      (3)   Class E-3 — Restaurant, prohibiting bar and carry-outs - beer and
wine only. Class E-3 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine
only, and no other alcoholic drinks or alcoholic liquors in conjunction with a
restaurant as herein defined. The sale of beer and wine across a bar or for
consumption off the premises (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited, but a
service bar is permitted.
      (4)   Class E-4 — Restaurant, prohibiting bar and carry-outs - beer,
wine, and bourbon only. Class E-4 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of
beer, wine, and bourbon only, in conjunction with a restaurant as herein
defined. The sale of beer, wine and bourbon across a bar is expressly
prohibited, but a service bar is permitted. The sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption off the premises (carry-outs) is expressly prohibited, provided
that partially consumed bottles of wine may be sealed and removed as provided
in §
113.45.
   (F)   (1)   Class F-1 — Packaged liquor store (carry-outs). Class F-
1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquors in their
original packages with seals unbroken for consumption at places other than upon
the licensed premises. Except for the sale of minor ancillary items, the entire
premises shall be devoted to the sale of alcoholic liquors. The consumption of
alcoholic liquors upon such premises is expressly prohibited.
      (2)   Class F-2 — Grocery store (carry-outs). Class F-2 licenses shall
authorize the retail sale by grocery stores of alcoholic liquors in their
original packages with seals unbroken for consumption at places other than upon
the licensed premises. The consumption of alcoholic liquors upon such premises
is expressly prohibited. For the purpose of this division, “grocery store”
shall mean a retail establishment with a floor area of more than 5,000 square
feet offering for sale a full line of groceries and household items. Alcoholic
liquors shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor area.
      (3)   Class F-3 — Convenience store (carry-outs). Class F-3 licenses
shall authorize the retail sale by convenience stores of alcoholic liquors in
their original packages with seals unbroken for consumption at places other
than upon the licensed premises. The consumption of alcoholic liquors upon such
premises is expressly prohibited. For the purpose of this division,
“convenience store” shall mean a retail establishment with a floor area of
5,000 square feet or less offering for sale a limited line of groceries and
household items intended for the convenience of the neighborhood. Alcoholic
liquors shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor area. Except in
refrigerated areas, displays of merchandise for sale shall not exceed five feet
in height.
      (4)   Class F-4 — Beer and wine (carry-outs). Class F-4 licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of beer and wine in their original packages with
seals unbroken for consumption at places other than upon the licensed premises.
The consumption of alcoholic liquors upon such premises is expressly
prohibited. Beer and wine shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor area.
Except in refrigerated areas, displays of merchandise for sale shall not exceed
five feet in height.
      (5)   Class F-5 - Grocery Store (carry-outs and in-store cafe).
         (a)   Class F-5 licenses shall authorize the following types of sales
within a grocery store:
            1.   Carry-outs. The retail sale of alcoholic liquors in their
original packages with seals unbroken for consumption at places other than the
licensed premises.
            2.   In-store cafe. The retail sale of individual servings by the
glass of beer, wine or sake only for on-premises consumption, solely in a
designated serving/seating area of a cafe, where a selection of both hot and
cold foods such as sushi, tapas, or other “small plates,” appetizers,
sandwiches, salads, soups, pastries and baked goods are freshly prepared and
regularly served and available for purchase and carry out.
         (b)   In addition to all other requirements imposed by law, a Class F-
5 license is subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
            1.   For purposes of this F-5 license classification, a grocery
store shall mean a retail establishment with a minimum gross floor area of not
less than 40,000 square feet in the business of selling a full line of grocery
products, including staples, foodstuffs, meats, fish, produce, dairy products,
deli, bakery and household items and supplies.
            2.   Not more than 10% of the grocery store floor area will be used
for carry-out liquors and not more than 5% of its gross floor area used for
cafe food preparation and serving/seating area.
            3.   Since the service of alcoholic liquor in the cafe is merely an
adjunct operation of the grocery store, the cafe shall not be advertised,
otherwise held out to be, or its business conducted as though it is a drinking
establishment.
            4.   At anytime liquor is available for sale in the cafe, the
licensee shall have a sufficient number of staff in the cafe to assure, among
other things, liquor is only being consumed in the designated cafe serving/
seating area and by a person of legal age.
            5.   Alcoholic liquor sold in their original packages intended for
consumption at places other than the licensed premises shall not be opened or
consumed on the premises, including the in-store cafe and its serving/seating
area.
   (G)   Class G — The sale of draft beer and draft ale only, no carry-outs.
Class G licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the licensed premises for
the consumption of the beverage commonly known as draft beer and/or draft ale
only. Draft beer and draft ale are defined for purposes hereof as beer or ale
in bulk, under pressure, in a barrel or similar pressurized type container, the
size of which shall not be less than a quarter barrel or equivalent thereto and
drawn from the same via a spigot or faucet for individual servings, in not
larger than pitcher amounts, as opposed to beer or ale which is in a can,
bottle or any other type of container and poured from the same. Sales at or
over a service bar and/or at tables are permitted. The sale of alcoholic
liquors for consumption off the premises where they are sold (carry-out) is
expressly prohibited.
   (H)   Class H — Sale of beer and wine only, no carry-outs. Class H licenses
shall authorize the retail sale upon the premises of the beverages commonly
known as beer and wine. Only sale of beer and wine at or over a service bar
and/or at eating tables is permitted. The sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption off the premises where they are sold (carry-outs) is expressly
prohibited.
   (I)   Class I — Outing Permits.
      (1)   Class I-1 — Outing Permits - single event. Class I-1 licenses shall
authorize the sale of alcoholic liquors at the place specified in the
application, for picnics or other public outings, for periods not to exceed
three days, or for a period of not to exceed five days for Fall Festival.
      (2)   Class I-2 — Outing Permits - public premises events only; service,
delivery and sales permitted; full bar, and no carry outs. Class I-2 licenses
shall authorize the sale and delivery of alcoholic liquors as may be permitted
in § 6-15 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15) or
Illinois law in buildings or on property owned, belonging to or under the
control of any political subdivision which are within the corporate limits of
the village. The terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions contained in
the enabling statute for the political subdivision, including § 6-15 of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15) and applicable
sections of the Administrative Code of Illinois, if any, as from time to time
amended are incorporated as requirements for the issuance of a Class I-
2 License.
      (3)   Class I-3 — Outing Permits - public premises events only; service,
delivery and sales permitted; beer and wine only, and no carry outs. Class I-
3 licenses shall authorize the sale and delivery of beer and wine only as may
be permitted in § 6-15 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5,
§ 6-15) or Illinois law in buildings or on property owned, belonging to or
under the control of any political subdivision which are within the corporate
limits of the village. The terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions
contained in the enabling statute for the political subdivision, including § 6-
15 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15) and
applicable sections of the Administrative Code of Illinois, if any, as from
time to time amended are incorporated as requirements for the issuance of a
Class I-3 License. In addition to and not in lieu of the compliance with all
requirements of the State of Illinois, each Class I-2 and Class I-3 Licensee
for the licensed event is subject to each of the following provisions:
         (a)   The political subdivision applicant must comply with and subject
to all application and other requirements of the Village of Frankfort’s liquor
control ordinances.
         (b)   The governing board of the political subdivision owning or
controlling the building or property where an event will be held must approve
each event.
         (c)   Any Class I-2 and Class I-3 License shall be in effect for not
more than two consecutive days per event with not more than six events on the
property owned or controlled by the political subdivision per calendar year.
Hours of operation shall be limited to 11:00 p.m. (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday and Sunday) and 1:00 a.m. (Friday and Saturday).
         (d)   The political subdivision represents to the village that its
governing body has adopted adequate procedures and policies, including public
safety, control of the sale, distribution and sensible consumption of
authorized liquor at events at its facilities.
         (e)   Alcoholic liquor only can be sold, distributed, delivered or
consumed in a restricted area accessible for the event only; not for general
public access.
         (f)   Any persons managing, supervising the event or selling,
distributing, providing or delivering alcoholic beverages must be at least 21
years of age and have successfully completed a State of Illinois approved
Basset training program within two years of the event. The political
subdivision shall maintain adequate records, including copies of Basset
certificates to establish compliance with this requirements.
         (g)   The political subdivision shall have or require dram shop
insurance coverage for the event.
         (h)   The political subdivision shall require alcoholic liquor to be
controlled to prevent sale, distribution or consumption by persons under 21 and
prohibit alcoholic liquor from being taken from the restricted area which is
not accessible to the general public during the event.
   (J)   Class J — Club License. Class J licenses shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises by the club as defined in §
113.02 to which it is issued, to members of the club, to not- for-profit
organizations which are conducting dances or other public gathers upon the
premises and to such organization’s invitee, to private persons conducting
private gatherings and their invitee. The sale of alcoholic beverages to
members of the general public is expressly forbidden.
   (K)   Class K — Fraternal organization license. Class K licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquors on the specified premises by the
Fraternal Organization to members of the Fraternal Organization, to not-for-
profit organizations conducting dances or other public gatherings upon the
premises and to such organizations’ invitees, and to private persons conducting
private gatherings and their invitees, but not to members of the general
public.
   (L)   Class L — Beer and wine (carry-outs, limited consumption permitted).
Class L licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine in their
original packages with seals unbroken. Except for the sale of minor ancillary
items, the entire premises shall be devoted to the sale of beer and/or wine.
Consumption of alcohol on premises shall be limited to one tasting room as
provided for in the village zoning ordinance.
   (M)   Class M — Restaurant, prohibiting bar and permitting limited carry-
outs.  
      (1)   Class M license shall authorize the retail sale upon the premises
of beer an wine only, in conjunction with but ancillary to the operation of a
restaurant. Sale over a bar is prohibited; however, sale to customers at tables
is permitted. The retail sale of beer and wine for consumption off the premises
(carry-outs) is permitted so long as in their original bottles with seal
unbroken and partially consumed bottles of wine sealed and removed form the
premises as provided in §
113.45.
      (2)   Because this license contemplates very limited carry-out sales and
area used for the retail sales of the licensed carry-out beverages, a Class M
licensed premises shall have no more than 16 square feet of floor space and 32
square feet of shelving/racks/display for retail sales of licensed beverages
for off premises consumption.
   (N)   Class N-Private banquet event facilities; private events only, bar and
table service, delivery and sales permitted; full bar; and no carry-outs. 
      (1)   Class N licenses shall authorize bar and table service of alcoholic
liquors, as may be permitted in § 6-15 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15) or Illinois law, in private banquet event facilities,
including but not limited to banquet halls, and in conjunction with a private
party, private banquet, or any other scheduled private event not for entry of
the general public. The terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions
contained in the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15) and
applicable sections of the Administrative Code of Illinois, if any, as from
time to time amended are incorporated as requirements for the issuance of a
Class N License.
      (2)   In addition to and not in lieu of the compliance with all
requirements of the State of Illinois, each Class N Licensee is subject to each
of the following provisions:
         (a)   Alcoholic liquor only can be distributed, delivered or consumed
in an area which is not accessible to the general public.
         (b)   Any persons managing, supervising the event or selling,
distributing, providing or delivering alcoholic beverages must be at least 21
years of age and have successfully completed a State of Illinois approved
Basset training program within two years of the event. The private banquet
event facility shall maintain adequate records, including copies of Basset
certificates to establish compliance with this requirements.
         (c)   The private banquet event facility shall have or require dram
shop insurance coverage for the event.
         (d)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 11:00 p.m. (Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday) and 1:00 a.m. (Friday and Saturday).
         (e)   The private banquet event facility shall require alcoholic
liquor to be controlled to prevent sale, distribution or consumption by persons
under 21 and prohibit alcoholic liquor from being taken from the restricted
area which is not accessible to the general public during the event.
   (O)   Class O — Congregate elderly housing facility. Class O licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or consumption on the
premises of an actively operating congregate elderly housing facility
containing at least 75 residential units, as long as the facility also offers
food during the hours it offers alcoholic liquor for consumption. Sales of
alcoholic liquor by Class O licensees shall be to residents of the facility and
their guests only. The facility shall not be permitted to advertise or promote
itself as containing a pub, bar or tavern, shall not be permitted to have any
exterior signage related in any way to the sale of alcoholic liquors, and shall
have no public access from outside of the building directly to the room where
alcoholic liquor is provided or sold.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1261, passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 1381,
passed 6-15-92); Am. Ord. 1429, passed 9-7-93; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98;
Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2395, passed 6-18-07; Am. Ord. 2545,
passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 2644, passed 3-15-10; Am. Ord. 2726, passed 6-20-11;
Am. Ord. 2745, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2800, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2826,
passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 2875, passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 2879, passed 11-18-13;
Am. Ord. 2958, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 3017, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 3039,
passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord. 3063, passed 10-17-16; Am. Ord. 3126, passed 12-18-17;
Am. Ord. 3221, passed 8-19-19; Am. Ord. 3228, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 3273,
passed 11-16-20; Am. Ord. 3289, passed 5-3-21; Am. Ord. 3455, passed 6-17-24)
§ 113.18.1 LICENSE FEE.  
   License fees for all classes are set forth below and as subsequently amended
from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
CLASS FEE
CLASS                   FEE
A-1, A-2                $1,700
B-1, B-2                $1,700
C-1, C-2                $1,700
D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4      $1,700
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4      $1,600
F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5 $1,600
G                       $0
H                       $1,500
I-1                     $0
I-2, I-3                $1,600
J                       $500
K                       $200
L                       $1,600
M                       $1,600
N                       $1,600
O                       $1,500
Entertainment           $200
 
(Am. Ord. 2958, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 3017, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 3025,
passed 4-25-16; Am. Ord. 3039, passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord. 3063, passed 10-17-16;
Am. Ord. 3126, passed 12-18-17; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 8-19-19; Am. Ord. 3228,
passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 3273, passed 11-16-20; Am. Ord. 3289, passed 5-3-21)
§ 113.18.2 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   No live entertainment may be present upon any premises where alcoholic
liquor is sold or offered for sale at retail with the exception that it may be
permitted under Classes A-1, B-1, C, D-1, D-2, E, G, H and I-1, I-2, I-3, M,
and N provided, however, that the applicant desiring to present live
entertainment at the time of the making of application hereunder for any such
class of license shall disclose on the application therefore, the fact that
such entertainment shall be presented, the type and nature of such
entertainment and shall pay an additional fee which shall be set from time to
time by the Board of Trustees. In the event the Liquor Commissioner shall in
his or her sole discretion desire to permit live entertainment on such
premises, he or she shall so indicate in writing and any such license issued
shall on the face thereto indicate that “live entertainment is permitted.” In
the even the Liquor Commission shall in his or her sole discretion deny such
application for live entertainment, he or she shall so indicate in writing on
the application and the applicant shall be so advised within a reasonable
period of time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, live entertainment on any
licensed premises in the Frankfort Historical District shall, if permitted, be
restricted to the following days and times:
   (A)   On Wednesdays and Thursdays, live entertainment will be permitted upon
the premises of the licensee until 10:30 p.m. On Friday and Saturday live
entertainment will be permitted until 1:00 a.m.;
   (B)   On Sundays, live entertainment will be permitted upon the premises of
the licensee until 8:00 p.m.; and
   (C)   No live entertainment will be permitted in the Frankfort Historical
District on Mondays and Tuesdays; nor will live entertainment heard from the
outside of the premises of the licensee be permitted on Sunday evenings during
presentation of Frankfort’s Concerts-on-the-Green.
   (D)   Whenever live entertainment is permitted, the level of noise shall not
exceed 55 decibels prior to 10:30 p.m. and 45 decibels from 10:30 p.m. until
time of closing.
   (E)   All public address systems broadcasting outdoors must be turned off in
conformity with the live entertainment.
(Am. Ord. 2958, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 3017, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 3025,
passed 4-25-16; Am. Ord. 3039, passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord. 3063, passed 10-17-16;
Am. Ord. 3126, passed 12-18-17)
§ 113.19 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   When the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall approve any application,
the applicant shall be issued a license upon the payment in advance of the
required fee, which license shall be in writing over the name and under the
seal of the village and executed by the President of the Village and attested
by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.20 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   There shall be available for issuance the following number of licenses
for each of the following classifications:
      (1)   There shall be issued in the village not more than one Class A-
1 license and not more than zero Class A-2 licenses.
      (2)   There shall be issued in the village not more than one Class B-
1 licenses and not more than one Class B-2 licenses.
      (3)   There shall be issued in the village not more than nine Class C-
1 licenses and not more than six Class C-2 licenses.
      (4)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class D-
l license; not more than one Class D-2 license; not more than zero Class D-
3 licenses; and not more than one Class D-4 license.
      (5)   There shall be issued in the village not more than four Class E-
l licenses; not more than zero Class E-2 license; not more than one Class E-
3 license; and not more than zero Class E-4 licenses.
      (6)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class F-
1 licenses; not more than two Class F-2 licenses; not more than zero Class F-
3 licenses; not more than three Class F-4 licenses; and not more than one Class
F-5 license.
      (7)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class G
licenses.
      (8)   There shall be issued in the village not more than one Class H
license.
      (9)   There is no limitation upon the number of Class I licenses, but
their issuance is entirely within the reasonable discretion of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner; not more than zero Class I-2 licenses; not more than zero
Class I-3 licenses.
      (10)   There shall be issued in the village not more than one Class J
license.
      (11)   There shall be issued in the village not more than one Class K
license.
      (12)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class L
licenses.
      (13)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class M
licenses.
      (14)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class N
licenses.
      (15)   There shall be issued in the village not more than zero Class O
licenses.
   (B)   No more than twelve liquor licenses shall be issued to persons, firms
or corporations to sell or offer for sale at retail, alcoholic liquor within
the Frankfort Historical District. The classification and number of liquor
licenses which may be issued for use in the Frankfort Historical District are
as follows:
      (1)   Not more than one Class A-l license.
      (2)   Not more than one Class B-l license.
      (3)   Not more than four Class C-l licenses and two Class C-2 licenses.
      (4)   Not more than one Class D-2 license and one Class D-4 licenses.
      (5)   Not more than two Class E-l licenses.
      (6)   Not more than zero Class F licenses.
      (7)   Not more than zero Class G licenses.
      (8)   Not more than zero Class H licenses.
      (9)   There is no limitation upon the number of Class I licenses; not
more than zero Class I-2 and zero Class I-3 licenses.
      (10)   Not more than zero Class J licenses.
      (11)   Not more than zero Class K licenses.
      (12)   Not more than zero Class L licenses.
      (13)   Not more than zero Class M licenses.
      (14)   Not more than zero Class N licenses.
      (15)   Not more than zero Class O licenses.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1141, passed 8-19-85; Am. Ord. 1177,
passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 1261, passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 1429, passed 9-7-93; Am.
Ord. 1569, passed 4-15-96; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 1805, passed
5-15-00; Am. Ord. 1900, passed 6-17-02; Am. Ord. 2076, passed 5-17-04; Am. Ord.
2089, passed 6-21-04; Am. Ord. 2123, passed 10-18-04; Am. Ord. 2191, passed 9-
6-05; Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2293, passed 6-5-06; Am. Ord.
2373, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 2382, passed 4-2-07; Am. Ord. 2406, passed 8-6-
07; Am. Ord. 2440, passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. 2476, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 2516,
passed 9-15-08; Am. Ord. 2564, passed 2-2-09; Am. Ord. 2577, passed 3-26-09;
Am. Ord. 2604, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2617, passed 10-5-09; Am. Ord. 2622,
passed 11-2-09; Am. Ord. 2644, passed 3-15-10; Am. Ord. 2647, passed 4-12-10;
Am. Ord. 2661, passed 7-6-10; Am. Ord. 2669, passed 8-2-10; Am. Ord. 2687,
passed 12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2722, passed 5-16-11; Am. Ord. 2726, passed 6-20-11;
Am. Ord. 2728, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2731, passed 7-18-11; Am. Ord. 2745,
passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2751, passed 10-17-11; Am. Ord. 2762, passed 1-9-12;
Am. Ord. 2800, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2801, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2808,
passed 10-1-12; Am. Ord. 2814, passed 11-5-12; Am. Ord. 2824, passed 12-17-12;
Am. Ord. 2826, passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 2827, passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 2830,
passed 1-22-13; Am. Ord. 2864, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2869, passed 9-16-13;
Am. Ord. 2879, passed 11-18-13; Am. Ord. 2886, passed 12-16-13; Am. Ord. 2892,
passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 2893, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 2896, passed 2-18-14;
Am. Ord. 2932, passed 7-21-14; Am. Ord. 2948, passed 11-3-14; Am. Ord. 2959,
passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord. 2963, passed 1-20-15; Am. Ord. 2981, passed 9-8-15; Am.
Ord. 3000, passed 11-2-15; Am. Ord. 3018, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 3062, passed
10-3-16; Am. Ord. 3063, passed 10-17-16; Am. Ord. 3071, passed 11-21-16; Am.
Ord. 3088, passed 3-24-17; Am. Ord. 3099, passed 6-19-17; Am. Ord. 3107, passed
8-7-17; Am. Ord. 3118, passed 10-2-17; Am. Ord. 3123, passed 11-20-17; Am. Ord.
3126, passed 12-18- 17; Am. Ord. 3128, passed 1-16-18; Am. Ord. 3132, passed 2-
5-18; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 8-19-19; Am. Ord. 3224, passed 8-19-19; Am. Ord.
3228, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 3273, passed 11-16-20; Am. Ord. 3276, passed 11-
16-20; Am. Ord. 3282, passed 2-1-21; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-21; Am. Ord.
3289, passed 5-3-21; Am. Ord. 3299, passed 5-17-21; Am. Ord. 3324, passed 10-
18-21; Am. Ord. 3337, passed 1-3-22; Am. Ord. 3363, passed 8-1-22; Am. Ord.
3382, passed 11-7-22; Am. Ord. 3389, passed 1-17-23; Am. Ord. 3411, passed 7-
24-23; Am. Ord. 3473, passed 10-7-24; Am. Ord. 3476, passed 11-4-24; Am. Ord.
3485, passed 12-16-24) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.20.1 LICENSE NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Not later than the day of:
   (A)   The cessation of a business licensed under this chapter; or
   (B)   The cessation of the sale of alcoholic liquor by a business licensed
under this chapter; or
   (C)   The sale, transfer, assignment or alienation of any interest in a
business licensed under this chapter, the liquor licensee shall immediately
notify the Village of Frankfort Liquor Control Commissioner, the Village Clerk
and the Village Administrator of the event in writing by either personal
service or by certified U.S. Mail (return-receipt requested), separately
addressed to each at the Village of Frankfort Administrative Center.
(Ord. 2710, passed 4-18-11) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 DURATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this chapter for a period of less
than one calendar year, unless the same is issued pursuant to application made
subsequent to the first day of any calendar year, in which event the license
shall be issued for the remaining period of the year, and no license shall be
issued for a period of more than one year. Unless otherwise provided by law,
all licenses issued hereunder shall be valid from January 1 or the date of
issuance, whichever comes later, to December 31 of each year.
   (B)   For all licenses issued and in effect on or before June 30 of each
year, the full fee shall be paid. For all licenses issued on or after July 1 of
each year, the fee shall be 50% of the annual fee as hereinbefore established.
All license fees shall be paid to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the
time the application is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village
Treasurer. The required fee shall be submitted with the application. If the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in a general corporate fund
or in such other funds as shall have been designated by the Village Board of
Trustees by proper action.
   (C)   Upon a business licensed under this chapter either:
      (1)   Closing or otherwise ceasing to do business; or
      (2)   Discontinuing or ceasing the sale of alcoholic liquor, the liquor
license issued to its licensee shall automatically terminate and become null
and void and the number of available liquor licenses authorized in the
classification (class) of the terminated license shall automatically be reduced
by one.
   (D)   Upon the sale, transfer, assignment or any other alienation of any
interest of any business licensed under this chapter, the liquor license issued
to its licensee shall automatically terminate and become null and void and the
number of available liquor licenses authorized in the classification (class) of
the terminated license shall automatically be reduced by one.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2710, passed
4-18-11) Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.22 RENEWAL.
   Any licensee may apply to renew his license at the expiration thereof,
provided he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which
such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purposes, and provided
further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed
as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the President and Board of
Trustees of the village from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued
within the village. However, when the number of applications made for a liquor
license, or for any class of license, exceeds the number of licenses permitted
under this chapter, prior licenses shall be given preference over new
applicants provided such prior licenses otherwise qualify for such license.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.23 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   The license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be posted in a prominent
place within the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.24 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   Licenses issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in
the premises described in the application for license. Such location may be
changed only upon the written permit to make such change, issued by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted unless
the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor under the laws of the state and the ordinances of this village.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer’s license for any
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend for not more than 30
days (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-4) or may revoke for cause, any license issued
by him if he determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
“the Liquor Control Act of 1934,” ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, 1-1 et seq., as it now
exists and may hereafter be amended or the provisions of this chapter or any
rule or regulation established by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or
State Liquor Commissioner, which is not inconsistent with law, all in the
manner and as provided in ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.26 UNLAWFUL DENIAL OF USE OF ACCOMMODATIONS AND PRIVILEGES BY AGENTS OR
EMPLOYEES OF LICENSEE.
   No licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall deny or permit his
agents and employees to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the
accommodations, advantagements, facilities, and privileges on any premises in
which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to the
conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike to all
citizens.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
RETAIL SALES
§ 113.35 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPER OPERATION OF BUSINESS.
   The licensee and its associates, members, representatives, agents, officers
and employees, shall at all times be personally responsible for the proper
operation of the business, including compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the observation of all laws and regulations applicable thereto.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.36 HOURS OF SALES.
Note:   The normal hours of operation for a business within the village are 7:
00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. Establishments with operating hours outside of these
normal operating hours must be approved as a special use according to the
regulations of Article 3, Section E of the Zoning Ordinance. (Excerpted from
the Village of Frankfort Zoning Ordinance 2001, Article 6, Section C, Part 2,
paragraph q, Hours of Operation.)
   (A)   No licensee shall keep open or allow his or her place of business to
remain open or sell or offer for sale at retail, or offer to give away on any
licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of 1:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. The sale of alcoholic liquors shall cease immediately at
the aforesaid hour of 1:00 a.m.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in his or her discretion,
further reasonably restrict the above general hours during which any licensee
may keep open or allow his or her place of business to remain open, or sell,
offer for sale or give away any alcoholic liquor on any licensed premises when,
in the Local Liquor Control Commissioner's judgment, a further restriction
would be in the best interest of the public and the village and in furtherance
of the general welfare and safety thereof. Any license so further restricted as
to time shall, when issued, indicate on the face thereof the hours during which
the licensee thereunder may keep open or allow his or her place of business to
remain open as aforesaid.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2545, passed
12-1-08; Am. Ord. 2826, passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 2831, passed 2-19-13) Penalty,
see §
113.99
§ 113.37 CLOSING HOURS FOR LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   No member of the general public shall remain in or upon the licensed
premises after the hour of 1:00 a.m. Should any person be found upon or leaving
the licensed premises after the hour of 1:00 a.m., the village shall have the
right to presume that such person was served alcoholic liquor after the hour of
1:00 a.m. and such presumption may be raised in any court in a proceeding for
violation of the terms of this chapter or at any hearing concerning the
revocation of the license issued to the licensee of the premises in question.
Further, with regard to any license restricted by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner to a closing time different than the general hours set forth in §
113.36 hereof, the above and foregoing provisions of this section shall apply
and shall be construed to mean the closing time indicated on said license which
is so further restricted as to time.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section shall apply to the licensee,
members of his or her family or his or her employees, agents or servants if
found upon or leaving the licensed premises after the hour of 1:00 a.m., nor
shall division (A) of this section apply to premises which have been granted a
Class F-2 or F-3 or F-5 liquor license.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2274, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2826, passed
1-7-13) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.38 PREMISES TO BE KEPT IN SANITARY CONDITION.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.39 CONTAGIOUS DISEASES AMONG EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such diseases to work in or
about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.40 USE OF SLOT MACHINES, PINBALL MACHINES, AND OTHER DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, have, use or permit to be used in any premises
in the village, used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, any slot machine,
pinball machine, video game or other instrument device upon which money is
staked or hazarded or into which money is paid or played upon chance, or upon
the result of the action of which money or other valuable thing is staked, bet,
won or lost.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
2009 S-15
§ 113.41 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT; UNDESIRABLE ELEMENTS OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No live entertainment may be present upon any premises where alcoholic
liquor is sold or offered for sale at retail with the exception that it may be
permitted under Classes A-l, B-l, C, D-l, D-2, E, F, G, H I-1, I-2, I-3, M, and
N provided, however, that the applicant desiring to present live entertainment
at the time of the making of application hereunder for any such class of
license shall disclose on the application therefore, the fact that such
entertainment shall be presented, the type and nature of such entertainment and
shall pay an additional fee which shall be set from time to time by the Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   In the event the Liquor Commissioner shall in his sole discretion
desire to permit live entertainment on such premises, he shall so indicate in
writing and any such license issued shall on the face thereto indicate that
“live entertainment is permitted.” In the event the Liquor Commission shall in
his sole discretion deny such application for live entertainment, he shall so
indicate in writing on the application and the applicant shall be so advised
within a reasonable period of time.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, live entertainment on any premises in
the Frankfort Historical District shall, if permitted, be restricted to the
following days and times:
      (1)   On Wednesdays and Thursdays, live entertainment will be permitted
upon the premises of the licensee until 10:30 p.m. On Friday and Saturday live
entertainment will be permitted until 1:00 a.m.
      (2)   On Sundays, live entertainment will be permitted upon the premises
of the licensee until 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   No live entertainment will be permitted in the Frankfort Historical
District on Mondays and Tuesdays; nor will live entertainment heard from
outside of the premises of the licensee be permitted on Sunday evenings during
presentation of Frankfort’s Concerts-on the-Green.
      (4)   Whenever live entertainment is permitted, the level of noise shall
not exceed 55 decibels prior to 10:30 p.m. and 45 decibels from 10:30 p.m.
until time of closing.
      (5)   All public address systems broadcasting outdoors must be turned off
in conformity with the live entertainment.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 2545, passed
12-1-08; Am. Ord. 3039, passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord. 3063, passed 10-17-16; Am.
Ord. 3126, passed 12-18-17) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 SALES NEAR CHURCHES, SCHOOL AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church, school, other than an institution of higher
learning, hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their spouses or children or any military or naval station, provided that this
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, congregate
elderly housing facility, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been
established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor
to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on
premises within 100 feet of any church or school where such church or school
shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services
or educational programs and not to property boundaries. Nothing in this section
shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a church or private school to sell
at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales are limited to periods when groups
are assembled on the premises solely for the promotion of some common object
other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 3228, passed 9-3-19) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43 SALES IN CERTAIN PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be issued for the purpose of selling or offering for sale
at retail any intoxicating liquor in any dwelling, house, flat or apartment
building, provided that this prohibition shall not apply to congregate elderly
housing facilities.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 3228, passed 9-3-19) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 SALE TO MINORS OR INTOXICATED PERSONS; EXCEPTION.
   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 SEALING AND REMOVAL OF OPEN WINE BOTTLES.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a restaurant licensed
to sell alcoholic liquor in the village may permit a patron to remove one
unsealed and partially consumed bottle of wine for off- premise consumption
provided that the patron has purchased a meal and consumed a portion of the
bottle of wine with the meal on the restaurant premises. A partially consumed
bottle of wine that is so removed from the premises pursuant to this section
shall be securely sealed by the licensee or an agent of the licensee prior to
removal from the premises and placed in a transparent one-time use tamper-proof
bag. The licensee or agent of the licensee shall provide a dated receipt for
the bottle of wine to the patron.
(Ord. 2395, passed 6-18-07) Penalty, see §
113.99
PERSONS 21 YEARS AND UNDER
§ 113.55 DISPLAY OF NOTICE.
   In every tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold
there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which
shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21
   It is unlawful for you to purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age
for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.56 PROHIBITING PERSONS UNDER AGE OF 21 TO REMAIN ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license or his agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under the age
of 21 to be or remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or
situated in the room or place where such licensed premises is located; provided
that this division shall not apply to any person under the age of 21 who is
accompanied by his parent or guardian or to any licensed premises which derives
its principal business from the sale of other commodities or services than the
sale of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee who knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care
should know, that a person under the age of 21 years possesses or is consuming
alcoholic liquor while on the premises shall allow such minor to remain on such
premises.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1177, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 1254, passed
3-6-89; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.57 WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF AGE AND IDENTITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the purpose of preventing violation of this chapter, any licensee
or his agent or employee may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic liquor to any
person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity or of the
fact that he is over the age of 21 years.
   (B)   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to a motor vehicle
operators license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces. Proof that the defendant, licensee or his employees or agent demanded,
was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
forbidden by this chapter is competent evidence and may be considered in any
prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of
any license based thereon.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.58 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age
of 21 years, any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence
of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or furnishes to any
person under the age of 21 years, evidence of age and identification or any
other person is guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any
licensee, his agent or employee written, printed or photostatic evidence of age
and identity which is false, fraudulent or not actually his own, for the
purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring
or attempting to procure serving of any alcoholic liquor or who has in his
possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and identity is guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person under the age of 21 years, who has any alcoholic liquor in
his possession on any street or highway or in any public place open to the
public is guilty of a violation of this chapter. This does not apply to a
person under the age of 21 years making a delivery of alcoholic liquor in
pursuance of the order of his parent or in pursuance of his employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.59 PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his possession. If a licensee
or his agents or employees believes or has reason to believe that the sale or
delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the nonage of the
prospective recipient, he shall before making such sale or delivery demand
presentation of some form of positive identification containing proof of age.
No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card, use the
identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged identification
card or obtain an identification by means of false information. No person shall
purchase, accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation
of this section. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the
age of 21 years is forbidden. Whoever violates provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in a performance of a religious service or ceremony or the consumption
by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parent or parents
of such minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.60 TENDING BAR BY UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to attend any
bar, dispense, draw, pour, mix or sell any alcoholic liquor in any licensed
retail premises. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, officer, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee to allow any person under
the age of 21 to attend any bar, dispense, draw, pour, mix or sell any
alcoholic liquor in the licensed retail premises.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-19-89; Am. Ord. 2822,
passed 12-3-12) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.61 SALE, GIFT OR DELIVERY TO MINOR.
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known by him to be under legal disability or in need of mental
treatment.
   (B)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (C)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase, or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his possession.
(Ord. 1177, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 1254, passed 3-6-89)
§ 113.62 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY A GATHERING INCLUDING MINOR AT
RESIDENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly permit a gathering at a residence which he
occupies of two or more persons where any one or more persons is under 21 years
of age and the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
years of age is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; or
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent or guardian to permit his or her residence
to be used by an invitee of the parents’ child or the guardian’s ward, if the
invitee is under the age of 21, in a manner that constitutes a violation of
this chapter. A parent or guardian is deemed to have permitted his or her
residence to be used in violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly
authorizes, enables or permits such use to occur by failing to control access
to either the residence or the alcoholic liquor maintained in the residence.
(Ord. 1177, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 1254, passed 3-6-89; Am. Ord. 1703, passed
6-1-98) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.63 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any child under
the age of 21 of which he is parent or guardian, to violate any provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1177, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 1254, passed 3-6-89) Penalty, see §
113.99
FALL FESTIVAL
§ 113.75 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Any holder or owner of a Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, Class
G or Class H liquor license may apply for a permit to erect a balustrade
abutting, adjoining or contiguous with the premises operated by the licensee
subject to the following terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.76 APPLICATION FEE.
   An application under this subchapter shall be prepared and submitted by a
licensee as defined in this chapter and accompanied by a fee to be set by the
Board of Trustees, which shall be refunded if the application is denied.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.77 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   Subject to all applicable provisions of this chapter, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall review and approve or deny any application. If
approved, a permit incorporating the terms of this subchapter will be issued to
the licensee.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.78 DURATION.
   The licensee shall only be permitted to occupy the area which a permitted
balustrade during the days the Village Fall Festival is being held or for such
shorter time as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems necessary.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.79 BALUSTRADES; CONSTRUCTION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The licensee, at its sole cost and expense, shall erect, construct and
maintain a balustrade or an area cordoned off from general public use and
access for the sole purpose of providing an area for the public to consume
alcoholic liquors during the Village Fall Festival.
   (B)   All balustrades shall meet all requirements for public safety,
including providing suitable ingress for Police Department, Fire Department and
other public safety personnel.
   (C)   A diagram of the area and its proposed construction and location in
relation to the licensed premises shall accompany the permit.
   (D)   If the balustrade is to be erected or constructed on a sidewalk or
other public way, the licensee shall not damage any public property in
constructing, erecting or maintaining the balustrade and shall further provide
the village with an endorsement for insurance insuring the village for any and
all liability which may be occasioned on the premises in an amount not less
than $500,000/$1,000,000 and also execute an agreement to indemnify and hold
the village harmless from all matters associated with the use of the area
enclosed by the balustrade.
   (E)   If the balustrade is proposed to be constructed on a sidewalk or other
public way, the area within the balustrade shall not exceed the length of the
sidewalk actually abutting the licensed premises times the width of that
sidewalk.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.80 (RESERVED).
§ 113.81 OUTDOOR BEER GARDEN/CAFE CONSTRUCTION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any holder of a Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E or Class H
liquor license may apply to the Liquor Commissioner for a permit to serve
liquor in an outdoor beer garden/cafe adjoining or contiguous to the premises
operated by the licensee subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The owner shall submit a site plan depicting the layout of the outdoor
beer garden/cafe, including ingress, egress and occupant load. Canopies,
screening and/or tents shall meet the flame spread ratings required by the code
and shall be safely secured. Permanent structures shall be designed and
constructed according to applicable village code.
   (B)   Screening, canopies and/or roof structures shall be maintained in
accordance with the 1996 BOCA National Property Maintenance Code. By October 31
of the permitting year, the owner shall remove all fixtures “table, chairs
etc.,” from the outdoor beer garden/cafe area and all screening and/or canopies
shall also be removed.
   (C)   All alcohol must be served by a waitress/waiter.
   (D)   No alcohol to be served before 11:30 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m., except
Friday and Saturday when liquor may be served until 12:00 midnight.
   (E)   The outdoor beer garden/cafe must be closed by 11:00 p.m., except
Friday and Saturday when closing shall be 12:00 midnight. At 12:00 midnight,
all tables and the cafe area must be cleaned by closing.
   (F)   Any Special Events using the outdoor beer garden/cafe or alteration of
business hours will require a Special Permit, which can be obtained from the
village, with concurrence from the Liquor Commissioner.
   (G)   An annual permit fee of $15 is required to operate an outdoor beer
garden/cafe.
   (H)   A Special Event fee of $15 per event is required for use of an outdoor
beer garden/cafe after 11:00 p.m. weekdays and 12:00 midnight Friday and
Saturday. A Special Permit will also be required for any use of outdoor
cooking, (except regular weekend barbecues), group activities such as wedding
parties or any activity deemed by the village as not consistent with the normal
function of an outdoor cafe.
   (I)   No outdoor band or musical equipment is permitted without a Special
Event Permit.
   (J)   The beer garden is to be taken down no later than October 31 of the
year in which the permit is issued.
   (K)   No permit for an outdoor beer garden/cafe shall be issued until each
proposed beer garden/cafe has been inspected and approved for use by the
village.
(Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98; Am. Ord. 1900, passed 6-17-02)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 113.90 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Village President is hereby designated the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and is charged with the administration of this chapter and the
Liquor Control Act, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-2, as the same now exists or may
be hereafter amended, and of such other ordinances and resolutions relating to
alcoholic liquor as may be needed. The Village President may appoint persons to
assist him in the exercise of the power and performances of the duties provided
for such Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.91 RECORDS OF LICENSES TO BE KEPT.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all such licenses issued by him and shall furnish the
Village Clerk, the Village Treasurer and the Chief of Police each with a copy
thereof upon the issuance of any new license and shall notify each of the said
officers, in writing, upon the issuance of any new licenses or revocation of
any old licenses, within 24 hours of its issuance or revocation.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.92 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is hereby given the power to enter or
to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter,
“An act relating to alcoholic liquor,” ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq., or
any rules or regulations adopted by him or by the State Liquor Commissioner
have been or are being violated and at such time to examine the premises of
said licensee in connection therewith.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83)
§ 113.93 HEARINGS BEFORE LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   Any hearing before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is transcribed by a
certified court or shorthand reporter. Any appeal of the decision of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall be based solely on the record from said
hearing and not a de novo review of the case.
(Ord. 1703, passed 6-1-98)
§ 113.98 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club
to sell or offer for sale at retail within the village any alcoholic liquor
without having a retail liquor dealers license, or in violation of the terms of
such license or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, in addition to suspension or revocation of license as
provided in this chapter, be fined not more than $750 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during and on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1105, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1177, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 1254, passed
3-6-89; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
   (B)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies available to the
village under §
113.18(C), any person or entity found to have violated any provision of §
113.18(C) shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750, with each day
of violation constituting a separate offense. (Ord. 2745, passed 10-3-11)
   (C)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies available to the
village under §
113.18(E), any person or entity found to have violated any provision of §
113.18(E) shall be fined not less than $250, not more than $500, with each day
of violation constituting a separate offense. (Ord. 2726, passed 6-20-11)
   (D)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies available to the
village under §
113.20, any person or entity found to have violated any provision of §
113.20 shall be fined not less than $250, not more than $750, with each day of
violation constituting a separate offense. (Ord. 2800, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord.
2932, passed 7-21-14; Am. Ord. 3276, passed 11-16-20)
   (E)   Any business or person found to have violated any provision of §§
113.20.1 or
113.21 shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense and not less
than $500 for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 2710, passed 4-18-11)
CHAPTER 114: PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
Section
   
114.01   Intent
   
114.02   Permit required
   
114.03   Application for permit
   
114.04   Permit fee
   
114.05   Conditions for issuance of permit
   
114.06   Permit required for all sales at resident’s address
   
114.07   Number of sales permitted
   
114.08   Duration of permit
   
114.09   Display of permit
   
114.10   Sale of items to belong to occupant of premises
   
114.11   Garage sale signs
   
114.12   Right of inspection; arrest authority of inspector
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate the term and frequency of a
personal property sale so as not to disturb or disrupt the residential
environment of the area. It is not the intent of this chapter to seek control
of private sales by individuals selling a few of their household or personal
items which are sold at the residence.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person or organization desirous of holding a public auction or a
personal property sale, which includes but is not limited to garage, basement,
yard and porch sale, for the sale or resale of used household, clothing or any
other personal property items which are owned all or in part by the occupants
of the premises, shall prior to such sale obtain a permit from the village.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A village resident shall apply for the permit with the Village Zoning
Enforcement Officer on forms furnished by the village.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.04 PERMIT FEE.
   Each application for a permit shall be submitted with a permit fee to be set
by the Board of Trustees. The application fee covers charges associated with
processing the application to determine if a permit should be issued.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.05 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The village will issue a sale permit only upon proper showing and
finding by the village that all safety and environmental precautions necessary
or convenient for such sale have been met.
   (B)   The applicant shall agree to abide by all conditions imposed by the
village as enumerated in this chapter.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ALL SALES AT RESIDENT’S ADDRESS.
   A permit is required for all sales. Permits are issued to a resident of the
village, which permits the sale at the resident’s address.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.07 NUMBER OF SALES PERMITTED.
   No sale shall be conducted nor will a sale permit be issued within 90 days
from the last permitted sale date on the premises.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits are valid for any two consecutive days between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. No permits will be issued allowing sales during the Labor
Day - Village Fall Festival weekend.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.09 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Permits shall be conspicuously displayed on the sale premises so as to be
seen by the public and village officials and employees. (Ord. 1112, passed 3-
19-84) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 SALE OF ITEMS TO BELONG TO OCCUPANT OF PREMISES.
   The items to be sold must, for the most part, be owned by the occupant of
the sale premises. However, the sale may include property owned by other
participating village residents.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.11 GARAGE SALE SIGNS.
   (A)   Upon issuance of the sale permit the village will furnish the
applicant three garage sale signs. No other signs may be displayed within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Garage sale signs shall not be displayed more than one day prior to
the commencement of the sale and must be removed no later than one day
following the conclusion of the permitted sale.
   (C)   One of the signs shall be displayed at the front lot line on the
premises on which the sale is conducted.
   (D)   No signs shall be placed on village property at the intersections of
U.S. Route 45 and Route 30, U.S. Route 45 and White Street, or White Street and
Nebraska Street. No signs shall be placed in the village flower beds.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 RIGHT OF INSPECTION; ARREST AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR.
   A police officer or any official designated by any village ordinance to make
inspections under the licensing or regulating ordinance or to enforce the same,
shall have the right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a personal
property sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close the
premises from such a sale or arrest any person who violates any provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation or organization violating any
of the provisions of this chapter shall, in addition to revocation of license
as above provided, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during and on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1112, passed 3-19-84; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 115: SOLICITORS, HAWKERS, AND PEDDLERS; CHARITABLE SOLICITATION
Section
Peddlers, Solicitors and Canvassers
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Registration of peddlers and solicitors of books, periodicals and
publications
   
115.04   Application for peddlers solicitors and canvassers
   
115.05   Term of license
   
115.06   Limit of one license per calendar year
   
115.07   Investigation; denial of permit
   
115.08   Fraud
   
115.09   Hours of operation
   
115.10   Notice regulating soliciting, peddling and canvassing
   
115.11   Signs at village limits
   
115.12   Licenses and identification badges
   
115.13   Revocation
   
115.14   No soliciting on a public way
Charitable Solicitation; Tag Days
   
115.25   Definitions
   
115.26   Tag days rules and regulations
   
115.27   Requirements for the charitable organization
   
115.28   Filing of application
   
115.29   Verification of statement concerning receipts and distributions of
money required
   
115.30   Identification; uniform and insignia; coin container
   
115.31   Obstructing traffic while soliciting funds prohibited
   
115.32   Tag day permit required
Charitable Game Events
   
115.40   Registration and application for license
   
115.41   License process
   
115.42   Event license
 
   
115.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING ENTITY. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation who has or
engages peddler, solicitor or canvasser in its behalf.
   CANVASSER. Any person, business entity, firm or corporation, who goes to
residential dwelling units, without prior appointment or pre-arrangement to
meet with persons, firms, or corporations for the purpose of soliciting funds
or donations of property, or for conducting surveys, or for conducting polls or
for obtaining endorsements for any product or service.
   PEDDLER. Any person, business entity, firm or corporation, who goes to
residential dwelling units without prior appointment or prearrangement to at
retail sell, offer for sale, sell and deliver, barter or exchange any goods,
products or services. It shall not include a serviceman who is responding to a
prior call.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or entity who is 16
years of age.
   SOLICITOR. Any person, business entity, firm or corporation, who goes to
residential dwelling units without prior appointment of pre-arrangement with
the customer, to take orders for future delivery at retail of any merchandise,
or other article, or thing, or any service.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No business entity or person shall cause or engage in the business or
activity of a peddler, solicitor, or canvasser within the village without first
obtaining a license therefore as provided in this subchapter; provided that no
such license shall be required for peddlers and solicitors dealing only in
books, periodicals and publications, however, such persons shall be registered
as provided in §
115.03. The fee for such licenses shall be as from time to time established by
the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 REGISTRATION OF PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS OF BOOKS, PERIODICALS AND
PUBLICATIONS.
   No business entity or person shall engage in the business or activity of a
peddler or solicitor of books, periodicals and publications within the village
without first registering with the village police department. Such registration
shall include the name, address, social security and driver’s license numbers
of such person, the name and address of the employer and supervisor of such
person, the name and address of the publisher and the names of the books,
periodicals and publications involved. Such registration shall be valid for a
period of not more than three consecutive days. The times for such activities
are regulated by §
115.09
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 APPLICATION FOR PEDDLERS SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS.
   (A)   An application for a peddler’s, solicitor’s, or canvasser’s license
shall be made by each business entity, as well as each person causing, or
intending to solicit, peddle, or canvass within the village to the village
police department in conformity with the general requirements of this code and
any other ordinances of the village relating to the application for license.
   (B)   The application herein required shall be fully completed and signed
under oath and contain the following information:
      (1)   Business entity application. The application for the business
entity which shall be completed under oath and signed by an officer or
executive shall include:
         (a)   Full name, address, telephone number of the business entity;
         (b)   Number of years in existence;
         (c)   Names, addresses and titles of all officers of the entity;
         (d)   Whether the business entity is a charitable organization and, if
so, whether it is recognized as such by the Internal Revenue Service and the
state;
         (e)   Name, address and telephone numbers of persons representing the
entity who will directly supervise the peddlers, canvassers, or solicitors in
the village;
         (f)   A description of the merchandise, or goods to be peddled, or
offered for sale, or order, or the purpose and nature of the materials to be
canvassed;
         (g)   Whether a license to the business entity has ever been
suspended, or revoked;
          (h)   A written representation by the business entity, that it has
instructed persons conducting the peddling, soliciting, and canvassing on its
behalf not to perform such activities at any residence or business which has a
sign posted in the following or similar words, “No Solicitors,” “No Solicitors,
Peddlers, or Canvassers;”
         (i)   Name, address, telephone, social security and driver’s license
number and the date of birth of all persons who will be conducting the
solicitation, canvassing or peddling on behalf of the business entity in the
village;
         (j)   A written statement which is specifically designated to be
relied upon by the village and its residents that within a month prior to
submitting its application the business entity has personally and fully
conducted an investigation on the background of each person the entity purposes
to conduct the canvas, solicitation, or peddling on its behalf and that each
person is a law abiding person of good moral character and has not been
convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude within ten years from the
date of this application; and
         (k)    Six consecutive days the business entity would like to solicit
in the village:
            1.   1st choice;
            2.   2nd choice;
            3.   3rd choice;
            with no date less than seven days from the date the completed
application is submitted.
      (2)   Application for individual.
         (a)   The application for the person who will peddle, solicit or
canvass shall be completed and signed under oath by the applicant and shall
include:
            1.   The name, address, date of birth, social security and driver’s
license number of the applicant;
            2.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant’s
employer and the name and address of applicant’s supervisor;
            3.   The kind of merchandise, or goods to be peddled, or offered
for sale, or order, or the purpose and nature of the matters to be canvassed;
            4.   The number and description, including make, model and license
plate numbers of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated in the village by
the person in the course of soliciting, canvassing or peddling;
            5.   The name of all cities, villages or towns where applicant has
engaged in peddling, soliciting or canvassing within the state;
            6.   Whether the applicant, or his or her employer, principal or
the entity which is represented by the applicant, has ever had a peddler’s,
solicitor’s, or canvasser’s license revoked and/or been convicted of violating
any statute or ordinance relating to the same;
            7.   Whether applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or crime
of moral turpitude, including fraud, forgery, theft or deceptive practices, and
if so, the case disposition, case number, offense charges, offense convicted of
and date and place of such conviction, and
            8.   An acknowledgment there shall be no canvassing, peddling or
soliciting at any business or residence which has signs posted in the following
or similar words: “No Solicitors,” or “No Solicitors, Peddlers, or Canvassers.”
         (b)   The applicant, if not working in conjunction with a business
entity, shall state the exact specific consecutive dates the applicant desires
to peddle, solicit or canvass, not in excess of three consecutive days, and the
license, if issued, shall be limited to only those dates specified.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued to business entities and persons hereunder shall be a
specified term of consecutive days, not to exceed six consecutive days.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93)
§ 115.06 LIMIT OF ONE LICENSE PER CALENDAR YEAR.
   Not more than one peddler’s, solicitor’s or canvasser’s license shall be
issued to any person, or business entity during any calendar year. Any license
issued under this subchapter shall be non transferable.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93)
§ 115.07 INVESTIGATION; DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a felony
or any offense which involved fraud, forgery, moral turpitude, theft or deceit
within the last ten years.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or canvasser to cheat,
deceive or fraudulently misrepresent, whether through himself or through an
employee or agent, while acting as a peddler, solicitor or canvasser in the
village, or to barter, sell or peddle any goods, merchandise or wares or to
solicit funds, take surveys or polls other than those specified in his
application for a license.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No soliciting, peddling or canvassing shall be permitted before the hour of
10:00 a.m., or after the hour of 8:00 p.m. within the village.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING, PEDDLING AND CANVASSING.
   (A)   The occupant of any premises shall give notice to the licensee of the
determination not to allow any solicitors, peddlers or canvassers in the
following manner; a weatherproof notice, at least three inches by four inches
in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
following or similar words:
   “NO SOLICITORS, OR PEDDLERS OR CANVASSERS ALLOWED”
   (B)   The letters of this notice shall be at least 1/3 inch in height. For
the purpose of uniformity, the notices shall be provided by the Village Clerk
to persons so requesting, at the cost thereof. Such notices so exhibited shall
constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor, peddler, or canvasser of the
determination of the occupant of the residence of the information contained
thereon.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of the subchapter for any business entity or
person, whether licensed or not, to engage in the activities of peddling,
soliciting or canvassing at any residence displaying the aforesaid notice in
conformity with the provisions herein.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11 SIGNS AT VILLAGE LIMITS.
   The Superintendent of Streets is directed to post and maintain appropriate
signs at the limits of the village with the following language:
   “SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND CANVASSERS AND CONTRACTORS MUST BE LICENSED AND
REGISTERED AT THE FRANKFORT MUNICIPAL BUILDING”
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93)
§ 115.12 LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION BADGES.
   A copy of the license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be carried
with the licensee while he or she is engaged in peddling, soliciting or
canvassing within the village.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 REVOCATION.
   Any such license or registration may be revoked by the Village President
because of any violation of this subchapter, or whenever the licensee or
registrant shall cease to possess the qualifications required in this
subchapter for the original license or registration. Upon receipt of
information that the licensee has violated this subchapter or no longer
possesses the requisite qualifications to be licensed hereunder, the Village
President shall immediately revoke the license and give the licensee written
notice by certified mail of such suspension. The notice shall contain a
statement of the facts upon which the Village President has acted in revoking
the permit. The licensee shall have the right to demand a hearing to be held
within five business days of the village’s receipt of the licensee’s demand for
hearing. Upon the filing of such a demand with the Village Clerk, the Village
President shall affix a time and place for hearing. At the hearing the
licensee, and any other interested person, shall have the right to present
evidence as to the facts upon which the Village President based the suspension
of the license, and any other facts which may aid the Village President in
determining whether this subchapter has been violated. If, after such hearing,
the Village President finds that the subchapter has been violated, or the
information set forth in the application has been misrepresented, he shall
within two days after the hearing file with the Village Clerk for public
inspection and serve upon the licensee, and all interested persons
participating in the hearing, a written statement of the facts upon which he
bases such finding and shall immediately revoke the permit. If, after such
hearing the Village President finds that the subchapter has not been violated
or the information has not been misrepresented, he shall within two days after
the hearing give to the licensee a written statement canceling the suspension
of the license.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93)
§ 115.14 NO SOLICITING ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   No person, including any solicitor, hawker, or peddler, shall sell, barter,
give away, offer for sale or gift any item of personal property, or otherwise
engage in any “soliciting” as defined in this chapter, on, along, about, upon,
or within any right-of-way of any street corner, intersection, highway,
roadway, street, alley, or any other public way, unless approved as a
charitable organization Tag Day as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 1816, passed 7-17-00)
CHARITABLE SOLICITATION; TAG DAYS
§ 115.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. As that same term is defined in ILCS Ch. 225, Act
460, § 1, or a not-for-profit organization incorporated pursuant to ILCS Ch.
805, Act 110 § 0.01 and ILCS Ch. 805, Act 110 § 35, or any other organization
that has been granted tax exempt status from the state or the Internal Revenue
Service.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE.  As that same term is defined in 225 ILCS 460/1, and as
that term is construed by the state courts under such statute. For the purpose
of this subchapter, solicitation for a charitable purpose shall include
solicitation for or on behalf of a charitable organization, as that term is
defined herein.
   PERSON.  Any individual, organization,, group, association, partnership,
corporation, trust or any combination of them.
   TAG DAY.  Those days on which it shall be lawful for charitable
organizations to solicit funds for charitable purposes upon the public ways of
the village by means of distributing emblems, selling flowers or tags to people
who have contributed to such funds.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 2874, passed 10-21-13)
§ 115.26 TAG DAYS RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall formulate such reasonable rules
and regulations for Tag Days as it deems necessary for the purpose of carrying
out the provisions of this subchapter and controlling the conduct of any such
tag day.
   (B)   Tag days shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   There shall be only one charitable organization tag day conducted
on any given day.
      (2)   Tag days are governed by the Village Board. There shall be only 18
tag permits issued per calendar year. Applications must be submitted to the
office of the Village President, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. 2955,
passed 12-1-14)
§ 115.27 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
   No charitable organization shall conduct, participate, engage or share in
the proceeds of any tag day until it conforms to the following requirements:
   (A)   The charitable organization fully complies with all rules and
regulations established in “An act to regulate solicitation and collection of
funds for charitable purposes, providing violation thereof, in making
appropriation therefore” as it now exists or may hereafter be amended (ILCS Ch.
225, Act 460, §§ 1 et seq.) and that by making an application for tag day such
charitable organization specifically acknowledges and represents that it has
fully complied with the act.
   (B)   The charitable organization has actually engaged in a charitable
purpose for not less than one year prior to the filing of its application. This
division does not apply to religious corporations, trusts or organizations
established for religious purposes or to other religious agencies or
organizations which serve religion by the preservation or religious rights or
freedom from prosecution or prejudice by fostering religion.
   (C)   The charitable organization shall be from the village or affiliated
with a local chapter or group.
   (D)   The charitable organization shall agree to cooperate and shall
cooperate with all of the charitable organizations in promoting efficiency of
amounts and charitable work with a view to prevent duplication of effort and
waste of funds collected.
   (E) If applicable, the charitable organization may be required to submit to
the Village Board of Trustees in connection with any application for tag days a
statement showing its receipts and disbursements for one year immediately
preceding its application and that any application shall be verified by an
officer of the charitable organization.
   (F)   It shall not employ paid solicitors in connection with the tag day.
All solicitors shall be 18 years of age or more, unless accompanied by an adult
21 years of age or greater; however, no solicitor on a roadway shall be less
than 16 years of age.
   (G)   In connection with its application for tag day, the charitable
organization shall submit a certificate of insurance in the amount of not less
than $1,000,000 per claim and $2,000,000 per occurrence, indemnifying, and
holding the village harmless for negligent acts of the organization’s
solicitors resulting in injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent and naming the village as additionally insured.
   (H)   In the event that any charitable organization is unable to obtain a
permit to solicit in the village for the purpose of collecting tag day
revenues, the affected charitable organization may appeal the village’s
determination to request their tag day application. Appeal must be made to the
Village President within five days of formal written rejection of any tag day
application. The ruling of the Village President is final and no further
redress will be available.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. 2874,
passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 2955, passed 12-1-14)
§ 115.28 FILING OF APPLICATION.
   Applications shall include the name, address and local telephone number of
the applying organization and the name of the local contact person.
Applications should be submitted to the Office of the Village at least 30 days
prior to the day of the proposed tag day. No more than one tag day permit shall
be issued for any given day. If more than one application is received for the
same day, the Village President or designee shall give preference to an
organization based in or having more significant contacts with the village.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. 2955,
passed 12-1-14)
§ 115.29 VERIFICATION OF STATEMENT CONCERNING RECEIPTS AND DISTRIBUTIONS OF
MONEY REQUIRED.
   Within 60 days after the date of any tag day such charitable organization
may be required to file a statement with the village of all receipts and
distributions of money derived from said tag day with such statement to be
verified by an officer of such charitable organization.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 2955, passed 12-1-14)
§ 115.30 IDENTIFICATION; UNIFORM AND INSIGNIA; COIN CONTAINER.
   (A)   Every person who solicits funds on behalf of such charitable
organization on such tag day shall wear a uniform or article of clothing which
by its nature or design informs the general public of the identity of the
organization soliciting the funds or shall wear or carry such emblem, button,
insignia or sign that fully and completely informs the public identity of such
organization. Each solicitor must wear brightly colored, highly reflective
outer clothing. In addition, the name of the charitable organization should be
clearly marked on the container used to collect coins or currency.
   (B)   All solicitors are encouraged to wear safety vests that are in
accordance with Illinois Department of Transportation standards.
   (C)   Solicitation organizations shall be responsible for cleaning the area
when finished.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. 2874,
passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 2955, passed 12-1-14) Penalty §
115.99
§ 115.31 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC WHILE SOLICITING FUNDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person soliciting funds on behalf of any organization shall
willfully or unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay or willfully or
unnecessarily attempt to hinder, obstruct or delay any other person in the
lawful driving or traveling along or upon any street, throughway or any
pedestrian of any public way within the village.
   (B)   No solicitation shall occur on roadways or intersections with posted
speed limits of greater than 35 mph.
   (C)   Solicitation is allowed only at Village of Frankfort Police Department
approved locations. Solicitation at the approved location shall occur only at
intersections. All permitted intersections must have stop signs for all
directions. No solicitation will be permitted at signal-controlled
intersections. This list will be furnished to all applicants upon request of
application for permit.
   (D)   Permits shall only apply to village roadways. Permission is not
authorized, granted, nor implied for state or county roadways.
   (E)   The village encourages solicitation to be off the traveled roadway. If
soliciting on the roadway, traffic shall already be stopped before solicitation
may initiate and shall immediately cease when traffic is moving. The use of
attention getting devices, flagmen or traffic control devices is prohibited.
   (F)   Organizations are encouraged to post temporary, breakaway style signs
500 feet prior to solicitation area indicating “Charitable Organization 500 Ft
Ahead”; the board should indicate the name of the organization.
   (G)   Solicitation shall be in accordance with the hours granted by permit
and will only be allowed during daylight hours. State, county or local law
enforcement officers or representatives of the Department of Transportation may
suspend or revoke solicitation operations at any time if any condition of the
permit is violated or if, in the judgment of law enforcement officers or at the
village’s sole discretion, due to weather, if traffic is being impeded or
delayed or the public safety is at risk.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 2874, passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 2955,
passed 12-1-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.32 TAG DAY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit funds or offer merchandise for sale in the public
way without a tag day permit.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
CHARITABLE GAME EVENTS
§ 115.40 REGISTRATION AND APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   At least 35 days prior to the scheduled date of the event, any not-
for-profit charitable organization proposing to conduct an event under the
Charitable Games Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq., shall file with the
Village of Frankfort Police Department a fully completed copy of its State of
Illinois Department of Revenue Application to conduct charitable games file-
stamped by the State of Illinois and as necessary supplemented to include the
following information and submittals:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number, email address of the charitable
organization conducting the charitable game event;
      (2)   The name, address, home, business and cell phone numbers and email
address of the contact person for the charitable organization who is
principally responsible for the event;
      (3)   A copy of the application filed by the charitable organization with
the State of Illinois under ILCA Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (4)   A copy of the license issued by the State of Illinois authorizing a
charitable games event for the planned date of the event;
      (5)   The date of the event;
      (6)   The name, address and phone number of the venue where the event
will be held, the time the event will commence and conclude;
      (7)   Information concerning event security;
      (8)   Information concerning traffic control and vehicular parking; and
      (9)   Acknowledgment that the charitable organization will fully comply
with all applicable requirements under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq., the
Village of Frankfort liquor control ordinances and all other applicable laws
and ordinances.
   (B)   These submittals will constitute the charitable organization's Village
of Frankfort event registration and license application.
(Ord. 2696, passed 2-22-11) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.41 LICENSE PROCESS.
   (A)   Within ten business days from submittal, the village shall review and
determine if the application is compete and that security, traffic control and
vehicular parking is adequate for the event. Upon such determination the
village shall:
      (1)   Issue the license; or
      (2)   If the application is incomplete or inadequate and after
consultation with the applicant and an opportunity to correct the deficiencies,
deny the license and specify the reason(s) for denial.
   (B)   If a license is denied, the applicant has the right, within five
business days of written notice of the declination, to file a written appeal of
the denial to the Village Board, who will make a formal determination after the
applicant has been afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the Village
Administrator and received a summary of the hearing.
(Ord. 2696, passed 2-22-11) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.42 EVENT LICENSE.
   In addition to complying with all other requirements imposed by law, no not-
for-profit charitable organization shall conduct a charitable games event
subject to the requirements of ILCS Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq. without a
license issued by the Village of Frankfort.
(Ord. 2696, passed 2-22-11) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, business entity, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of §§
115.02 through
115.13 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each violation,
and each day such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1412, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
   (B)   Any business or person found to have violated any provision of §§
115.40 through
115.42 shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense and not less
than $500 for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 2696, passed 2-22-11)
CHAPTER 116: SEXUAL CONDUCT IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Underwear modeling
   
116.03   Prohibited contact
   
116.04   Revocation or suspension hearing
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY. Exposure of any of the following parts of the human body to any
person: male or female genital, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleavage,
female breasts below the top of the areola or the employment of any device or
covering which is intended to give the impression of or stimulate such parts of
the male or female anatomy.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Any conduct by a person intended to induce any other person
or engage in any act of sexual contact, including sexual intercourse, oral or
anal intercourse or masturbation.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. The touching of the female breasts, male or female genitals,
anus or anal cleavage, by any person whether male or female.
   UNDERWEAR. Any article or item of clothing designed to be worn by a male or
female as an undergarment, including, but not limited to, lingerie, underpants,
teddies, g-strings, panties, brassieres, bustiers, bikinis and swim wear.
(Ord. 1485, passed 12-5-94)
§ 116.02 UNDERWEAR MODELING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation, joint venture
or partnership, to model underwear in any business establishment or to own or
operate a business establishment where underwear is modeled or worn without any
covering by exterior clothing. This prohibition shall not apply to clothing
stores, boutiques, department stores and such other establishments whose
primary business purpose is the wholesale or retail sale of clothing apparel.
(Ord. 1485, passed 12-5-94) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 PROHIBITED CONTACT.
   No employee, agent, independent contractor or patron shall appear nude in
any business establishment. No employee, agent, independent contractor or
patron shall participate in any sexual contact in any business establishment.
No employee, agent, independent contractor or patron shall engage in any sexual
conduct within any business establishment. It shall be unlawful for any manager
of any business establishment to allow any nudity, sexual conduct or sexual
contact to occur within any business establishment.
(Ord. 1485, passed 12-5-94) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION HEARING.
   (A)   When the Village President becomes aware of any violation of this
chapter, he or she may call a hearing to determine whether the license issued
to a particular establishment should be revoked or suspended. If a hearing is
called the Village President will act as a hearing officer and the person named
as the owner or manager of the establishment on the license application form
shall be notified by certified mail of the date of the hearing and the nature
of the charges lodged against the establishment, its agents or employees, which
constitute the violations of this chapter. The hearing shall not occur less
than seven days nor more than 21 days after service of the notice upon the
owner or the manager of the establishment. At that hearing the village, through
its Village Attorney or Village Prosecutor, and the owner or the manager of the
establishment may present evidence relevant to the question as to whether a
violation did occur. Evidence shall be presented as provided by law. If the
village proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the violation took place
as charged, the Village President shall determine whether the license should be
suspended or revoked. If suspension or revocation is ordered, it shall begin
immediately upon notification to the owner or manager of the establishment.
Such notice shall be given within seven days after a hearing has been
completed.
   (B)   If the Village President suspends or revokes the license, the licensee
may file in the Circuit Court of Will County for an administrative review of
that decision as provided for in the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
   (C)   If the license is revoked, the licensee shall not be eligible to apply
for a license to perform the same business activity at the establishment until
the next license year.
(Ord. 1485, passed 12-5-94)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense and shall
be subject to revocation or suspension of the business license for that
establishment as provided for in §
116.04. Each separate act which can constitute a violation of this chapter
shall be deemed to be a separate act for the purpose of imposing a fine or
penalty under this provision.
(Ord. 1485, passed 12-5-94; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 117: LONG-TERM CARE FACILITIES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   License application and procedures
   
117.04   Inspections
   
117.05   Notice to the state
   
117.06   Security requirements
   
117.07   Persons prohibited from residing or working in facilities
   
117.08   State law
   
117.09   Suspension and revocation
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions contained in the Nursing
Home Care Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 45 §§ 1-101 et seq.) shall apply unless the
context otherwise requires.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No facility shall operate without a State of Illinois license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to establish, operate or maintain a long-term
care facility without a valid long-term care facility license from the Village.
The village shall use the same licensing classifications as the State, and a
facility may not be licensed for a different classification by the village than
by the State.
   (C)   Village licenses shall be renewed annually and shall be valid for a
period of 12 months from the date of issuance. Applications for renewal must be
submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration date of the existing
license.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each long term care facility applicant shall submit a completed
application form and such information as required by the Village Clerk. (See
Appendix A.) The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the facility for which a license is sought.
      (3)   A full and complete copy of the application for licensure filed
with the Illinois Department of Public Health, including all attachments and
required submittals.
      (4)   A copy of the license issued for the facility by the Illinois
Department of Public Health.
      (5)   A census of current facility employees by number, experience and
training.
      (6)   A census of current residents by age, diagnoses and treatment with
psychoactive medications.
      (7)   Such other information as the village may deem necessary or
prudent.
   (B)   All applications shall be accompanied by a current valid license
issued by the Illinois Department of Public Health, any management agreements
for the operation of the facility and copies of any Medicare/Medicaid
certifications. A license fee shall be submitted in the amount of $500. To
assure its application is continuously updated, current and correct, the
applicant shall file a written supplement to its application within seven days
of any of the following events:
      (1)   Any change in ownership, management or administrator.
      (2)   Any action by the State of Illinois which could result in the
limitation, suspension, or revocation of its licensing.
      (3)   Any reduction by more than 5% in any portion of the applicant's
employee census.
      (4)   Any change by more than 5% in any portion of the applicant's
resident census.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05)
§ 117.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before a license is issued or renewed by the village, and without
prior notice, the facility shall be inspected by authorized village personnel
to determine that it is in compliance with the ordinances of the village, the
provisions of the Nursing Home Care Act and any rules or regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   Authorized village personnel shall have the right at any time, without
prior notice, to visit and inspect the premises and personnel of any facility
for the purpose of determining whether the facility is in compliance with the
ordinances of the village, the provisions of the Nursing Home Care Act and any
rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. In determining whether to make
such an inspection, the Village shall consider one or more of the following:
      (1)   Previous inspection reports;
      (2)   The facility's history of compliance with standards, rules and
regulations promulgated under the Nursing Home Care Act and correction of
violations, penalties or other enforcement actions;
      (3)   The number and severity of complaints received about the facility;
      (4)   Any allegations of resident abuse or neglect;
      (5)   Weather conditions;
      (6)   Health emergencies;
      (7)   Other reasonable belief that deficiencies exist.
   (C)   A copy of each inspection report shall be sent to the facility and the
Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05)
§ 117.05 NOTICE TO THE STATE.
   Within ten days of the issuance, denial, suspension or revocation of a
license, the village shall notify the Illinois Department of Public Health of
the issuance or denial. If a license is issued, the notice shall include the
facility name, address, the date of issuance and the number of beds by level of
care. If a license is denied, suspended or revoked, the notice shall indicate
the reason therefor and the current status of the license application.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05)
§ 117.06 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The facility and its administrator shall maintain a log book which
shall be used for all residents leaving the facility. Before a resident leaves
the facility, a staff member shall legibly enter the date, the name of the
resident, the time of leaving and, if provided by the resident, the destination
and the anticipated time of return. Upon the resident's return to the facility,
a staff member shall enter the time of return in the log book. All log books
shall be kept, maintained and made available for inspection for at least one
year from the date of the final entry.
   (B)   The registration desk and each exterior door of any long term care
facility shall be equipped with an independent, continuously recording video
camera which shall be monitored by the staff for resident safety and facility
security and so that a resident shall not leave the facility as provided in
this chapter. All video recordings shall be kept, maintained and made available
for inspection for at least 30 days from the date of recording.
   (C)   All exterior doors shall be equipped with a signal that will alert the
facility staff if a resident leaves the building. Any exterior door that is
supervised by a staff member may have a disconnect device for the signal during
such time as the door is actually supervised. If an exterior door is supervised
by a staff member 24 hours a day, no signal is required.
   (D)   Prior to issuance or renewal of a license, each applicant must submit
an emergency life safety plan to the Village of Frankfort Police Department and
the Frankfort Fire Protection District.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM RESIDING OR WORKING IN FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any person required to register as a sex offender or sexual predator
under the provisions of the Sex Offender Registration Act (ILCS Ch. 730, Act
150 §§ 1 et seq.) is prohibited from residing in or being employed by a
facility within the village. The facility and its administrator may not admit
or allow any person who is or is required to be registered as a sex offender or
sexual predator (regardless of the address where registered) on the Sex
Offender Registry maintained by the Illinois State Police to reside or remain
overnight in the facility or to be employed by the facility. Each facility must
conduct a search of the Sex Offender Registry for each person seeking admission
to or employment with the facility, before the person is admitted or hired, in
order to determine whether the person is a registered sex offender or sexual
predator. Each facility must have in its possession evidence demonstrating that
such a search has been made before allowing a person to be admitted as a
resident or hired as an employee. The facility must notify the village within
48 hours of identifying a prospective resident or employee as a sex offender or
sexual predator on the Sex Offender Registry. When the facility determines upon
information or belief that a person residing or employed therein is a sex
offender or sexual predator who is required to be registered but has failed to
do so, the facility shall immediately notify the Frankfort Police Department of
its suspicion.
   (B)   No person may reside in or be employed by a facility within the
village if less than ten years have passed since he or she was convicted of or
released from confinement for (i) a significant crime against a person or
persons, including but not limited to assault or aggravated assault, battery or
aggravated battery, deviate sexual assault, incest or aggravated incest,
indecent liberties with a child, kidnapping or aggravated kidnapping, murder,
rape or sale of narcotic drugs, (ii) a significant crime against property,
including but not limited to arson, burglary, robbery or, if a penitentiary
sentence could have been imposed, theft or (iii) a crime involving dishonesty
or false statement. The facility and its administrator may not admit or allow
any person who has been convicted of or released from confinement for such
crimes to reside or remain overnight in the facility or to be employed by the
facility if less than ten years have passed since the date of conviction or
release. Each facility must conduct a criminal background check for each person
seeking admission to or employment with the facility, before the person is
admitted or hired, in order to determine whether the person has been convicted
of or released from confinement for such a crime or crimes.
   (C)   To ensure that facilities are conducting Sex Offender Registry
searches and criminal background checks, the village shall, upon 72 hours'
advance notice, visit each facility semi-annually for the purpose of auditing
such reports.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.08 STATE LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a facility in violation
of any provision of the Nursing Home Care Act.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a facility in violation
of any provision of any rule or regulation promulgated by the Illinois
Department of Public Health pursuant to the Nursing Home Care Act.
   (C)   In the event that a license issued by the State of Illinois for a
facility is revoked, suspended or not in effect, such fact shall be grounds for
the Village President to take similar action with respect to any village
license.
(Ord. 2245, passed 12-5-05) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to and not in lieu of any penalty or relief available at
equity, any facility that violates any federal, state or local law, rule or
regulation shall be subject to the suspension or revocation of its village
license. The Village Administrator or his or her designee may seek the
suspension or revocation of the license by filing charges with the Village
President alleging a violation of the aforementioned provisions.
   (B)   Before any suspension or revocation order shall be issued, the village
shall notify the facility of the specific charges against it and of its right
to a hearing before a hearing officer appointed by the Village President.
Notice shall be served upon the facility and its administrator at least seven
days prior to the hearing date by first class or express mail, overnight
carrier or personal service at the address contained in the facility
application. At the hearing, the facility may be represented by counsel, cross-
examine witnesses called by the charging party and present documentary evidence
and witnesses. The charging party shall present sufficient evidence to prove by
a preponderance of the evidence that a violation of the aforementioned
provisions occurred. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply to hearings under this section. The record of each
hearing shall include (i) a record of the testimony presented at the hearing,
which may be by tape recording or other appropriate means; (ii) any document
presented at the hearing; and (iii) a copy of the written notice of hearing
that was served.
   (C)   Following review and consideration of the record, the corporate
authorities shall issue in writing a determination as to whether a violation
occurred. If a violation is found, the corporate authorities may suspend the
license for a period not to exceed 30 days or revoke the license.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to violate any provision of this chapter, any
rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, any provision of the Nursing Home
Care Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. Notice and
correction of violations shall be consistent with the provisions of the Nursing
Home Care Act.
   (B)   Any person or facility that violates any provision of this Chapter,
any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, the Nursing Home Care Act or any
rule or regulation promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a lawsuit seeking
an injunction and/or a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $750 per
violation. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. The facility and its administrator shall be jointly and
severally liable for any and all violations.
(Ord. 2246, passed 12-5-05)
Appendix A
   APPLICATION FOR A LONG-TERM CARE FACILITY LICENSE IN THE VILLAGE OF
FRANKFORT
Click for a printer-friendly PDF version of Appendix_A
SECTION A - GENERAL FACILITY INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                   
Complete Name of Facility:
                                                                  
Prior Name(s):
                                                                  
Street Address:
                                                                  
City, State, ZIP:
                                                                  
Telephone:                                                                  
Fax:                                                                  
Email:                                                                  
Has the ownership of this facility changed within the past year?
[Circle one]    YES    NO
Contact Person for this Application:
                                                                  
Assumed Name(s):
                                                                  
Street Address:
                                                                  
City, State, ZIP:
                                                                  
Telephone:                                                                  
Fax:                                                                  
Email:                                                                  
Capacity and Level of Care:
Skilled Nursing   Capacity                                                   
Persons Under 22 Years of
Age   Capacity                                                   
Intermediate Care   Capacity                                                   
Intermediate Care for the
Developmentally
Disabled   Capacity                                                   
Sheltered Care   Capacity                                                   
Community Living   Capacity                                                   
SECTION B - INFORMATION REGARDING CAPACITY AND LEVEL OF CARE
                                                                                                                                  
   Part 1 - Employee Census
Indicate the number of employees falling under the following categories:
Employee       40 or more 30 - 39 hrs./ 20 -29 hrs./ 10 - 19 hrs./ Less than 10
Classification hrs./wk.   wk.           wk.          wk.           hrs./wk.
Physicians
LPNs
RNs
CNAs
Physical or
occupational
therapists
Other licensed
health or
medical
personnel
(list on lines
below)
All employees
 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
   Part 2 - Resident Census
Indicate the number of employees falling under the following categories:
      Total Number of Residents:            _____
      Age:
         21 or younger:               _____
         22 - 30:                  _____
         31 - 40:                  _____
         41 - 50:                  _____
         51 - 60:                  _____
         61 - 70:                  _____
         71 - 80:                   _____
         81 - 90:                   _____
         91 - 100:                  _____
         101 or older:               _____
      Diagnoses:
      a.   Mental disability or illness:         
            Mental retardation:            _____
            Documented signs and
             symptoms of depression:      _____
            Dementia:               _____
            Documented psychiatric diagnosis
             other than depression or
             dementia:               _____
            Behavioral symptoms:         _____
            Of those with behavioral symptoms,
             the total number receiving a
             behavioral management program:   _____
            Receiving health rehabilitative
             services for MI/MR         _____
      b.   Physical disability or illness
          other than advanced age:         _____
      c.   Substance abuse:               _____
            Alcohol:               _____
            Illegal drugs:               _____
             Depressants:            _____
             Hallucinogens:            _____
             Narcotics:               _____
             Stimulants:               _____
            Prescription drugs:            _____
            Other:                  _____
   Receiving Psychoactive Medication:
      Any variety:                  _____
      Antipsychotic:               _____
      Antianxiety:                  _____
      Antidepressant:               _____
      Hypnotic:                  _____
SECTION C - ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, SUBMISSIONS AND DECLARATIONS
                                                                                                                                  
   Part 1 - Acknowledgments
Authorized village personnel must conduct an unannounced inspection of the
facility prior to issuance or renewal of a license for the purpose of
determining whether the facility is in compliance with the ordinances of the
village, the provisions of the Nursing Home Care Act and any other rules or
regulations promulgated thereunder. After a license has been issued, authorized
village personnel may, without prior notice, visit and inspect the premises and
personnel of any facility for the purpose of assessing said compliance.
Authorized village personnel shall also, with at least 72 hours’ advance
notice, conduct semi-annual audits of Sex Offender Registry searches and
criminal background checks. Refusal to permit an inspection or audit shall be
grounds for denial of a license application or revocation of an existing
license.
   Part 2 - Submissions
Each applicant must submit the following prior to issuance or renewal of a
license:
   1.   A full and complete copy of the most recent application for licensure
filed with the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH), including all
attachments and required submittals. If any information requested in the IDPH
application has changed since the time of filing, the applicant must also
submit a written supplement to the village.
   2.   A copy of the most recent license granted for the facility by the IDPH.
If an applicant has not yet received a license from the IDPH, its application
will be deemed incomplete until such license is granted.
   3.   A license fee in the amount of $500.00.
Each applicant must also have submitted a copy of its most recent emergency
life safety plan to the Village of Frankfort Police Department and the
Frankfort Fire Protection District.
   Date(s) of submission:   _______________________
   Last revised:      _______________________
Each applicant must provide the village with a written supplement to this
application and/or the IDPH application within 7 days of any of the following
events:
   1.   Any change in ownership, management or administrator.
   2.   Any action by the State of Illinois which could result in the
limitation, suspension or revocation of its licensing.
   3.   Any reduction by more than 5% in the employee census.
   4.   Any change by more than 5% in the resident census.
   Part 3 - Declarations
I certify, under penalty of perjury, that I am authorized to sign this
application on behalf of the operator/licensee, that I have fully reviewed this
entire application (including attachments, accompanying documents and
acknowledgments) and that the information is true, correct and complete. If any
information in this application is untrue, incorrect or incomplete, I
understand that, in addition to pursuing any penalties provided by law, the
village may reject this application or, if a license has already been granted,
suspend or revoke said license.
Name of Operator/Licensee:      _______________________________________
Signature of Authorized Agent:   _______________________________________
   Printed Name:         _______________________________________
   Title:               _______________________________________
Date:               _______________________________________
Subscribed and sworn to before me
this _____ day of ___________________________, 20____.
_____________________________
Notary Public
Notary Seal:
CHAPTER 118: CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
Cable and Video Service Provider Fee and PEG Access Support Fee
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Cable/video service provider fee imposed
   
118.03   PEG access support fee imposed
   
118.04   Applicable principles
   
118.05   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
118.06   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
118.07   Late fees/payments
Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
   
118.20   Customer Service and Privacy Protection Law
   
118.21   Enforcement
   
118.22   Customer credits
 
   
118.99   Penalty
CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including without
limitation cash, credits, property and all in-kind contributions received by
the holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable
service or video service within the holder’s cable service or video service
area within the village.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including without limitation pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges.
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including without limitation, activation, installation and
repair charges.
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including without limitation service order and service
termination charges.
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments.
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to division (1)(i) of
this definition.
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-
801(b).
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(l)(vi).
         (b)   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including without limitation revenue received from telecommunication services,
information services or the provision of directory or internet advertising,
including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and electronic
publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to non-cable service
or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and records and
records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules,
regulations, standards or orders.
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers, to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) with respect to the service.
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes.
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of GROSS REVENUES to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 21-401.
   PEG. Public, educational and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE. The amount paid under this subchapter and ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE. The provision of “cable service” or “video service” to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this subchapter and ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities  located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d), or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services offered
over the public internet.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.02 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues, or the same fee paid to the village by an incumbent
cable operator providing cable service.
   (C)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least
ten days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder’s liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt a copy
of Ordinance No. 2478 by the holder. A copy of Ordinance No. 2478 shall be sent
by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the holder’s application
notice sent pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)
with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under division (B)
above.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.03 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   PEG fee imposed. A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to §
118.02.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be 1% of the holder’s gross revenues or, if greater, the percentage of
gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village or its
designee for PEG access support in the village.
   (C)   Payment. The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the
village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The
holder’s liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in §
118.02(D).
   (D)   Payment due. The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (E)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §21 -301(c)
shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG
access that would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had
it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an
incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited
against the fees that that operator owes under division (B) above.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.04 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this subchapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.05 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including without
limitation any tax that is or may later be required to be paid by or through
the holder with respect to cable service or video service. A state-issued
authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to
payment of the village’s simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any
other tax as it applies to any telephone service provided by the holder. A
state-issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with
respect to payment of the local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or
charges.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.06 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 45, §§ 1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as
an accord that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the municipality’s submission of an invoice for the
sum.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.07 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of
Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
§ 118.20 CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW.
   (A)   Adoption. The regulations of ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501 are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers
offering services within the village’s boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments. Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law that becomes effective after the effective date of this subchapter shall be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable
or video providers offering services within the municipality’s boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this subchapter by reference
without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Protection Law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.22 CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of ILCS Ch. 220, Act
5, § 22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next
billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the
violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits
and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   The village, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501(r)(l), does hereby
provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable and
Video Protection Law by cable or video providers in addition to the penalties
provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively
neutral basis and shall not exceed $750 for each day of the material breach,
and shall not exceed $25,000 for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, MATERIAL BREACH means any substantial
failure of a cable or video provider to comply with service quality and other
standards specified in any provision of the law.
   (B)   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
   (C)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (B).
(Ord. 2478, passed 6-16-08)
CHAPTER 119: TOBACCO
Section
   
119.01   Scope
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   License required
   
119.03.1   License notification requirements
   
119.04   Term of license; proration of fee
   
119.05   Application
   
119.06   Restrictions on issuance of license
   
119.06.1   Classification of licenses; fees
   
119.06.2   Limitation on number of licenses
   
119.07   Enforcement
   
119.08   Sales by or to minors prohibited
   
119.09   Age verification training required
   
119.10   Purchase by minors prohibited
   
119.11   Tobacco samples
   
119.12   Sales of tobacco removed from manufacturer's packaging prohibited
   
119.13   Vending machines
   
119.14   Signs
   
119.15   Responsibility of licensees
   
119.16   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
119.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Smoking in public places, see
Ch. 138
   Smoking on public conveyances, see §
132.03
§ 119.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the village shall be protected by regulation
of the sale of tobacco products.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY TOBACCO SALES. A retail establishment that derives less than 30%
of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs, and
cigars, cigarettes, pipes and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and
related smoking accessories, including electronic cigarettes, personal
vaporizers, and electronic nicotine delivery systems, and in which the sale of
other non-tobacco-related products is the primary function.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS. A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. Examples include but are not limited to:
electronic cigarettes, personal vaporizers, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, liquid nicotine and all other vapor products. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE
PRODUCTS excludes cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco products.
   BUSINESS. Any individual or person, as defined herein, owning or operating
an enterprise that offers to sell, displays, sells, or gives any tobacco
products to any person.
   PERSON. An individual, and for the purposes of this chapter, the term PERSON
also includes any and all proprietorships, partnerships, corporations,
associations, or other legal entity.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Tobacco in all its forms, including but not limited to:
cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, periques, granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco, snuff or snuff flour, cavendish,
plug and twist tobacco, fine-cut and other chewing tobaccos, shorts, refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweeping of tobacco, and all other kinds and
forms of tobacco prepared in such manner so as to be suitable for snuff,
chewing, smoking, and/or otherwise ingested to any degree by any means, and
tobacco purchased or offered for sale for the manufacture of cigarettes, and
any paraphernalia designated, designed for, or that could be used, or is
intended to be used, for the ingestion of tobacco to any degree, whether by
inhalation or other means.
   TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than 30% of its
gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs, and cigars,
cigarettes, pipes and other smoking devices for burning tobacco, alternative
nicotine products, and related smoking accessories, including electronic
cigarettes, personal vaporizers, and electronic nicotine delivery systems, and
in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 2956, passed
12-1-14; Am. Ord. 3006, passed 12-21-15)
§ 119.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any business selling, offering for sale, or otherwise providing or
giving away tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products in the village will be
required to hold and maintain a valid Village of Frankfort Tobacco License, in
addition to any other license(s) that may also be required.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each point of sale.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 3006, passed
12-21-15) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.03.1 LICENSE NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The tobacco licensee shall immediately notify the Village Clerk and the
Village Administrator in writing, by either personal service or by certified
U.S. Mail (return receipt requested), separately addressed to each at the
Village of Frankfort Administrative Center, in the event of any of the
following:
   (A)   The cessation of a business licensed under this chapter; or
   (B)   The cessation of the sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products by a
business licensed under this chapter: or
   (C)   The sale, transfer, assignment or alienation of any interest in a
business licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.04 TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this chapter for a period of less
than one calendar year, unless the application is made subsequent to the first
day of any calendar year, in which case the license shall be issued for the
remaining period of the year. No license shall be issued for a period of more
than one year. Unless otherwise provided by law, all licenses issued hereunder
shall be valid from January 1 or the date of issuance, whichever comes later,
to December 31 of each year.
   (B)   For all licenses issued and in effect on or before June 30 of each
year, the full fee shall be paid. For all licenses issued on or after July 1 of
each year, the fee shall be 50% of the annual fee as hereinbefore established.
All license fees shall be paid at the time the application.
   (C)   A tobacco license issued to its licensee shall automatically terminate
and become null and void, and the number of available tobacco licenses
authorized in the classification (class) of the terminated license shall
automatically be reduced by one, upon any of the following:
      (1)   Closing or otherwise ceasing to do business; or
      (2)   Discontinuing or ceasing the sale of tobacco products: or
      (3)   Upon the sale, transfer or any other alienation of any interest of
any business licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 3184, passed
12-17-18)
§ 119.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for a license under this chapter shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk on a form provided for that purpose, accompanied
by the applicable license fee.
   (B)   Each application shall be made at least 30 days before it is requested
to be issued, in order to allow a period for a proper examination and
investigation into whether the license should not be granted pursuant to the
terms of this chapter.
   (C)   The application fee for a Tobacco License shall be $100.
   (D)   Each application shall be accompanied by proof of completion by the
applicant, as well as anyone whom applicant believes is or will be selling,
offering for sale, or otherwise providing or giving away tobacco products in
connection with the license, of a state-certified training program such as
T.I.P.S. or BASSETT, or a similar village pre-approved training program
relating to the laws requiring verification of a consumer's age and detection
of false identifications.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.06 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   No Tobacco License shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village, unless such person
shall appoint a registered agent in the county where the business is located
for the purpose of receiving a summons, mail and notices; provided that such
registered agent shall be a person who would be eligible to receive a license
hereunder.
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   An applicant who has previously had a tobacco, liquor, or other type
of business license revoked for cause, or a partnership in which a partner has
previously had a tobacco, liquor, or other type of business license revoked for
cause, or any other type of business entity in which an officer, director,
manager or managing member has previously had a tobacco, liquor, or other type
of business license revoked for cause.
   (D)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (E)   A partnership or limited liability company, unless all of the members
of such partnership or limited liability company are qualified to obtain a
license.
   (F)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship or residency within the village.
   (G)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the State of Illinois, or
unless it is a foreign corporation qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act to transact business in Illinois.
   (H)   An applicant whose business on the licensed premises will be conducted
by a manger or agent, unless the manager or agent would be qualified to obtain
a license.
   (I)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of tobacco, or has forfeited
his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violations,
or a partnership in which a partner has previously has been convicted of such a
violation or failed to appear in court to answer to such charges, or any other
type of business entity in which an officer, director, manager or managing
member has previously been convicted of such a crime or failed to appear in
court to answer to such charges.
   (J)   An applicant who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12)
§ 119.06.1 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   Every person, partnership, firm or corporation engaged in the retail sale of
tobacco and tobacco-related products, as defined herein, shall be required to
obtain a Tobacco License. Such licenses shall be divided into the following
classes:
   (A)   Class A - Accessory tobacco sales. Class A licenses shall authorize
the limited retail sales of tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products and
tobacco-related products in accordance with the definition of accessory tobacco
sales contained herein.
   (B)   Class B - Tobacco store. Class B licenses shall authorize the
operation of a retail tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products store in
accordance with the definition of a tobacco store contained herein.
   (C)   License fee.  License fees for all classes are set forth below and as
subsequently amended from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
 
CLASS FEE
A     $200
B     $500
(Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 2875, passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 3006,
passed 12-21-15)
§ 119.06.2 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be available for issuance the following number of licenses for
each of the classifications:
   (A)   There shall be issued in the village no more than eight Class A
licenses.
   (B)   There shall be issued in the village no more than one Class B license.
(Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 2888, passed 1-6-14; Am. Ord. 2889, passed
1-6-14; Am. Ord. 2962, passed 1-20-15; Am. Ord. 3023, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord.
3184, passed 12-17-18; Am. Ord. 3300, passed 5-17-21)
§ 119.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village shall inspect each licensee for compliance.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12)
§ 119.08 SALES BY OR TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 to sell
tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products, or for any licensee, or
its agent, director, manager, employee, officer or representative, to permit
any person under 16 years of age to sell tobacco products and/or alternative
nicotine products in any licensed premises. All persons selling tobacco must
successfully complete a certified training course in age verification.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give, or
deliver tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products to any person
under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 2936, passed
9-2-14; Am. Ord. 3006, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3236, passed 12-16-19)
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.09 AGE VERIFICATION TRAINING REQUIRED.
   Each person who will be, or is selling, offering for sale, or otherwise
providing or giving away tobacco products in connection with the license must
have a certificate of completion, or other proof of completion, of a state-
certified training program such as T.I.P.S. or BASSETT, or a similar village
pre-approved training program relating to the law requiring verification of a
customer's age and detection of false identifications.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.10 PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase any
tobacco product and/or alternative nicotine product, or to misrepresent his or
her age or identity for the purpose of purchasing any tobacco product.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 3006, passed
12-21-15; Am. Ord. 3236, passed 12-16-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.11 TOBACCO SAMPLES.
   It shall be unlawful to distribute free tobacco and/or alternative nicotine
products or coupons for such products in or at any event or place open to the
public, except upon premises that hold a current and valid tobacco license.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 3006, passed
12-21-15) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.12 SALES OF TOBACCO REMOVED FROM MANUFACTURER'S PACKAGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale cigarettes or
other forms of tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products that are not sealed
and contained in the manufacturer’s packaging. Such packaging must include all
required health warnings and a tax stamp verifying that the cigarettes have
been legally taxed.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 3006, passed
12-21-15) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.13 VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   Vending machines and other devices for the sale or distribution of
tobacco products are prohibited, unless the machine or device was in place
prior to the date of the passage of Ordinance No. 2598, July 20, 2009.
   (B)   Vending machines or other such devices that were in place prior to the
date of the passage of Ordinance No. 2598, July 20, 2009, must be in view of a
licensee or its agent, director, manager, employee, officer or representative,
and must require an action by the licensee or its agent, director, manager,
employee, officer or representative to activate it for each sale if minors are
permitted in the premises.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.14 SIGNS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall obtain from the village, a sign informing the
public of the age restrictions upon the sale, purchase and possession of
tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products.
   (B)   The licensee shall prominently post such a sign in a location visible
from each cash register where tobacco products can be paid for, and/or at each
location within the premises where tobacco products may be otherwise provided
or given away.
   (C)   The licensee shall post such a sign on or as near as possible to every
display, machine or device offering tobacco products for sale.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 3006, passed
12-21-15) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.15 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   Every act or omission constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter by an agent, director, manager, employee, officer or
representative of a licensee shall also be deemed and held to be the act or
omission of such licensee, and the licensee shall be punishable in the same
manner as if it were directly responsible for the act or omission.
   (B)   The business shall keep, maintain, and have readily available for
inspection by the village, original certificates of completion of the training
program required under this chapter for each person who is or will be selling,
offering for sale, or otherwise providing or giving away tobacco products in
connection with the license.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.16 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to all other applicable fines and penalties, any licensee
who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the suspension
or revocation of his or her tobacco license.
      (1)   The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, may seek the
suspension or revocation of the license by filing charges with the Village
President alleging a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Before any suspension or revocation order shall be issued, the
village shall notify the licensee of the specific charges against it and of its
right to a hearing before the Village President. Notice shall be served upon
the licensee, at the address stated in the Tobacco License application, at
least seven days prior to the hearing date, by first class or express mail,
overnight carrier or personal service. At the hearing, the licensee may be
represented by counsel, cross-examine witnesses, and present documentary
evidence and witnesses. The Village Attorney, or his or her designee, shall
present sufficient evidence from witnesses having personal knowledge of the
offense to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a violation of the
aforementioned provisions occurred. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings under this section. The record
of each hearing shall include (a) a record of the testimony presented at the
hearing by a certified court reporter or recorded by other appropriate means;
(b) any document presented at the hearing; and (c) a copy of the written notice
of hearing that was served.
      (3)   Following review and consideration of the record, the Village
President shall issue, in writing, a determination as to whether a violation
occurred. If a violation is found, the Village President may suspend the
license for a period not to exceed 30 days, or may revoke the license. The
licensee may seek administrative review of a suspension or revocation order in
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall also constitute grounds for
suspension and/or revocation of any and all village licenses issued to the
business, person(s) or premises where such violations occur. Such revocation or
suspension shall be as provided for in the ordinance granting such license.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the suspension or revocation provided for herein, any
business or person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than $250 for the first offense, and not less than $500 for
each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2598, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 2779, passed 6-4-12)
CHAPTER 120: PRE-OWNED MERCHANDISE
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Recordation of transaction
   
120.03   Limitations on purchases
   
120.04   Daily reports
   
120.05   Resale of pre-owned merchandise
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONICS.  Includes but it not limited to the following general
categories or type of devices, systems or components: computer including note
pad, video, audio and video games.
   JEWELRY. Includes but it not limited to watches, rings, bracelets, necklaces
and any other article containing any precious or semi-precious stones or metal.
   MERCHANT. Any individual, partnership, corporation or entity operating a
retail business which purchases pre-owned merchandise at the retail business
locations and pawn brokers regulated under state law.
   PRE-OWNED MERCHANDISE. New or used jewelry, electronics, sporting goods and
equipment including golf clubs, and power and hand tools. It does not include
any merchandise taken or held for consignment sale or received in trade or in
exchange for the merchant's other pre-owned merchandise.
   SPORTING GOODS. Includes any equipment used by a participant in sporting or
recreational events or activities but specifically excludes personal fitness
equipment.
(Ord. 2709, passed 4-18-11)
§ 120.02 RECORDATION OF TRANSACTION.
   Any merchant who purchases pre-owned merchandise shall, for every
transaction, secure and maintain for at least two years from the date of the
transaction not less than the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, email address, telephone number, mobile number of
the seller;
   (B)   The following information shall be recorded from a legible copy of a
current United States federal or state issued photographic identification or
driver's license showing a clear photograph of the seller:
      (1)   Seller's name;
      (2)   Seller's address;
      (3)   Seller's date of birth;
      (4)   Seller's drivers license/identification number;
   (C)   A complete, accurate and full description of each item in excess of
$10, which, if located on the item shall include the serial number, model
number, identification number, or distinguishing marks, with photograph and
amount paid to the seller;
   (D)   Abbreviations shall not be used. Each item shall be listed separately
and terms such as "scrap," "bulk," etc, cannot be used in item descriptions;
and
   (E)   The exact time the pre-owned article was purchased.
(Ord. 2709, passed 4-18-11) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.03 LIMITATIONS ON PURCHASES.
   No merchant shall purchase any pre-owned merchandise:
   (A)   From any person who is under 18 years of age;
   (B)   Where someone other than the seller claims any interest in the pre-
owned merchandise;
   (C)   From any person appearing to be intoxicated, incapacitated, or under
the influence of alcohol or drugs; or
   (D)   From any person who is known to have been convicted of theft,
burglary, robbery or armed robbery.
(Ord. 2709, passed 4-18-11) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.04 DAILY REPORTS.
   A merchant shall fully comply with state law and shall also send a daily
report made by computer printout before the hour of 12:00 noon for any pre-
owned merchandise purchased during the preceding day except that sporting goods
shall be reported only if it is purchased for $30 or more. Handwritten reports
will not be accepted. The format of the report shall be approved by the Chief
of Police or the Chief’s designee. The daily reports shall be sent to the
Frankfort Police Department either by facsimile or electronically to
Resale@Frankfortpolice.net.
(Ord. 2709, passed 4-18-11) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.05 RESALE OF PRE-OWNED MERCHANDISE.
   No merchant shall sell, transfer or dispose of any pre-owned merchandise
purchased for $30 or more within five business days after it filed the daily
report of receipt of the merchandise as required under §
120.04. Items purchased for less than $30 have no waiting period.
(Ord. 2709, passed 4-18-11) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or business found to have violated any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense and not less than $500
for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2709, passed 4-18-11)
CHAPTER 121: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
121.01   Purpose; scope
   
121.02   Definitions
   
121.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
121.04   Dispute resolution
   
121.05   Indemnification
   
121.06   Insurance
§ 121.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner consistent with the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act (“the Act”), Public Act 100-0585.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 3334, passed 12-20-21)
§ 121.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical,
or fuel gas codes adopted by the village, and all local amendments thereto, as
amended from time to time.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, which may include the installation of a
new utility pole for such collocation, and the applicable review fee.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace  wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office, or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, 12 inches in height,
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located, in
whole or in part, within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in
the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used, in whole or in part,
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   UTILITY POLE CATEGORY. A description of the principal use of a utility pole,
such as electric distribution, lighting, traffic control, or a similar
function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a) Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b) Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider, but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 3334, passed 12-20-21)
§ 121.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
divisions (C)(16), (C)(18) and (H) below, regarding height exceptions or
variances, but not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. Prior to a wireless provider submitting a
small wireless facilities permit application, the village staff suggests the
applicant schedule a pre-application meeting. The purpose of the pre-
application meeting is to streamline the application and collocation process,
to promote the visual character and aesthetic of the village, and to
accommodate the needs of wireless providers. Wireless providers shall submit
the following information to the village, together with the village’s small
cell facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site-specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, makeready analysis prepared and certified by an Illinois-licensed
structural engineer, as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural
Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed, and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings, depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or the location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This shall include a depiction of the
completed facility. Photographs shall include sufficient perspective and detail
to document the existing conditions to which the work area will be restored;
         (c)   Photographs of each existing public or private pole located
within a 200-foot radius of the proposed small wireless facility. Where
multiple poles of the same type, material, size and color exist within the
radius, the applicant may substitute one photograph of each pole type, together
with a map depicting the multiple locations;
         (d)   A written statement determining if the proposed location is on a
historic landmark or within a historic district;
         (e)   Specifications and drawings prepared and certified by an
Illinois-licensed structural engineer, as that term is defined in Section 4 of
the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, for each proposed small
wireless facility covered by the application as it is proposed to be installed;
         (f)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (g)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         (h)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained in division (C) below, to the best of the
applicant’s knowledge; and
         (i)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
         (j)   Certification from a radio engineer that it operates the small
wireless facility within all applicable FCC regulations.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis, and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village, in
writing, of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
75 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application, or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application, or the
tenth day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial
of the permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The village shall deny an application that does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained in division (C) require that the utility pole or wireless
support structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall
be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant, without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement
of the village’s review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the village, in writing, of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, a new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement,
attached to Ord. 3334 as Exhibit A, provided by the village for the initial
collocation on a municipal utility pole by the applicant. For subsequent
approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a municipal
utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a license
supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application.
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether it is complete and notify the applicant. If an application is
incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing information. An
application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to provide
notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents, information
and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit application form are
submitted by the applicant to the village.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities, if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided, or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment, or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of five years.
The permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the village makes a
finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified utility pole
do not comply with the applicable village codes or any provision, condition or
requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall occur on the next anniversary date of the master pole
attachment agreement or permit issuance date, as the case may be, and shall be
subject to all other applicable village code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due, or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements, written design standards, and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for existing or future public safety uses, for the
village’s electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not
preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village
reasonably determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both
uses. The village hereby reserves, as a matter of policy, adequate space on
each municipal utility pole for public safety uses and/or the village’s
electric utility uses, whether desired for use now or in the future, and
sufficient sections of the pole’s interior to provide power, wiring, and in
some cases, the mounting of public safety apparatus, as the case may be. The
reservation of adequate space for public safety uses is a condition precedent
to the location of small wireless facilities. The village may, from time to
time, require the relocation of small wireless facilities to another location
or pole to provide public safety or electric utility uses as it deems necessary
or desirable; provided, however, relocation shall not be required if both the
public safety and/or electric utility use and the small wireless facility may
physically and technically operate on or about the same pole. In the event the
village decides it is necessary or desirable to remove, relocate or change any
or all of its municipal utility poles, the wireless provider shall relocate
their equipment and service(s), at their sole cost and expense, to a new
appropriate location approved by the village, which shall be installed
following the then current requirements. In the event the existing small
wireless facility can physically and technically operate on or about the same
pole as an existing or proposed public safety and/or electric utility use, but
doing so requires upgrades to the pole, changes to the structural capacity, or
other improvements, the small wireless provider shall have the right to
relocate their small wireless facility, complete the required design and
improvements to the existing location, at their sole cost and expense. Under no
circumstance shall the presence of a small wireless facility cause the village
any expense greater than what it would otherwise incur to locate the public
safety and/or electric utility use on a similarly situated pole not already
occupied by a small wireless facility.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance.
         (a)   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify
its small wireless facilities at their sole cost and expense, in safe condition
and good repair, and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter, the master pole attachment agreement and other state, federal and
local laws and requirements, as amended from time to time. All proposed
installations shall be fabricated from material similar in design and
aesthetics to the existing support pole, and shall have a degree of strength
capable of supporting all existing uses along with the proposed antenna and any
related appurtenances and cabling, which shall be cumulatively capable of
withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the structural
integrity standards set forth herein below. No extension or installation
fabricated from wood shall be permitted. The wireless provider shall ensure
that its employees, agents or contracts that perform work in connection with
its small wireless facilities are adequately trained and skilled in accordance
with all applicable industry and governmental standards and regulations.
         (b)   When a wireless provider replaces or adds a new radio
transceiver or antennas to an existing small wireless facility, the wireless
provider must provide to the village certification from a radio engineer that
the continuing operation of the small wireless facility complies with all
applicable FCC standards.
      (3)   Structural integrity. The wireless provider shall design, install
and maintain small wireless facilities to withstand a wind force of at least 90
miles per hour, as well as being designed to withstand a wind force of at least
40 miles per hour on a freestanding pole that is covered with at least three
quarters of an inch of ice, all without the use of guy wires. The wireless
provider shall provide the village with a structural evaluation of each
specific location containing a recommendation that the proposed installation
passes the standards described herein. The evaluation shall be prepared,
certified and signed by a professional structural engineer licensed in the
State of Illinois.
      (4)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications. A wireless provider shall install
small wireless facilities of the type and frequency that will not cause
unacceptable interference with a public safety agency’s communications
equipment.
         (b)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (c)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (d)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference, if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(4)(c) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (5)   Electric distribution/transmission utility pole design standards.
         (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the utility pole and on
the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (C)(5), the terms COMMUNICATIONS
SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code, as
published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (6)   Compliance with applicable codes. The wireless provider shall
comply with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations,
unless inconsistent with the Act, including those concerning public safety.
      (7)   Site selection design standards for new small wireless facilities.
The village standardizes the appearance of its utility poles as appropriate for
each area of the village and category of utility pole. To maintain consistency
of appearance and design of small wireless facilities throughout the village,
wireless providers shall use best efforts to mount equipment to village-owned
utility poles, including all categories of village-owned utility poles, such as
streetlights, traffic signals, and towers. In the event village-owned
infrastructure is not available or is clearly demonstrated to lack the
structural or technical capacity to meet the wireless provider’s needs,
wireless providers shall use best efforts to install and collocate on a utility
pole or alternative support structure preapproved by the village; provided the
wireless provider submits to the village copies of the written approval from
the owner of the specific pole or support structure. The owner’s approval shall
indicate the occupation of the pole by the wireless provider is subordinate to
the use and/or expanded use by public utilities existing prior to installation
of the wireless provider’s equipment, and shall further include a statement
indicating the owner has reviewed and approved of the construction plans
submitted as part of the application, including all technical specifications.
The owner’s approval shall also include their guarantee that the owner will
either cause the removal of abandoned equipment in accordance with requirement
herein or remove the equipment themselves.
      (8)   Independent electric service. The wireless provider shall provide
for their own use an independently metered electric service. Where temporary
and/or backup power sources are installed or used within 200 feet of a
residential property or structure intended for residential use, the wireless
provider shall utilize silent standby power supplies only.
      (9)   Quantity limitations. There shall be no more than one small
wireless facility mounted per pole.
      (10)   Non-proliferation. Wireless providers shall use best efforts to
not collocate a small wireless facility within 500 feet of another small
wireless facility.
      (11)   New poles. Wireless providers shall use best efforts to collocate
on existing utility poles or other support structures. New utility poles,
monopoles or other support towers of any type will be permitted when approved
by the village, subject to the provisions regarding alternative placements in
division (C)(16) below.
      (12)   Guy wires. No guy wires or other support wires shall be used in
connection with small wireless facilities, unless the facility is attached to
an existing pole or support structure that used guy wires prior to its use for
a small wireless facility, provided in no case shall the use of guy wires be
expanded beyond the existing condition.
      (13)   Compliance with design standards. The wireless provider shall
comply with written design standards generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, cabinets, enclosures and other appurtenances, and/or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements set forth herein, by other
village ordinances, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district. Unless the
village has adopted specific standards for installing new utility poles,
whenever an application to collocate a small wireless facility includes the
installation of a new utility pole, the plans shall specify the new utility
pole to be installed meet or exceed the best quality and aesthetic attributes,
as determined by the village only, of the existing public or private poles
installed within a 400-foot radius of the proposed location.
      (14)   Concealment of wiring and cabling. To promote the visual character
and aesthetic of the village, wireless providers shall use best efforts to
collocate small wireless facilities on hollow poles, unless no viable hollow
pole exists within a 500-foot radius of the desired location. Wires and cables
used to connect or service each small wireless facility shall be located within
the interior of hollow poles only. In the event there is insufficient space
within a hollow pole, the applicant shall assess the viability of locating the
small wireless facility on another nearby hollow pole, and if there are none,
the possible erection of a new pole capable of concealing all wiring within the
pole. In the event no other desirable locations of hollow poles exist and the
village authorizes a small wireless facility to be mounted to a solid pole, all
wiring and/or cables must be concealed within a cable shield, located and
designed pursuant applicable village ordinances, policies, planning documents
and/or design guidelines existing at the time. Approval to mount one small
wireless facility to a solid pole, which shall only occur under the most unique
and unusual circumstances, shall not constitute a waiver from the requirements
herein for all other small wireless facilities.
      (15)   Finished appearance. Wireless providers shall use best efforts to
conceal or camouflage. No equipment, cabling, concealment, stealthing,
apparatus or other components of the small wireless facility visible from the
right-of-way or nearby public or private property shall be painted or finished
in a way that does not match or complement the material and color of the pole
to which it is attached.
      (16)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this division (C), a wireless provider
shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific
utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate
multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the village may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within 200 feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept
if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division (C)(16)(b).
         (c)   Additionally, as provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-24, the
village may propose that a small wireless facility be collocated on an existing
utility pole within 200 feet of the wireless provider’s proposed location
within its public rights-of-way under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of
Section 15 of the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, and the entity
owning the utility pole shall provide access for that purpose.
      (17)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which it
is collocated. Any pole extension shall be of the same material, color and
design as the existing pole being extended, except however, wooden pole
extensions are strictly prohibited.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, in place on the
date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within 300
feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure, and
that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village; provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for that facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
         (c)   Minimum clearance from grade. No equipment related to a small
wireless facility shall be installed lower than 12 feet from grade, unless the
equipment is ground-mounted, undergrounded, or it is otherwise not feasible for
the equipment to be installed 12 feet or higher from grade.
      (18)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in Article 3, Section B of the Village of Frankfort Zoning Ordinance,
as amended from time to time.
      (19)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (20)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment in the right-of-way, if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses wireless
provider requests for an exception or a variance, and do not prohibit the
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (21)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval, if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install new utility poles or modify existing utility poles, and do not
prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (22)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period, or a delay
is caused by makeready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site; provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   An applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
      (2)   An applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for the collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance; or
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller and compliant with
all then current design standards of the village, if the wireless provider
notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned replacement, and
includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment consistent
with division (B)(1)(d) above; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small
wireless facilities on:
         (a)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or
controlled by the village or another unit of local government that is not
located within rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless
support structure, without the consent of the property owner;
         (b)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes, without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
         (c)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18c-
7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201), Metra
Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility
as defined in Section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5,
§ 16-102), without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility, or the utility’s wireless facilities, if they
are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)).
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (E), PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term
in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105).
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any
requirement:
         (a)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
         (b)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Preexisting agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter, for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities, that are the subject of an
application submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act, by
notifying the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The
existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination
provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has
collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the village before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its
option under this division (F)(2).
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals:
         (a)   Two hundred dollars per pole per year; or
         (b)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
      (2)   If P.A. 100-0585 is repealed as provided in Section 90 of the Act,
the annual recurring rate shall immediately increase to the then current
schedule of rents and annual adjustments as determined by the village, unless
otherwise restricted by law, in which case the maximum permissible rate shall
be charged and the rate shall be increased by the maximum permissible amount or
percentage at the most frequent permissible frequency, but not less than one
year.
      (3)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 per pole, payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
      (4)   Any small wireless facility located on a village utility pole
outside the right-of-way shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate of
$3,600 per pole per year.
   (H)   Construction and operational noise. In addition to all application FCC
regulations, a wireless provider shall comply with construction and operational
noise and acoustic regulations as set forth in §
94.01 of the Village of Frankfort Code of Ordinances (“the Code”) and any other
regulations as forth in the Code, as may be amended from time to time.
   (I)   Site restoration. A wireless provider shall be responsible to restore
any disturbed land, landscaping, paving, or other improvements, above or below
ground, to the condition existing prior to the installation of a small wireless
facility. In the event the photographs submitted pursuant division (B)(1)(b)
above are insufficient to determine the conditions present prior to the
installation, the village shall have the sole authority to specify reasonable
conditions for the restoration required.
   (J)   Signage. No signage may be displayed on the equipment associated with
the small wireless facility, unless required by law.
   (K)   Surety. Prior to installing a small wireless facility, a wireless
provider shall provide the village with a surety to remove and restore the
facility in the event of abandonment. A wireless provider shall maintain the
surety in continuous effect after the installation, and shall provide the
village 120 days’ notice if it is cancelled, transferred, terminated, or
otherwise not renewed.
   (L)   Notice of discontinued use and abandonment.
      (1)   The owner of each small wireless facility shall notify the village
in writing whenever it intends to discontinue the continuous use of a small
wireless facility. The notice shall identify the specific location(s) to be
discontinued and a schedule for removal of the small wireless facility. Removal
shall occur within 90 days of the date of discontinued use or the site is
deemed abandoned.
      (2)   A small wireless facility that is not removed within 90 days of the
date of discontinued use or is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned.
      (3)   The owner of the abandoned facility shall remove the small wireless
facility, at their sole cost and expense, within 90 days of the date of
abandonment or after receipt of written notice from the village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
      (4)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may call upon the surety provided under division
(K) above, and remove or cause the removal of the facility pursuant to the
terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility poles, or through
whatever actions are provided for the abatement of nuisances or by other law
for removal and cost recovery.
      (5)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. The notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider, and a listing of all locations within the village affected
by the sale or transfer. Upon transfer, the successor shall enter into a master
pole attachment agreement within 90 days, and immediately upon transfer,
provide a substitute surety as required in division (K) above.
(Ord. 3334, passed 12-20-21)
§ 121.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
    The Circuit Court of Will County, Illinois shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 3334, passed 12-20-21)
§ 121.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
    A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village, its officers,
employees, agents, and representatives harmless against any and all liability
or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or arising out
of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the village improvements, or
rights-of-way associated with such improvements, by the wireless provider or
its employees, agents, or contractors, arising out of the rights and privileges
granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no obligation
to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due
to or caused by the sole negligence of the village or its employees or agents.
A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against
the village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 3334, passed 12-20-21)
§ 121.06 INSURANCE.
    The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   (A)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured and provide it with the primary coverage on the commercial general
liability policy, and provide certification and documentation of inclusion of
the village in a commercial general liability policy prior to the collocation
of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village with evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 3334, passed 12-20-21)
CHAPTER 122: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
122.01   Definitions
   
122.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
122.03   Exemptions
   
122.04   Public nuisance declared
 
   
122.99   Penalty
§ 122.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter,
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time- to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchases per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027),
as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION does not include facilities licensed
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program (P.A. 98-122; 410
ILCS 130/1 et seq.) that only provide cannabis and related products to
qualified registered medical cannabis patients and designated caregivers.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocation
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, business, entity, firm, corporation, association, club,
society or other organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor,
employee, volunteer or agent.
(Ord. 3222, passed 8-19-19)
§ 122.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the village. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated
or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the village of any of the
following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; or
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 3222, passed 8-19-19)
§ 122.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to prohibit cannabis business
establishments that are registered medical cannabis cultivation centers or
medical cannabis dispensing organizations as defined in and authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq., and cultivate and/or distribute only medical cannabis as authorized by
that Act.
(Ord. 3222, passed 8-19-19)
§ 122.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 3222, passed 8-19-19)
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that violates any provision of this chapter, any rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder, shall be subject to a lawsuit seeking an
injunction and/or a fine of not less than $650 or more than $750 per violation.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during and on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 3222, passed 8-19-19)
CHAPTER 123: VACATION RENTALS
Section
   
123.01   Definitions
   
123.02   License
   
123.03   Application; information required
   
123.04   Department duties; license requirements and standards
   
123.05   License issuance and renewal; prohibitions
   
123.06   Legal duties
   
123.07   Prohibited acts
   
123.08   Regulations
   
123.09   License revocation; three-year wait for new license
   
   
123.99   Penalty
§ 123.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GUEST. A person or persons renting or occupying a vacation rental guestroom
overnight, and having a permanent residence at an address other than the
address of the vacation rental being temporarily rented or occupied. A vacation
rental GUEST may not stay overnight in any portion of the vacation rental not
designated as a guestroom.
   GUESTROOM. A room within a dwelling unit, forming a separate area, used, or
intended to be used for sleeping. A GUESTROOM does not include kitchens,
bathrooms, hallways, closets or common areas such as living rooms, family rooms
and dining rooms not defined as a bedroom under the International Property
Maintenance Code, or other applicable code adopted by the village.
   MANAGER. An authorized agent of the owner of the vacation rental who is
located within a 30-mile radius of the vacation rental, and is available to
promptly respond to complaints at all times during the rental period.
   OWNER. An individual with at least a 51% ownership interest in the property
on which the vacation rental is situated.
   VACATION RENTAL. A dwelling unit, or portion thereof, located in a Historic
H-l Zoning District and offered for overnight lodging on a temporary basis to
paying guests, no more than ten guests maximum, for a period not to exceed 14
consecutive days to any person other than a member of the owner’s family.
Vacation rental owners may, but are not required to, live in the vacation
rental during the periods when the property is rented. The term VACATION RENTAL
shall not include hotels, motels or bed and breakfast establishments; nor shall
it include HOUSE SWAPPING, where a homeowner switches or trades homes with
another homeowner in a different town for a short period of time for a
vacation, and no money is exchanged.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21)
§ 123.02 LICENSE.
   A village license is required to operate a vacation rental, as defined in
this chapter, within the village. The license year for the village shall
commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April 30 of the following
year, where no provision to the contrary is made. The application fee shall be
$200, and as subsequently amended from time to time by the President and Board
of Trustees. The annual license fee shall be $100, and as subsequently amended
from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees, with the initial fee
being prorated for the initial term of licensure. A vacation rental license
will not be issued unless a special use in the Historic H-l Zoning District
following a public hearing, consistent with the requirements of the village’s
zoning ordinance, has been issued for the property in which the vacation rental
is to operate. No license shall be transferable to another person or location
or to other vacation rental establishments.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.03 APPLICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   An application for, and, if requested, a renewal of, a business license to
engage in the business of vacation rental shall be accompanied by the following
information:
   (A)   A certificate of insurance, as required under section §
123.06 of this chapter;
   (B)   A statement as to whether the applicant or any other person with an
ownership interest in the property on which the vacation rental is located,
including co-owners, partners, members, managers, or officers of any owning
partnership, limited liability company or corporation, has ever been convicted
in any jurisdiction of any felony or crime that is rationally related to the
individual’s fitness or capacity to operate a vacation rental. The applicant
authorizes the village to conduct a background check on the applicant, owners
and managers;
   (C)   Proof that the applicant is an owner of the property on which the
vacation rental is located, and the names, addresses, ownership interest and
current contact information, including phone number and e-mail address, for the
owner and any co-owners, partners, members, managers, and officers;
   (D)   If the vacation rental property is subject to regulations or
restrictions by a homeowners’ association, condominium association or
neighborhood association, the applicant must provide documentary evidence that
the applicable association or board has approved the use of the property as a
vacation rental; and
   (E)   For renewals only, the applicant must provide a summary of the number
of nights the vacation rental was rented, and the number of guests who stayed
at the vacation rental during the previous 12-month period.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.04 DEPARTMENTAL DUTIES; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Building Department shall inspect each vacation rental before any
initial vacation rental license is issued for compliance with all applicable
village code requirements and village and state regulations, as time to time
amended. Thereafter, the Building Department shall inspect the vacation rental
at least once every two years. Vacation rentals shall be subject to compliance
inspections by staff members of the village’s Police and Building Departments
at any time upon reasonable notice. An inspection fee of $50 will be charged
for the initial inspection, and an inspection fee of $50 for each subsequent
and bi-annual inspection. In order for a license to be issued, a vacation
rental must comply with all village code requirements and village and state
regulations, as time to time amended.
   (B)   No vacation rental licensee shall:
      (1)   Rent any vacation rental for any period of time shorter than 24
consecutive hours;
      (2)   Rent any vacation rental more than once within any consecutive 24-
hour period, measured from the commencement of one rental to the commencement
of the next;
      (3)   Rent successively to any guest;
      (4)   Rent the property as a vacation rental for more than 60 days in a
license year;
      (5)   Serve or otherwise provide to any guest any food or beverage other
than food or beverages that are pre-packaged and sealed by the manufacturer for
individual serving; or
      (6)   Cause or permit, by action or failure to act, the vacation rental
or its use to suffer from and/or create any violation of this code.
   (C)   Every vacation rental licensee shall post, in a conspicuous place
within the vacation rental, the name, and telephone number of the licensee, or
his or her authorized agent, an emergency exit floor plan, and the location of
fire and safety equipment.
   (D)   Every vacation rental licensee or their manager must be located within
a 30-mile radius of the vacation rental, and must be available to promptly
respond to complaints at all times during the rental period. The name, address,
phone number and e-mail address of the licensee and their manager must be
submitted to the village and the Police Department.
   (E)   The kitchen shall be cleaned and sanitized between guests, and all
opened or perishable food and beverages shall be discarded. All dishes,
utensils, pots, pans, and other cooking utensils shall be cleaned and sanitized
between guests. The bathrooms shall be cleaned and sanitized between guests.
   (F)   Vacation rental licensees shall change supplied bed linens and towels
therein at least once each week, and prior to the renting of any guestroom to
any new guest. The licensee shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (G)   Any overnight parking for vacation rentals must be accommodated on the
site or in another approved location. Parking, including overnight parking,
shall be in conformance with this code and zoning ordinance requirements.
   (H)   The licensee shall compile a list of guests and their associated
vehicle license plate numbers upon check-in, and shall make such information
available to the Police Department at any time upon request.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.05 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL; PROHIBITIONS.
   No business license to engage in vacation rental shall be issued to:
   (A)   Any applicant, if the applicant or any other person with an ownership
interest in the property on which the vacation rental is located, including co-
owners, partners, members, managers, or officers of any owning partnership,
limited liability company or corporation, has ever been convicted in any
jurisdiction of any felony that is rationally related to the individual’s
fitness or capacity to operate a vacation rental;
   (B)   Any applicant whose license to operate a vacation rental or similar
establishment at any location within or outside the village has been revoked
for cause within the last three years;
   (C)   Any applicant, where the applicant or any other person with an
ownership interest in the property on which the vacation rental is located,
including co-owners, partners, members, managers, or officers of any owning
partnership, limited liability company or corporation, is in default to the
village regarding the payment of water and sewer charges, special taxes or
assessments, parking and other village violation citations or judgments, motor
vehicle taxes, or any other taxes or fees that are due and unpaid by that
person to the village, or where there are delinquent property taxes owed to
Will or Cook Counties on the property on which the vacation rental is located,
or any other property owned within the village by the applicant or co-owners,
partners, members, managers, or officers of any owning partnership, limited
liability company or corporation.;
   (D)   Any applicant who intends to operate a vacation rental on a property
that has not been issued a special use in the Historic H-1 Zoning District
following a public hearing, consistent with the requirements of the village’s
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21)
§ 123.06 LEGAL DUTIES.
   Each vacation rental licensee shall be required to:
   (A)   Provide with the application an insurance certificate, indicating that
the applicant and subject property is covered by liability insurance with
limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, for bodily injury and
property damage arising in any way from the issuance of the license. Each
policy of insurance required under this division shall:
      (1)   Be issued by an insurer authorized to insure in the State of
Illinois;
      (2)   Include a provision requiring 30 days’ advance notice to the
village prior to cancellation or lapse of the policy. The licensee shall
maintain the insurance required under this section in full force and effect for
the duration of the license period for each vacation rental location. A single
violation of this division shall result in suspension or revocation of the
license;
   (B)   Maintain current guest registration records containing the following
information about each guest: the guest’s name, address, signature, room
assignment, dates of accommodation, and the names of all occupants. The
registration records shall be kept on file for three years and, upon request by
any authorized village official, shall be made available for inspection by that
village official during regular business hours or in case of an emergency;
   (C)   Comply with all applicable village code requirements and village and
state regulations, as time to time amended;
   (D)   Conspicuously display a current village vacation rental license within
the vacation rental, with the name and telephone number of the licensee or his
or her manager, an emergency exit floor plan and the location of fire and
safety equipment. The license should be available for inspection by any
authorized village official upon request; and
   (E)   Fulfill all requirements of the Illinois Department of Revenue for the
operation of a vacation rental, including the payment of any applicable hotel
taxes.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vacation rental licensee to:
   (A)   Exceed the scope of the license;
   (B)   Allow occupancy of the property where the vacation rental or any part
thereof is situated to exceed the following occupancy limits:
      (1)   Guests may only stay overnight in a guestroom, as defined in this
chapter and as provided for in the village’s zoning ordinance;
      (2)   Authorized persons on a vacation rental property while a vacation
rental is taking place are a maximum total of ten guests and their children age
12 and under, plus the owner/licensee, co-owners, manager, and the owner’s
family members.
      (3)   No pets other than service animals shall be allowed on the property
other than those belonging to the owner/licensee.
   (C)   Rent any vacation rental for more than 14 consecutive days to any
guest. A guest may not successively rent or occupy the vacation rental to
exceed 14 consecutive days;
   (D)   Rent any portions of the vacation rental concurrently to separate
guests;
   (E)   Hold out or utilize a vacation rental property as a venue for
weddings, conferences, parties, or other events, regardless of the number of
attendees;
   (F)   Erect any external signage regarding the vacation rental;
   (G)   Allow any disruptive activity that would disturb the tranquility of
the neighborhood;
   (H)   Permit any criminal activity or public nuisance, including excessive
noise, to take place on the property. If a licensee knows or suspects that any
criminal activity or public nuisance is taking place on or immediately adjacent
to the property, the licensee shall immediately notify the Police Department of
such fact and cooperate with the Police Department in any investigation that
may ensue;
   (I)   Knowingly make any false, incomplete or misleading statement about the
licensee’s criminal background, or the criminal background of any other person
with an ownership interest, in connection with any license application
submitted pursuant to this chapter; or
   (J)   Be in violation of any other requirement of this chapter, this code or
the zoning ordinance, or any rules or regulations promulgated under any of the
foregoing.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.08 REGULATIONS.
   The Village Administrator shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations necessary to implement the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21)
§ 123.09 LICENSE REVOCATION; THREE-YEAR WAIT FOR NEW LICENSE.
   If a vacation rental license is revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to any person for the operation of a vacation rental at the property
described in the revoked license, or to the revoked licensee, and his or her
co-owners, or the partners, members, managers, or officers of any owning
partnership, limited liability company or corporation, for a period of three
years from the date of revocation.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21)
§ 123.99 PENALTY.
   Any one violation of this chapter, or of any rules or regulations
promulgated under this chapter, may result in fines, suspension, or revocation.
A violation of any section of this chapter is subject to a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. In addition to any
other fines or penalties, the Village Administrator shall have the authority to
suspend or revoke a vacation rental license for violation of this chapter,
after notice and opportunity to be heard, with a right to appeal to the
President whose decision is final.
(Ord. 3315, passed 9-20-21)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
130.01   Assault
   
130.02   Battery
   
130.03   Reckless conduct
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ASSAULT.
   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 BATTERY.
   A person commits a battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means causes bodily harm to an individual or makes
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means, commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endanger safety, whether they otherwise are lawful
or unlawful.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this chapter
shall be subject to a minimum fine of not less than $50 and a maximum fine of
not more than $750, unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
Theft and Related Offenses
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Theft
Retail Theft
   
131.15   Definitions
   
131.16   Offense of retail theft
   
131.17   Presumptions
   
131.18   Detention
   
131.19   Affirmative defense
   
131.20   Civil liability
Damage and Trespass to Property
   
131.30   Criminal damage to property
   
131.31   Criminal trespass to land
   
131.32   Graffiti prohibited
   
131.33   Hours of operation
   
131.34   Fishing regulations and fees
 
   
131.99   Penalty
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OBTAINS CONTROL OVER PROPERTY. The taking, carrying away or the sale,
conveyance, or transfer of title to, or interest in, or possession of property.
   OWNER. A person, other than the offender who has possession of or any
interest in the property involved even though such interest or possession is
unlawful, and without whose consent the offender has no authority to exert
control over the property.
   PERMANENT DEPRIVATION. Means to:
   (1)   Defeat all recovery of the property by the owner;
   (2)   Deprive the owner permanently of the beneficial use of the property;
   (3)   Retain the property with intent to restore it to the owner only if the
owner purchases or leases it back, or pays a reward or other compensation for
its return; or
   (4)   Sell, give, pledge, or otherwise transfer any interest in the property
or subject it to the claim of a person other than the owner.
   PROPERTY. Includes real estate, money, commercial instruments, admission or
transportation tickets, written instruments representing or embodying rights
concerning anything of value, labor or services or otherwise of value to the
owner; things growing on, affixed to or found on land, or part of or affixed to
any building; electricity, gas and water; birds, animals and fish, which
ordinarily are kept in a state of confinement; food and drink; samples,
cultures, micro-organisms, specimens, records, recordings, documents,
blueprints, drawings, maps, and whole or partial copies, descriptions,
photographs, prototypes, or models thereof which constitute, represent,
evidence, reflect or record a secret scientific, technical, merchandising,
production or management information, design, process, procedure, formula,
invention or improvement.
   STOLEN PROPERTY. Property over which control has been obtained by theft.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
§ 131.02 THEFT.
   A person commits theft when he knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
   (C)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen, and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit.
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefits.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
RETAIL THEFT
§ 131.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONCEAL MERCHANDISE. Although there may be some notice of its presence, that
merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE. The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
   MERCHANDISE. Any item of tangible personal property.
   MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, direction, franchisee, or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   MINOR. A person who is less than 19 years of age, is unemancipated and
resides with his parents or legal guardian.
   PERSON. Any natural person or individual.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment
is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. The retail mercantile
establishment, any common use areas in shopping centers and all parking areas
set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a merchant for the parking of vehicles
for the convenience of the patrons of such retail mercantile establishment.
   MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held,
stored, or offered for sale to the public.
   SHOPPING CART. Those push carts of the type which are commonly provided by
grocery stores, drug stores or other retail mercantile establishments for the
use of the public in transporting commodities in stores and market, and,
incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
   UNDER-RING. To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
(Ord. 1010, passed 10-18-82)
§ 131.16 OFFENSE OF RETAIL THEFT.
   A person commits the offense of retail theft when he knowingly:
   (A)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored, or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise;
   (B)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia of
value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
   (C)   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale,
in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which such
merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
   (D)   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
   (E)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart.
(Ord. 1010, passed 10-18-82) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.17 PRESUMPTIONS.
   If any person:
   (A)   Conceals upon his person or among his belongings, unpurchased
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment; and
   (B)   Removes that merchandise beyond the last-known station for receiving
payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment, such
person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away, or transferred such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise.
(Ord. 1010, passed 10-18-82)
§ 131.18 DETENTION.
   (A)   As is or may be permitted by state law, any merchant who has
reasonable grounds to believe that a person has committed retail theft may
detain such person, on or off the premises of a retail mercantile establishment
in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time for all or any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   To request identification;
      (2)   So verify such identification;
      (3)   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandise and to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of such merchandise;
      (4)   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and
surrender that person to the custody of the peace officer; or
      (5)   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents,
guardian or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of
this detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
   (B)   A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the premises
of a retail mercantile establishment only if such detention is pursuant to an
immediate pursuit of such person.
(Ord. 1010, passed 10-18-82)
§ 131.19 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   A detention as permitted in this chapter does not constitute an arrest or an
unlawful restraint, nor shall it render the merchant liable to the person so
detained.
(Ord. 1010, passed 10-18-82)
§ 131.20 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   (A)   The parents or legal guardian of a minor who commits the offense of
retail theft as defined in §
131.15 shall be civilly liable for the full retail value or cost of repair or
cost of replacement of the merchandise and actual damages not to exceed the
limitation provided by state law, including, but not limited to an act to
authorize recovery of damages from parents or legal guardians due to the wilful
injury to person or property by minors (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.) as
now or hereinafter amended.
   (B)   A conviction or plea of guilty of the retail theft is not a
prerequisite to the bringing of a civil suit hereunder. Recovery under an act
to authorize recovery of damages from parents or legal guardians due to the
wilful injury to person or property by minors (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 et
seq.) may be had in addition to, and is not limited by, any other provision of
law which limits the liability of a parent or legal guardian for tortious
conduct of a minor.
(Ord. 1010, passed 10-18-82)
DAMAGE AND TRESPASS TO PROPERTY
§ 131.30 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Whoever performs any of the following acts, commits the offense of criminal
damage to property:
   (A)   Knowingly damage any real or personal property of another without his
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his consent;
   (E)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intends to interfere with the use of the land or building.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.31 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   Whoever enters upon the land or a building or any part thereof of
another, after having received, prior to such entry, notice from the owner,
occupant, or a peace officer in the lawful performance of his duties that such
entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after receiving notice
from the owner, occupant or a peace officer in the lawful performance of his
duties to depart, commits the offense of criminal trespass to land.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner, occupant, or a peace
officer in the lawful performance of his duties within the meaning of division
(A) above if he has been notified personally, either orally or in writing, or
if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously
posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part
thereof.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1510, passed 5-1-95) Penalty, see 131.99
§ 131.32 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   GRAFFITI. Graffiti in public view is hereby declared to be a nuisance as set
forth in the ordinances of the village and subject to the provisions of the
village ordinances regarding nuisances and abatement thereof.
   (B)   Nuisance Declared. Graffiti in public view is hereby declared to be a
nuisance as set forth in the ordinances of the village and subject to the
provisions of the village ordinances regarding nuisances and abatement thereof.
   (C)   Placement Upon Property. It shall be unlawful for any person to place
graffiti upon the real or personal, public or private property of another
without that person's permission.
   (D)   Sign Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or
occupant of fixed real or personal property which is in public view to place or
give permission for the placement of any graffiti on such property without
having first obtained a properly issued sign permit.
   (E)   Spray Paint, Markers Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to possess, while in any public building or public facility or while on private
property, a spray paint container, paint, ink, marking pen which contains a
nonwater-soluble fluid, brush, applicator or any other material for marking,
scratching or etching with the intent to use such material in violation of
division (C) or (D) of this section.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.33 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation for the Frankfort Prairie Park shall be from dawn to
dusk.
(Ord. 1993, passed 7-7-03)
§ 131.34 FISHING REGULATIONS AND FEES.
   Fishing shall be regulated by permit only for those 16 years of age and
over, with proof of a valid state fishing license, for the Frankfort Prairie
Park. The license fee rates follow:
   (A)   Resident   $1.00
   (B)   Non-Resident   $5.00
(Ord. 2004, passed 8-4-03)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this
chapter for which another penalty is not otherwise herein provided shall be
subject to a minimum fine of not less than $50 and a maximum fine of not more
than $750, unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The penalty for violation of §
131.32(C) shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750. In addition
to said fine, the offender may be ordered by the court to pay restitution to
the property owner for the costs of restoring the property to its state prior
to the application of graffiti.
         (b)   The penalty for violation of §
131.32(D) shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750 and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
         (c)   The penalty for violation of §
131.32(E) shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750.
         (d)   The penalty for violation of §
131.33 shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750.
         (e)   The penalty for violation of §
131.34 shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750.
      (2)   Gang Member Penalties. Any person convicted of a violation of §
131.32(C), (D) or (E) who is found to have been a member of a gang or a
candidate for membership in a gang at the time the offense was committed and
who is found to have violated said subsection in conjunction with gang- related
activities, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $750
in addition to other penalties provided in this section.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 1993, passed
7-7-03; Am. Ord. 2004, 8-4-03)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Loitering
   
132.03   Smoking on public conveyances
   
132.04   Storage of explosives
   
132.05   Loud or unnecessary noises
   
132.06   Mob action
   
132.07   Gang signs prohibited
   
132.08   Public intoxication
Curfew for Minors
   
132.20   Minors prohibited on streets during certain hours
   
132.21   Parental responsibility
   
132.22   Detaining minors in violation of subchapter
   
132.23   Truancy prohibited
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Village Police Department or Fire
Protection District, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire
exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to any person, a false alarm to the effect
that a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of each such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive is concealed in such place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
or deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or
other opening in it.
   (G)   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
   (H)   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known to him to
be a peace officer under circumstances where three or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts are
likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or alarm;
or
   (I)   Assembles with two or more persons for the purpose of using force or
violence to disturb the public peace; or
   (J)   Goes upon any school property, public or private within the village at
any time when other persons are present, for the purpose of making or doing any
unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture, or does or makes any
unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or display, which disrupts or
interferes with the educational classes or social and athletic activities then
and there in progress;
   (K)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer or public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   (L)   Fights by agreement or mutual consent with another person or person;
strikes, fights, or commits an assault and battery upon the person of another,
or aids, abets, assists or encourages any person to fight or to commit an
assault and battery upon another.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location and including the
concepts of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay; to saunter;
to delay; to stand around and also any activity described by the colloquial
expression “hanging around.”
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a
right to resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose, but does
not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. The term
shall also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant,
tavern or other place of business and also public grounds, areas or parks.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle either alone and/or in consort with others in a public place in
such manner so as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress, and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
   (C)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in
division (B) of this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer
shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to
move on or disperse. Any such person who fails or refuses to obey such orders
shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 SMOKING ON PUBLIC CONVEYANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar
or pipe in any public conveyance having a capacity of more than seven
passengers.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
132.99
Cross-reference:
   Smoking prohibited in public places, see
Ch. 138
   Tobacco regulations, see
Ch. 119
§ 132.04 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, EXPLOSIVE or EXPLOSIVES
shall mean any chemical compound or any mechanical mixture containing any
oxidizing and combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause sudden
generation of highly heated gases, that the resultant gaseous pressures are
capable of producing destructive effects upon life, limb or contiguous objects,
but does not mean gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, turpentine, benzine, butane,
propane colloided nitrocellulose in sheets or rods or grains not under one-
eighth of an inch in diameter, wet nitrocellulose and wet nitro starch
containing 20% or more moisture. Manufactured articles such as fixed ammunition
for small arms, fire crackers, safety fuse, matches, and the like, shall not be
held to be explosive when the individual units contain explosives in such
limited quantity, of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to
produce a simultaneous or a destructive explosion of such units, to the injury
of life, limb or property.
   (B)   No person shall keep or store any explosives in any house, store or
warehouse or other place within the corporate limits of said village. This
section shall not be deemed applicable to retailers of either dynamite or
gunpowder.
   (C)   No retailer of dynamite or gunpowder shall keep or store any quantity
thereof greater than 50 pounds weight in any storehouse, shop or other place
within the corporate limits of said village, except in fireproof magazines
constructed of material and design to be approved of by resolution of the
Village Board of Trustees. Said quantity of 50 pounds weight shall be kept
confined in said fireproof magazines in closed tin or copper canisters, and no
such retailer of dynamite or gunpowder shall be permitted to sell, retail or
give away the same in said village after dusk in the evening.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the president of the Board of Trustees, when
complaint is made to him by any village officer, or upon the affidavit of any
citizen stating that there is probably cause to suspect any person of keeping
or concealing any dynamite, gunpowder or other explosive contrary to the
provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section, to take with him any
police officer or constable of this village, and search and examine any place
within the said corporate limits of said village to ascertain the truth of such
allegations or suspicion, and if it be found, on examination of any premises as
aforesaid, that dynamite or gunpowder is therein stored or concealed contrary
to the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the offender
shall be forthwith prosecuted for a violation thereof, and upon refusal of such
offender to comply with the provisions of this section within 24 hours after a
written request so to do.
   (E)   No person, firm or corporation shall allow to be stored in any freight
depot in the village, any explosives overnight in any quantity.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 LOUD OR UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others.
   (B)   The following acts are examples of the noises prohibited by this
section:
      (1)   The throwing or propelling of any firecrackers, roman candles or
rockets of any type, or any articles of any explosive nature, intended to be
used as firecrackers.
      (2)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, motorbus or other vehicle on any street or public place of the
village, except as a danger warning or the creation, by means of any such
signaling device, of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound or the sounding of
any horn or signaling device for an unnecessary period of time or the use of
any signaling device, except one operated by hand or electricity or the use of
any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust, and the use of
any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 MOB ACTION.
   (A)   Mob action consists of any of the following:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law; or
      (2)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of any one supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   (B)   Participating in mob action and not withdrawing on being commanded to
do so by any peace officer.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 GANG SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to display,
demonstrate or throw a gang sign in any public place within the village.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      INTOXICATED PERSON or PERSON WHO IS INTOXICATED. Any person who appears
mentally, physically or emotionally impaired due to alcohol, drugs or
controlled substances or a combination of them. This section imposes a
rebuttable presumption a person is intoxicated if a person exhibits at least
two of the following characteristics or conduct:
         (a)   Odor of intoxicating liquor on the breath;
         (b)   Blood shot eyes;
         (c)   Dilated pupils;
         (d)   Stumbling or staggering walk;
         (e)   Slurred speech;
         (f)   Unable to stand or walk unaided when not due to any non-alcohol
related physical condition or disability;
         (g)   Inability to adequately perform the field sobriety tests
utilized in determining if a person is under the influence while operating a
motor vehicle;
         (h)   Public urination;
         (i)   Public vomiting;
         (j)   Public nudity or indecency;
         (k)   Conduct which would be considered belligerent, argumentative,
threatening, intimidating or offensive.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Conduct by a person which would be disorderly, offensive
or obnoxious to a reasonable person including but not limited to the following
actions: threatening or combative speech; lewd, sexually suggestive or
offensive conduct or speech; public nudity; public urination; threatening,
belligerent or combative actions or conduct; fighting; or any disorderly
conduct as prohibited in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, sidewalk, right-of-way, park,
recreational trail, public green or open space, parking lot, school,
governmental facility or office, church or place of worship, or building or
facility generally open to the public.
   (B)   Prohibition of intoxicated person in a public place. No person who is
intoxicated shall be in a public place and:
      (1)   Be a public nuisance; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct which does or could injure himself/herself or
others; or
      (3)   Engage in conduct which does or could damage property.
(Ord. 2694, passed 2-22-11) Penalty, see §
132.99
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 132.20 MINORS PROHIBITED ON STREETS DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 16 years of age to be on,
about or remain upon any street, alley, public way or public place situated
within the corporate limits of the village between the hours of 9:30 p.m. and
5:00 a.m. unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other
person having custody of said minor person or unless the minor person is
engaged in lawful and permitted employment making it necessary to be in a place
or on such street, alley, public way or public place after 9:30 p.m. or before
5:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person between 16 years of age and under
18 years of age to be on, about or remain upon any street, alley, public way or
public place situated within the corporate limits of the village between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Sunday through 5:00 a.m. Friday and
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. on Friday evening and
Saturday evening unless such person is accompanied by a parent or guardian, or
other person having custody of said minor, or unless said minor is engaged in
lawful employment making it necessary to be in a place at a time not otherwise
permitted herein.
   (C)   Exemption. No child shall be guilty of this offense if involved in,
going to or coming from an activity involving the exercise of the child's
rights protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution
and or Article 1, Sections 2, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the State of
Illinois.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 10-18-82; Am. Ord. 2743,
passed 10-3-11) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.21 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any parent, legal guardian or other person commits improper supervision of a
minor when he permits a minor in his custody or control under 18 years of age
to violate the municipal curfew of the village.
(Ord 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 10-18-82) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.22 DETAINING MINORS IN VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Every member of the police force is authorized to detain any minor
violating the provisions of this subchapter until the parent or guardian of the
minor shall take said minor into their custody, and said police officer shall
notify the parent or guardian as soon as is practicable after taking the minor
into custody.
   (B)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
§
132.20(C) is present.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 2743, passed 10-3-11)
§ 132.23 TRUANCY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Absence prohibited. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under the age of 18 who is enrolled in a public, private or parochial
school to absent himself from attendance at such school without the permission
of his legal guardian(s) or parent(s). Any person who shall so absent himself
shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and be subject to the penalties set
forth below. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other
reasonable cause beyond the control of the person so absenting himself from
school without the permission of his parent(s) or legal guardian(s) shall not
constitute truancy if such permission is obtained from said parent(s) or legal
guardian(s) and submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within 24
hours of such absence.
   (B)   Initial contact and documentation: procedure.
      (1)   Upon encountering a school-age individual outside of school during
school hours, a police officer or truant officer shall:
         (a)   Question such individual in order to determine whether the
individual has violated this chapter and verify truancy with the school via
radio, telephone or personal visit; and
         (b)   Upon reasonably ascertaining that such individual has violated
this chapter, seize the individual and return him to the proper authority at
the school; and
         (c)   Complete a truancy report containing the following information:
full name, date of birth, address, telephone number, parent or guardian's name,
work place telephone number and school attended; and
         (d)   Forward a copy of the report to juvenile investigations and the
truant officer of Will County.
      (2)   A juvenile officer shall renew the report and complete or update an
applicable juvenile contact card. Further, a school representative or county
truant officer may file a report of truancy directly with a juvenile directly
in cases of frequent truancy that is not documented by police reports.
   (C)   Chronic truants: procedure. A chronic truant, hereinafter defined as
an individual who has violated this section three times in one year or has
otherwise been shown to have absented himself from school three times in one
year, shall submit to a student and parent conference with either a juvenile
officer, county truant officer or school representative at the request of same.
The following disposition or "staffing" may result:
      (1)   Station adjustment.
      (2)   Station adjustment with supervision by a juvenile officer, if
applicable.
      (3)   Referral or chronic truant to counseling and/or appropriate agency
to deal with the specialized problem.
      (4)   Referral to the court.
   (D)   Recommended dispositions in juvenile or adult court.
      (1)   The court shall consider the following as possible dispositions of
a chronic truancy case:
         (a)   Adult supervision for one year or for the balance of the school
year in which the offense was committed.
         (b)   Suspension of driver's license where applicable.
         (c)   Community service work.
         (d)   Fines of $150 to $750, which may be waived upon the successful
completion of the school year without unexplained absence.
   (E)   Referral to specific agencies. Referral to specific agencies available
to address specific problems.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this
subchapter shall be subject to a minimum fine of not less than $50 and a
maximum fine of not more than $750 unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
132.04 (B) and (E) shall be fined not more than $750 for every offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
132.04 (C) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $750 for every
offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
132.04 (D) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750.
(Ord 862, passed 4-15-74)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
132.06 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for the first
violation, and shall be fined not less than $750 for the second and each
subsequent violation. Each day that a violation of this section may continue
shall be deemed a separate violation hereof. (Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98)
   (F)   Any person found to have violated §
132.07 shall be fined not less than $150 and not more than $750.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98)
   (G)   Any person found to have violated any provision of §
132.08 shall be fined not less than $250 and not more than $500. (Ord. 2694,
passed 2-22-11)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Impersonating a peace officer
   
133.02   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person commits a false personation when he falsely represents himself to a
member of any police, fraternal or veteran's organization, including the
Illinois Police Association, or a representative of any charitable
organization, or when any person exhibits or uses in any manner any decal,
badge or insignia of any police organization when not authorized to do so by
such police organization.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   Whoever knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the
person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his official capacity
commits the offense of resisting or obstructing a peace officer.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this chapter
shall be subject to a minimum fine of not less than $50 and a maximum fine of
not more than $750 unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Public indecency
Prostitution
   
134.15   Patronizing or soliciting for prostitute
   
134.16   Pimping
   
134.17   Pandering
   
134.18   Keeping a place of prostitution
Obscenity
   
134.30   Definitions
   
134.31   Elements of offense of obscenity
   
134.32   Interpretation of evidence
   
134.33   Permissive inference
   
134.34   Affirmative defenses
   
134.35   (Reserved)
   
134.36   Sale or exhibition of obscene materials
   
134.37   Sale or exhibition of obscene materials to minors
 
   
134.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROSTITUTION. Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any act
of sexual penetration as herein defined for money, or any touching or fondling
of the sex organs of one person by another person, for money or anything of
value, for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification commits an act of
prostitution.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place where the prohibited conduct may reasonably be
expected to be viewed by others.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Any intentional or knowing touching or fondling by the
victim or the accused, either directly or through clothing, of the sex organs,
anus or breast of the victim or the accused or any part of the body of a child
under 13 years of age, for the purpose of sexual gratification or arousal of
the victim or accused.
   SEXUAL PENETRATION. Any contact, however slight, between the sex organ of
one person and the sex organ, mouth or anus of another person, or any
intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of one person or of any
animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another person, including but
not limited to cunnilingus, fellatio or anal penetration. Evidence of emission
of semen is not required to prove sexual penetration.
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   Any person of the age of 17 years or upward who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as herein defined; or
   (B)   A lewd exposure of the body done with the intent to arouse or to
satisfy sexual desire of the person.
Penalty, see §
134.99
PROSTITUTION
§ 134.15 PATRONIZING OR SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTE.
   (A)   Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not
his spouse commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
      (1)   Engages in an act of sexual penetration as defined in §
134.01 with a prostitute.
      (2)   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with intent to engage
in an act of sexual penetration as defined in §
134.01.
   (B)   Any person who performs any of the following acts commits the offense
of soliciting for a prostitute:
      (1)   Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution.
      (3)   Directs another to a place knowing the direction is for the purpose
of prostitution.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.16 PIMPING.
   Any person who receives money or other property from a prostitute, not for a
lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in part from the
practice of prostitution, commits the offense of pimping.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.17 PANDERING.
   Any person who performs any of the following acts for money commits the
offense of pandering:
   (A)   Compels a person to become a prostitute; or
   (B)   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a person may
practice prostitution.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.18 KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place which
could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution, who performs
any of the following acts, keeps a place of prostitution, which is hereby
declared to be an offense:
   (A)   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution.
   (B)   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from which
he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for purposes
of prostitution.
   (C)   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts or
circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being used
for purposes of prostitution.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
134.99
OBSCENITY
§ 134.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OBSCENE. Any material or performance is obscene if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(b))
   PUBLICATION or OTHER ARTICLE. Any representation, description or embodiment
whatsoever, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Writings and pictures, whether or not printed.
      (2)   Photographs and photographic film, developed or undeveloped.
      (3)   Phonograph records and other sound recordings.
      (4)   Sculptures.
   SALE or EXHIBITION. Circulation, distribution, giving away and all other
forms of dissemination.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
§ 134.31 ELEMENTS OF OFFENSE OF OBSCENITY.
   A person commits the offense of obscenity when, with knowledge of the nature
or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection
which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof, he or she:
   (A)   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
   (B)   Presents or directs any obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
   (C)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene; or
   (D)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition of
his or her body for gain; or
   (E)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this subchapter, or of the penal laws
or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
   (F)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(a))
§ 134.32 INTERPRETATION OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults, except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
   (B)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale, dissemination,
distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being commercially
exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with
respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the conclusion that the
matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   (C)   In any prosecution for an offense under this subchapter, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
      (1)   The character of the audience for which the material was designed
or to which it was directed;
      (2)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people;
      (3)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits of
the materials, or absence thereof;
      (4)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
      (5)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material;
      (6)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(c))
§ 134.33 PERMISSIVE INFERENCE.
   The trier of fact may infer an intent to disseminate from the creation,
purchase, procurement or possession of a mold, engraved plate or other
embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or
the possession of more than three copies of obscene material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(e))
§ 134.34 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity that the dissemination:
   (A)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
   (B)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other special
justification for possession of such material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(f))
§ 134.35 (RESERVED).
§ 134.36 SALE OR EXHIBITION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS.
   The sale or exhibition of any obscene publication or other article, as
judged with reference to ordinary adults, is declared to be a public nuisance
and is prohibited.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.37 SALE OR EXHIBITION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS TO MINORS.
   Any person, who with knowledge of the nature or contents thereof, sells,
offers to sell, exhibits or offers to exhibit to any person under the age of 18
years, any publication or other article, obscene as judged with reference to
ordinary persons of the age of the person to whom the publication or other
article is sold, offered for sale, exhibited or offered for exhibition, shall
be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this chapter
for which no other penalty is set forth shall be subject to a minimum fine of
not less than $50 and a maximum fine of not more than $750 unless otherwise
specified herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place; revocation of license and permits
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices
   
135.05   Prohibition of video gaming within the corporate limits of the village
   
135.06   Raffles
 
   
135.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Charitable games events, see §§
115.40 -
115.42
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machine or
device for the reception of money or other things of value on chance or skill
or upon the action of which money or other things of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
   (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
   (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win the prizes, whether the scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
village, he:
      (1)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in division (B);
      (2)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any
political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or another the option to buy or
sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it is at
the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that the
contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to ILCS Ch. 815, Act
5, § 8, or by or through a person exempt from such registration under ILCS Ch.
815, Act 5, § 8, of a put, call, or other option to buy or sell securities
which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are exempt from
such registration under ILCS Ch. 815, Act 5, § 3 is not gambling within the
meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the courses of a bet or
wager;
      (6)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell, or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell, or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document, or
other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticker or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
divisions (B)(6), (8) and (9) of this section.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the State of Illinois in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch.
230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.;
      (9)   The purchase of raffle chances for a raffle conducted in accordance
with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act;
      (10)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.; or
      (11)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20,
§ 1 et seq.
      (12)   Gambling games when authorized by ILCS Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et
seq.
      (13)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act.
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under divisions (A)(1)
through (11), circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight
as in any criminal prosecution.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1) (Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1, has been amended to prohibit and exempt
additional activities.
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE; REVOCATION OF LICENSE AND PERMITS.
   (A)   A gambling place is any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other
property whatsoever used for the purposes of gambling. Any person who knowingly
permits any premises or property owned or occupied by him or under his control
to be used as a gambling place shall commit the offense of keeping a gambling
place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by a court having jurisdiction to be a
gambling place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such.
      (2)   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the village
authorizing the serving of food or liquor on such premises shall be void and no
license, permit or certificate so cancelled shall be reissued for the premises
until authorized by ordinance or resolution of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES.
   (A)   Every gambling device which is incapable of lawful use is contraband
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by the village.
As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE WHICH IS INCAPABLE OF LAWFUL USE
includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device constructed for
the reception of money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return
on chance to the player thereof money, property or a right to receive money or
property.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the village. Any money or other thing of value integrally related to acts of
gambling shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to the village.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
§ 135.05 PROHIBITION OF VIDEO GAMING WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE
VILLAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 27 of the Video Gaming Act, (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 27)
the village prohibits video gaming within its corporate limits.
(Ord. 2681, passed 11-1-10) Penalty see §
135.99
§ 135.06 RAFFLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
      CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to
benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those
eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
      EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
      FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the
primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens
of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
      LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective
of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
      LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle.
      NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
      NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a
not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a result of
the operation.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, organization, public, or public, or private
corporation, government, partnership, or unincorporated association.
      RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b),
conducted by an organization licensed under this section, in which:
         (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers or by some other means, one or more of which chances is to be
designated as a winning chance;
         (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      RAFFLE ADMINISTRATOR(S). The Village Clerk of Frankfort.
      RAFFLE EVENT. An event at which at least one raffle is conducted by a
licensee.
      RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for
the purpose of religious worship.
      VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
   (B)   Classification of licenses.
      (1)   Class A: General raffle license. A general raffle license shall
permit an organization the ability to conduct a raffle that may include
multiple drawings to award prizes, but all drawings must occur on the same day
and at the same location and within the confines of the same raffle event.
      (2)   Class B: Financial hardship raffle license. A Class B raffle
license allows a not-for-profit fund raising organization or group, organized
for the sole purpose of providing financial hardship assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering severe financial
hardship as a result of an injury, disability, accident, or disaster, to
conduct one raffle event for that purpose.
      (3)   Class C: Annual raffle license. An annual raffle license permits an
organization to regularly conduct raffles as defined herein within 12
consecutive calendar months. Such license shall permit no more than 52 raffle
events per year.
   (C)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
operate a raffle, or to sell, offer for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise
transfer for value a chance on a raffle, unless conduct pursuant to a license
duly issued by the village and in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such license, when issued, is effective for all areas within the
village. Such license is not effective outside the village.
   (D)   Raffle application. Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle
shall file an application therefor with the Village Clerk on forms provided by
the village. Such application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and type of organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager, and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
      (4)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
      (5)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      (6)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      (8)   The area or areas within the village in which raffle chances will
be sold or issued;
      (9)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (10)   The date, time, and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      (11)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
      (12)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct; and
      (13)   A fidelity bond in an amount equal to the aggregate retail value
of all prizes to be awarded shall accompany such application.
   (E)   Licensee qualifications.
      (1)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans’ organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a raffle license and which have had during that entire five-year period a
bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a non-profit
fundraising organization that the licensing authority determines is organized
for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified
individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the
result of an illness, disability, accident, or disaster.
      (2)   The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
         (a)   Any person whose felony conviction will impair the person’s
ability to engage in the licensed position;
         (b)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
         (c)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
         (d)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in division
(E)(2)(a), (b) or (c) of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit
interest, or in which such a person is active or employed;
         (e)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (E)(2)
(a), (b) or (c) of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether
compensated or not; and
         (f)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (E)(2)
(a), (b) or (c) of this section is to participate in the management or
operation of a raffle as defined in this section.
   (F)   License issuance.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall receive all license applications. If an
application is approved, the Village Clerk shall forthwith issue a raffle
license to the applicant. The village shall act on a license application within
30 days from the date of application.
      (2)   A Class A and B raffle license shall be valid for a period of 60
days from and after its issuance. In no event shall a Class C license be
authorized for a period longer than one year.
      (3)   A raffle license shall contain the following:
         (a)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
         (b)   The period of time during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued; and
         (c)   The date, time, and location on or at which the winning chances
will be determined.
      (4)   Such license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the determination of the winning chances.
      (5)   A license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
section.
   (G)   Licensing fees. A license fee of $25 shall be payable to the village
upon submission of a raffle application. When application for a raffle license
is filed, such application fee is nonrefundable, even if the application is
denied or in the event the raffle is cancelled for any reason.
   (H)   Conduct of raffles. The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted
to the lawful purposes of the licensee.
      (2)   No person, except a bona fide member of the licensee may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      (3)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
      (4)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this section.
      (5)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license
and winning chances may be determined only at those locations specified on the
license.
      (6)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where
winning chances in a raffle are being determined only when accompanied by his
or her parent or guardian.
      (7)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $50,000.
      (8)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $50,000.
      (9)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold,
offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value shall
not exceed $150.
      (10)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be sold,
offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value shall
not exceed one year.
      (11)   The sale of raffle chances is only authorized within the borders
of the village.
   (I)   Raffles manager; fidelity bond. All operation of and the conduct of
raffles shall be under the supervision of a single manager designated by the
organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in an amount determined by
the village equal to the amount to the aggregate retail value of all prizes to
be awarded in favor of the organization conditioned upon his honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the village not less than 30 days prior to its
cancellation. The Board of Trustees of the village may waive this bond
requirement by including a waiver provision in the license issued to an
organization under this section, provided that a license containing such waiver
provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the
licensed organization.
   (J)   Records to be kept.
      (1)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances
in a raffle are determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single
gathering or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records
indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other
reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds
shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated
from other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts, if bingo
games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to license
therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois, and
placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall have separate records of its
raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds
from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for
other revenues of the licensee.
      (3)   Each licensee shall report promptly after the conclusion of each
raffle to its membership. Each licensee shall report promptly to the village
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required herein. Each licensee shall
file its records and report with the Village Clerk within 60 days following the
conclusion of the raffle.
      (4)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 3143, passed 4-16-18) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person who commits an offense
as established and defined in this chapter shall be subject to a minimum fine
of not less than $50 and a maximum fine of not more than $750 unless otherwise
specified herein.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of §
135.06 shall constitute a violation, and any person shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each
day in which a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 3143, passed
4-16-18)
CHAPTER 136: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
Model Glue
   
136.01   Definition
   
136.02   Inhalation of glue
   
136.03   Sale or possession of glue
   
136.04   Sale to or possession by minor of glue; records to be kept
Other Drugs and Drug-Related Products
   
136.05   Inhalants
   
136.06   Drugs, needles and syringes
   
136.07   Cannabis/drug paraphernalia
Look-Alike Drugs, Including Synthetic Marijuana and Bath Salts
   
136.20   Definitions
   
136.21   Possession, distribution or sale of controlled substances
   
136.22   Licensee to provide testing sample
   
136.23   Violation by village licensee
 
   
136.99   Penalty
MODEL GLUE
§ 136.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GLUE. Any glue or cement of the type commonly used in the building of model
airplanes, boats and automobiles, containing toluene, acetone or other solvent
or chemical having the property of releasing toxic vapors.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
§ 136.02 INHALATION OF GLUE.
   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication,
euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of the senses or
nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the fumes from any glue; however,
this section shall not apply to the inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 SALE OR POSSESSION OF GLUE.
   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to violate
any provision of this subchapter, intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer
possession or receive possession of any glue.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 SALE TO OR POSSESSION BY MINOR OF GLUE; RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Sale of glue to or possession by minor prohibited.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no person under 18
years of age shall possess or buy any glue.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no person shall
sell or transfer possession of any glue to another person under 18 years of
age.
      (3)   A person may sell or transfer possession of glue to a person under
18 years of age for building or other lawful use where the minor has in his
possession and exhibits the written consent of his parent or guardian.
   (B)   Records of sale and transfer of glue to minor.
      (1)   A person making a sale or transfer of possession of glue to a
person under 18 years of age who exhibits the written consent of his parent or
guardian shall record the name, address, sex and age of the minor and the name
and address of the consenting parent or guardian. All data required by this
section shall be kept in a permanent type register available for inspection by
the Police Department.
      (2)   Any person above the age of 18 years of age making a purchase of
glue must produce identification as to his age and must sign his name and
address on the record of sale.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
136.99
OTHER DRUGS AND DRUG-RELATED PRODUCTS
§ 136.05 INHALANTS.
   (A)   Use prohibited. No person shall ingest, breathe, inhale or drink any
compound, liquid or chemical containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene,
acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, tricholoroethan,
isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone,
the alkaloids atropine, hyoscyamine, or scopolamine, or any other substance for
the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis or irrational behavior, or in any manner changing,
distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual or mental processes. For the
purpose of this Act, any such condition so induced shall be deemed to be an
intoxicated condition.
   (B)   Sale or delivery prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver or give
to any person under 17 years of age, unless upon written order of such person's
parent or guardian, any compound, liquid, or chemical containing toluol,
hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl
ketone, tricholoroethan, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve
acetate, cyclohexanone, or any other substance which will induce an intoxicated
condition, as defined herein, when the seller, offeror, or deliverer knows or
has reason to know that the compound is intended for use to induce such
condition.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver, or give
to any person any compound, liquid, or chemical containing alkaloids atropine,
hyoscyamine, or scopolamine when the seller, offeror, or deliverer knows or has
reason to know that the compound, liquid, or chemical is intended for use to
induce an intoxicated condition.
This chapter shall not apply to any person who commits any act described herein
pursuant to the direction or prescription of a practitioner authorized to so
direct or prescribe. For purposes of this section, practitioner shall mean any
person authorized by law to practice medicine in all its branches in this
state, to practice dentistry in this state, to practice veterinary medicine in
this state, or to practice chiropody in this state.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98)
§ 136.06 DRUGS, NEEDLES AND SYRINGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
different meaning:
      CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish and any other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof, and resin extracted from any part of such
plant, any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis, but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. CANNABIS also means cannabis flower,
concentrate, and cannabis-infused products.
      CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), from the plant
through the use of propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil or other
typical cooking fats; water, ice, or dry ice; or butane, propane, C02, ethanol,
or isopropanol and with the intended use of smoking or making a cannabis-
infused product. The use of any other solvent is expressly prohibited unless
and until it is approved by the Department of Agriculture.
      CANNABIS FLOWER.  Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis;
including raw kief, leaves, and buds, but not resin that has been extracted
from any part of such plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin.
      CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT. A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture,
topical formulation, or another product containing cannabis or cannabis
concentrate that is not intended to be smoked.
      CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. Equipment, products, or materials intended to be
used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance or immediate precursor in the
schedules of Article II of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, being ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 570 §§ 201 through 215, as the same may be, from time to time,
amended, which is herein incorporated by reference.
      EXEMPT PERSON. Includes all persons who may, under the laws of the state
of Illinois lawfully sell, offer for sale, deliver, dispense, distribute and
possess, as the case may be, controlled substances, cannabis and/or hypodermic
syringes and hypodermic needles.
      HYPODERMIC SYRINGE AND HYPODERMIC NEEDLES Include, in addition to their
ordinary dictionary meanings, any instrument adapted for the use of controlled
substances or cannabis by subcutaneous injection.
   (B)   Sale of drugs, syringes and needles prohibited. No person, other than
an exempt person, shall sell, offer for sale, dispense, deliver, distribute or
possess any controlled substance, hypodermic syringes and/or hypodermic needles
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   Possession of cannabis. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to
possess more than 30 grams of cannabis flower, 500 milligrams of THC contained
in cannabis-infused product, or five grams of cannabis concentrate. It is
unlawful for any person who is 21 years of age or older and who is not a
resident of this State to possess more than 15 grams of cannabis flower, 2.5
grams of cannabis concentrate, or 250 milligrams of THC contained in a
cannabis-infused product. Any person in violation of this section shall be
fined not less than $350.
   (D)   Possession of Cannabis Under 21 Prohibited. No person under the age of
21 years old shall possess cannabis, its concentrate, or derivative in any
form. Any person in violation of this section shall be fined not less than $250
for possessing up to 30 grams of cannabis and not less than $500 for possessing
up to 100 grams of cannabis.
   (E)   Possession in specific locations prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall possess cannabis, its concentrate, or derivative in
any form, in any of the following places:
         (a)   School bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
         (c)   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         (d)   In private residences which are used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care.
      (2)   Any person in violation of this division (E) shall be fined not
less than $500.
   (F)   Consumption of cannabis under 21 prohibited. No person under the age
of 21 years old shall consume cannabis, its concentrate, or derivative in any
form. Any person in violation of this division (F) shall be fined not less than
$250.
   (G)   Consumption in specific locations prohibited. 
      (1)   No person shall use or otherwise consume cannabis in any form in
any of the following places:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In any motor vehicle;
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
         (f)   In any public place; or
         (g)   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years
of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
      (2)   Any person in violation of this division (G) shall be fined not
less than $500.
   (H)   Sale of cannabis. No person, corporation, or entity of any kind shall
sell, distribute, or transfer cannabis to any person under the age of 21. Any
person in violation of this division (H) shall be fined not less than $500,
and, when applicable, shall constitute grounds for revocation and/or suspension
of any and all village licenses issued to the persons/premises where the
violations occur. The revocation or suspension shall be provided for in the
ordinance granting the license.
   (I)   Transfer of cannabis. It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, or entity to transfer, sell, or offer for sale cannabis, its
concentrate, or derivative in any form without an Illinois Cannabis Retailers
Certificate of Registration or otherwise contrary to the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act or Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act. Any person in
violation of this division (I) shall be fined not less than $500, and, when
applicable, shall constitute grounds for revocation and/or suspension of any
and all village licenses issued to the persons/premises where the violations
occur. The revocation or suspension shall be provided for in the ordinance
granting the license.
   (J)   Cultivation of cannabis. Cultivation of any form of cannabis is
prohibited except as when such cultivation is in compliance with Section 10-5
(b) of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, § 10-5). Any
person in violation of this division (J) shall be fined not less than $200.
   (K)   Possession in violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 8. It is unlawful
for any person knowingly to produce the Cannabis sativa plant or to possess
such plants unless production or possession is authorized by Section 11 or 15.2
of the Cannabis Control Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 11 and 15.2). Any person
who violates this division (K) with respect to production or possession of not
more than 5 plants is guilty of a civil violation punishable by a minimum fine
of $ 100 and a maximum fine of $200.
   (L)   Exempt persons. All persons who may, under the Illinois Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act and Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, lawfully sell, offer for sale, deliver, dispense, distribute, and possess
cannabis, are exempt from the penalties under this Code to the extent such
conduct is allowed under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act and Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
(Ord. 3260, passed 9-21-20)
§ 136.07 CANNABIS/DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. Equipment, products, or materials intended to be
used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act and cannabis
paraphernalia as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the Methamphetamine Control and Community
Protection Act or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation of
the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing a controlled
substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
         (d)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting a controlled substance by private persons;
         (e)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing cocaine or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug
in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act into the human body
including, where applicable, the following items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs;
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers;
         (f)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act.
         (g)   A court, in determining whether an object is CANNABIS
PARAPHERNALIA or DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, shall consider the following factors:
            1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
            2.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
            3.   The proximity of the object to cannabis or a controlled
substance;
            4.   The existence of any residue of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the object;
            5.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner,
or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of this chapter; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use as drug
paraphernalia;
            6.   Instruction, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
            7.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
            8.   National and local advertising concerning the use or intended
use of the object; and information contained in sales catalogues of which
supplier has knowledge concerning use of the object;
            9.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
            10.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as licensed
distributor of tobacco products;
            11.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of
the objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
            12.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in
the community;
            13.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (B)   Possession and sale of drug and cannabis paraphernalia.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an item of
drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the human body, or in
preparing a controlled substance for that use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or deliver, or possess
with intent to sell or deliver, any drug paraphernalia, knowing or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used for
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the
human body, or in preparing a controlled substance for that use.
      (3)   No person under the age of 21 years old shall possess cannabis
paraphernalia. Any person in violation of this section shall be fined not less
than $250.
   (C)   Delivering drug paraphernalia to minors prohibited. Any person 18
years of age or older who violates this Section by delivering drug
paraphernalia to a person under eighteen (18), shall, upon a finding of guilty,
be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750.
   (D)   Exempt persons. Nothing in this section shall limit the lawful
authority granted to:
      (1)   Persons who are authorized by ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.
(Cannabis Control Act), to deal with cannabis;
      (2)   Persons registered under federal law to conduct research with
cannabis;
      (3)   Persons authorized by ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.
(Controlled Substance Act), to deal with controlled substances; and
      (4)   Authorized law enforcement personnel while in the course of their
duties.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98; Am. Ord. 3260, passed 9-21-20) Penalty, see §
136.99
LOOK-ALIKE DRUGS, INCLUDING SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA AND BATH SALTS
§ 136.20 DEFINITIONS. 
   The definitions contained in the Cannabis Control Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act
550, §§ 1 et seq.) and the Illinois Controlled Substance Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act
570, §§ 1 et seq.) apply to this subchapter.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATH SALTS. Any product whether disbursed as incense, potpourri, plant
fertilizers, insect repellants, salts or BATH SALTS, which contain any of the
following chemicals:
      (1)   JSW-018, JWG-200, JWH-073, CP-47, 497, Cannabicyclohexanol, 3.4
Methylenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV), Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-
Methoxymethcathinone, 4-Fluoromethcathinone, and 3-Fluromethcathinone;
      (2)   Synthetic derivatives of cathinone and cathinone substitutes,
including pentedrone;
      (3)   Any other non-prescription substance, regardless of form, that has
a chemical substance and/or pharmacological effect similar to that derived from
the effect intended to be delivered from the ingestion of those substances
defined in this subchapter; and
      (4)   Such other definitions given the term under Illinois law.
   SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA. Any product or substance, whether described as tobacco,
potpourri, herbs, incense, spice, aromatic, or any combination thereof, and
intended for the purpose of being smoked or otherwise ingested, which includes
one or more of the following hallucinogenic substances:
      (1)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole; some trade or other names: JWF-
0I8; or
      (2)   1-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole; some trade or other names: JWH-073;
or
      (3)   1-[2-(4-morpholinyl) ethyl]-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole; some trade or
other names: JWH-200; or
      (4)   5-(1,1-dimethylheptyl-2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol; some
trade or other names: CP-47,497; or
      (5)   5-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol
(cannabicyclohexanol); some other trade or other names; cannabicyclohexanol;
CP-47,497 C8 homologue; or
      (6)   Any other non-prescription substance that has a chemical structure
and/or pharmacological effect substantially similar to the active ingredient of
marijuana, or tetrahydrocannabinol (THC); or
      (7)   Such other definitions given the term under Illinois law.
(Ord. 2763, passed 1-23-12)
§ 136.21 POSSESSION, DISTRIBUTION, SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   Unless otherwise authorized or permitted by law, no person shall possess,
distribute, display, market, sell, exchange, offer or use:
   (A)   Any substance, including but not limited to, those substances which
are controlled, prohibited or regulated under or subject to the Illinois
Controlled Substance Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 1 et seq.) or the Cannabis
Control Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.);
   (B)   Synthetic marijuana or bath salts;
   (C)   Any non-prescriptive substance that has a chemical structure and or
psychological effect on a person similar to the active ingredients contained in
any substance controlled or regulated under federal or state laws or
regulations, including the Illinois Controlled Substance Act and the Cannabis
Control Act.
(Ord. 2763, passed 1-23-12) Penalty, see § 136.99
§ 136.22 LICENSEE TO PROVIDE TESTING SAMPLE.
   At the request of the village, a person or entity issued a license from the
village who is not otherwise authorized by law to possess the substance, shall
immediately provide the Village Police Department with sample(s) of any
substance(s) that there is a reasonable cause to believe is within the
provisions of this subchapter. The village shall provide the licensee with a
copy of the results of any tests conducted on the substance.
(Ord. 2763, passed 1-23-12) Penalty, see § 136.99
§ 136.23 VIOLATION BY VILLAGE LICENSEE.
   Any violation of this subchapter by a person, business or any other entity
licensed by the village will result in the suspension or revocation of their
license.
(Ord. 2763, passed 1-23-12)
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this
chapter for which another penalty is not provided shall be subject to a minimum
fine of not less than $50 and a maximum fine of not more than $750 unless
otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
136.06 for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1736, passed 4-
5-98; Am. Ord. 3260, passed 9-21-20)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
136.07 for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1736, passed 4-5-98; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
   (D)   In addition to, and not in lieu of, any other penalties provided under
the laws of the State of Illinois or any other remedies available at law or
equity, any person or entity convicted of violating §§
136.20 et seq. shall pay a fine of not less than $500 nor more than permitted
by law, with each day a violation continues to exist constituting a separate
and distinct offense. (Am. Ord. 2763, passed 1-23-12)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Discharge of firearms
   
137.03   Discharge of toy firearms
   
137.04   Brandishing or concealing dangerous weapons
   
137.05   Exemption
 
   
137.99   Penalty
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Shall have the meaning as defined in § 1.1 of the Firearm Owners
Identification Card Act, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, § 1.1.
   HANDGUN. Shall have the meaning as defined in § 5 of the Firearms Concealed
Carry Act, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 66, § 5.
(Ord. 2897, passed 3-17-14)
§ 137.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other firearm within
the village, except upon premises used by a duly licensed shooting gallery, gun
club or rifle club.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.03 DISCHARGE OF TOY FIREARMS.
   No person shall at any time discharge or set off anywhere within the village
or have in his possession for such a purpose any toy firearm, air rifle, toy
cannon or any gun which discharges projectiles either by air, spring, explosive
substance or any other force.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.04 BRANDISHING OR CONCEALING DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry in a threatening or
menacing manner, without authority of law, any pistol, revolver, dagger, razor,
dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles, slingshot or any object containing noxious
or deleterious liquid, gas or substance or other dangerous weapon, or any
device manufactured and designed to be substantially similar in appearance or
conceal the weapon on or about the person or vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall carry upon or about his person any pistol, revolver,
derringer, Bowie knife, dirk, slingshot, knuckles of lead, brass or other metal
or any other deadly weapon capable of being secreted upon the person.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.05 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to duly constituted
peace officers while engaged in the discharge of their official duties.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter as it relates to carrying a handgun
shall not apply to a person who is a licensee under and whose weapon, activity
and conduct is in conformance with the Firearm Concealed Cary Act, ILCS Ch.
430, Act 66, §§ 1 et seq., and Illinois law.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 2897, passed 3-17-14)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as established and defined in this chapter
shall be subject to a minimum fine of not less than $50 and a maximum fine of
not more than $750 unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 4-15-74; Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
CHAPTER 138: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Smoking prohibited
   
138.03   Posting of signs; removal of ashtrays
   
138.04   Outdoor patios
   
138.05   Responsibilities
   
138.06   Exemptions
   
138.07   Discrimination prohibited
   
138.08   Enforcement; complaints
 
   
138.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Smoking on public conveyances, see §
132.03
   Tobacco regulations, see
Ch. 119
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHTRAY. Any receptacle that is designed for disposing of the debris from
smoking materials, including but not limited to, ash, cigar stubs or cigarette
butts or filters.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than 10% of
its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the premises. BAR includes
but is not limited to taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, brew pubs,
saloons, microbreweries, adult entertainment facilities and cabarets.
   CLEARLY AND CONSPICUOUSLY. Signage designed so that letters, numbers and
symbols are of sufficient size to be clearly legible and visible to an
individual of normal vision from a distance of five feet.
   CONTIGUOUS AREA. A place that is:
      (1)   Physically attached to a non-vehicle public place or place of
employment; or
      (2)   Separated from a non-vehicle public place or place of employment
only by other places controlled by the proprietor of the public place or place
of employment
   CONTROLLED. Under the authority and responsibility of a proprietor.
   DRIFT. The physical movement of smoke, regardless of cause, into any area
where smoking is prohibited.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association or corporation,
including but not limited to a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit
entity, that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with (i) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, or
(ii) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including but not limited to lobbies and
corridors.
   ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA. Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational or
other events.
   ENTRANCE or EXIT. Any doorway in a building or facility that is used by an
individual for ingress from or egress to the outdoors.
   GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES. Gaming equipment/supplies as defined in the
Illinois Gaming Board Rules of the Illinois Administrative Code.
   GAMING FACILITY. An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of
gaming and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
   HEALTHCARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including but not limited to
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes and
long-term care facilities, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists and all specialists within these professions. HEALTHCARE FACILITY
includes but is not limited to all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms,
semiprivate rooms and wards within healthcare facilities.
   IDPH. The Illinois Department of Public Health.
   INFILTRATE. The transit or movement of smoke from one enclosed area to
another, regardless of cause, including but not limited to movement of smoke
induced or caused by changes in air flow.
   OUTDOOR PATIO. An area that either (i) is enclosed by a roof or other
overhead covering and walls or side coverings on not more than two sides or
(ii) has no roof or other overhead coverings regardless of the number of walls,
fences or other side coverings. OUTDOOR PATIO includes but is not limited to
beer gardens or other outdoor seating.
   OUTDOOR PATIO PATRON. An individual who is occupying an outdoor patio.
   PERMEABLE. Permitting smoke to pass through.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave or pass through during the
course of employment, including but not limited to entrances and exits to
places of employment, including but not limited to offices and work areas;
restrooms, conference and classrooms, break rooms and cafeterias and other
common areas. A private residence or home-based business, unless used to
provide licensed child care, foster care, adult care or other similar social
service care on the premises, is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.
   PRIVATE CLUB.
      (1)   A not-for-profit association that:
         (a)   Has been in active and continuous existence for at least three
years prior to January 1, 2008, whether incorporated or not;
         (b)   Is the owner, lessee or occupant of a building or portion
thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times;
         (c)   Is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social,
patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary
gain; and
         (d)   Only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, PRIVATE CLUB means an organization
that is managed by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body
chosen by the members at an annual meeting, has established bylaws, a
constitution or both to govern its activities and has been granted an exemption
from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. § 501.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE. The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including but
not limited to a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile home,
vacation home, cabin or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a hotel,
motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home or long-term care facility, assisted
living facility or student dormitory shall not be considered a PRIVATE
RESIDENCE.
   PROPRIETOR. An owner, operator, manager, occupant, lessee or other
individual in control of a public place or a place of employment.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   That portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to the
public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or in
part by private persons or entities, the State of Illinois or any other public
entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission.
      (2)   A PUBLIC PLACE does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster care or other
similar social service care on the premises.
      (3)   A PUBLIC PLACE includes but is not limited to hospitals,
restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial establishments, elevators,
indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls, public conveyances,
educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums, enclosed or partially
enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools, exhibition halls, convention
facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming facilities, all government
owned vehicles and facilities, including but not limited to buildings and
vehicles owned, leased or operated by the state or state subcontract,
healthcare facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service
establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas,
public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars,
taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas and no less than 75% of
the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel, resort, inn, lodge, bed and
breakfast or other similar public accommodation that are rented to guests, but
excludes private residences.
      (4)   A PUBLIC PLACE also includes but is not limited to any portion of
the living quarters, including but not limited to sleeping rooms, dining areas,
restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies and hallways, of a building used in whole or
in part as a student dormitory that is owned and operated or otherwise utilized
by a public or private institution of higher education.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   (a)   An eating establishment, including but not limited to coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands and private and public school cafeterias,
that gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees; and
         (b)   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.
      (2)   RESTAURANT includes but is not limited to a bar area within the
restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than 80% of
its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs and cigars,
cigarettes, pipes and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and related
smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department or
section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment with any type
of liquor, food or restaurant license.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Smoking is defined as inhaling, exhaling, burning,
vaporizing, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, hookah, cigarette, pipe,
or any other lighted or heated tobacco, plant product, liquid or any other
substance intended for inhalation, including but not limited to tobacco,
nicotine, marijuana, any other substance whether natural or synthetic, in any
manner or in any form. Smoking also includes the use of an electronic
cigarettes, vaporizer, or similar device.
   SMOKING PRODUCTS AND ACCESSORIES. Smoking materials, including but not
limited to cigars, cigarettes or pipe tobacco, and smoking-related materials,
including but not limited to ashtrays, lighters, humidors, pipes or cigarette
cases.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 3257, passed 8-17-20)
§ 138.02 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in any public place or in any place of
employment.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer,
owner, occupant, lessee, operator, manager or other person in control of any
public place or place of employment may designate a non-enclosed area of a
public place or place of employment, including but not limited to outdoor
areas, as an area where smoking is also prohibited, provided that such
employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall conspicuously post signs prohibiting
smoking in the manner described in §
138.03.
   (C)   Smoking is prohibited within a minimum distance of 15 feet from
entrances, exits, windows that open and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under this chapter. Smoking is
further prohibited within a minimum distance of 15 feet from any non-enclosed
area where smoking is prohibited pursuant to division (B) above.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.03 POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
   (B)   To meet the requirements of division (A) above, a proprietor of a
public place or place of employment shall post signs that:
      (1)   Are no smaller than five inches by seven inches; and
      (2)   Contain the international “No Smoking” symbol or the words “No
Smoking;” the telephone number designated by the IDPH for registering
complaints; the IDPH’s website for obtaining the complaint form; and letters,
numbers and symbols of sufficient size to be clearly legible to an individual
of normal vision from a distance of five feet.
   (C)   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign, in
compliance with division (B) above, clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (D)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area. A proprietor may store ashtrays and other
receptacles used for disposing of smoking materials in a location within an
area where smoking is prohibited if the location has no public access and the
location is used primarily for storage purposes.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.04 OUTDOOR PATIOS.
   (A)   A proprietor may designate an area as an outdoor patio where smoking
is permitted only if the area:
      (1)   Is 15 feet or more from entrances, exists, windows that open and
ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited;
      (2)   Is a contiguous area of a public place or place of employment;
      (3)   Is controlled by the proprietor of the public place or place of
employment;
      (4)   Has at least one side that consists of open space, permeable
material, a combination of open space and permeable material or a combination
of open space, permeable material and a non-permeable wall; and
      (5)   Has, if all walls are non-permeable, no overhead covering or an
overhead covering that consists of permeable material or a combination of open
space and permeable material.
   (B)   If an outdoor patio where smoking is permitted has a doorway that
provides access from an enclosed area to the patio for outdoor patio patrons
and does not have a wall that prevents individuals from entering the outdoor
patio, the proprietor shall:
      (1)   Inform individuals that the doorway is not an entrance to the
enclosed area but is a doorway for outdoor patio patrons; and
      (2)   Direct individuals who are not outdoor patio patrons to an entrance
to the enclosed area.
   (C)   A proprietor may designate smoking and nonsmoking sections of an
outdoor patio only if the smoking section is clearly and conspicuously
separated from the nonsmoking section and if the smoking area is at least 15
feet away from the entrances, exits, windows that open and ventilation intakes.
   (D)   The proprietor shall not permit tobacco smoke to drift or infiltrate
into areas where smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.05 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Individual responsibilities.
      (1)   An individual shall not smoke in an area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter.
      (2)   An individual in an area where smoking is prohibited shall stop
smoking immediately when requested to stop smoking by the proprietor of the
public place or place of employment.
   (B)   Proprietor responsibilities.
      (1)   A proprietor shall:
         (a)   Not permit smoking in an area where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter;
         (b)   Not permit smoke to drift or infiltrate into a building or
facility through an entrance, a window, a ventilation system or other means;
         (c)   Post signs and remove ashtrays according to §
138.03;
         (d)   Communicate that smoking is prohibited in a place of employment
to all existing employees and, at the time of application, all applicants for
employment.
      (2)   If a building or facility that is controlled by a proprietor
contains several places of employment or public places that are controlled by
other proprietors:
         (a)   The proprietor of the entire building or facility shall comply
with the requirements of division (B)(l) for the area controlled by the
proprietor of the place of employment or public place.
         (b)   The proprietor of each place of employment or public place shall
comply with the requirements in division (B)(l) for the area controlled by the
proprietor of the place of employment or public place.
      (3)   If an individual in an area controlled by a proprietor is smoking
in violation of this chapter, the proprietor shall inform the individual that
he or she is in violation of the this chapter and request that the individual
stop smoking immediately.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner retaliate
against any individual for exercising any right, including but not limited to
reporting a violation, or performing any obligation under this chapter.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is allowed in
the following areas:
   (A)   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a child
care, adult day care or healthcare facility or any other home-based business
open to the public.
   (B)   Retail tobacco stores in operation prior to January 1, 2008. The
retail tobacco store shall annually file with the IDPH by January 31 an
affidavit stating the percentage of its gross income during the prior calendar
year that was derived from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs and
cigars, cigarettes, pipes or other smoking devices for smoking tobacco and
related smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that begins operation
after January 1, 2008 may only qualify for an exemption if located in a
freestanding structure occupied solely by the business and smoke from the
business does not migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking
is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the nursing
home. In exercising this exemption, the nursing home or long-term care facility
shall ensure that any rooms designated for smoking also comply with the
statutes, ordinances and administrative rules under which the home or facility
is licensed and the fire protection and life safety codes incorporated by
reference therein. Nothing in this section shall require a nursing home or
long-term care facility that is smoke free to designate a smoking area within
the facility.
   (D)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than 25%
of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be designated as rooms
where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not
be changed, except to permanently add additional nonsmoking rooms.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.07 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No individual may be discriminated against in any manner because of the
exercise of any rights afforded by this chapter. No person or employer shall
discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner retaliate against an employee,
applicant for employment or customer because that employee, applicant or
customer exercises any rights afforded by this chapter or reports or attempts
to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.08 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   The village Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
and may assess fines pursuant to §
138.99. Any person may register a complaint with the village Police Department
for a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity who
violates this chapter shall be fined and/or enjoined pursuant to this section.
Each day that a violation occurs is a separate violation.
   (B)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under this
chapter shall be fined in an amount that is not less than $100 and not more
than $250. In determining the amount of the fine, the village will consider the
type(s) of violation(s) committed, past violations documented and whether
payment was received from past violations, if applicable.
   (C)   (1)   A person who owns, operates or otherwise controls a public place
or place of employment who violates this chapter shall be fined:
         (a)   Not less than $250 for the first violation;
         (b)   Not less than $500 for the second violation within one year
after the first violation; and
         (c)   Not less than $2,500 for each additional violation within one
year after the first violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the fine, the village will consider
the type(s) of violation(s) committed, past violations documented and whether
payment was received from past violations, if applicable.
   (D)   In addition to any fine provided in this section, the village may
institute, in a circuit court, an action to enjoin violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2429, passed 12-3-07)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD REGULATIONS
      
153.   DEDICATION OF SCHOOL AND PARK SITES
      
154.   HISTORIC DISTRICT
      
155.   LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING CODE
      
157.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
158.   LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX A:   OVERSTORY TREES
         
APPENDIX B:   UNDERSTORY TREES
         
APPENDIX C:   STREET TREES
         
APPENDIX D:   EVERGREEN TREES
         
APPENDIX E:   PRESERVATION TREES
         
APPENDIX F:   STORMWATER DETENTION/RETENTION TREES
         
APPENDIX G:   UNACCEPTABLE TREES
      
159.   LOW INTEREST LOAN PROGRAM FOR COMMERCIAL IMPROVEMENTS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Construction of buildings in districts zoned for commercial or
industrial use
   
150.02   Construction of entrance to lots adjoining property zoned for
commercial, public or industrial use
   
150.03   Restricting construction, placement or location of certain structures
upon land zoned for other than industrial purposes; exception
   
150.04   Buildings required to display numerical addresses
   
150.05   Improvement of parking facilities
Adoption of Certain Standards
   
150.20   Adoption of the 2012 International Residential Code for One and Two
Family Dwellings
   
150.21   Adoption of the 2012 International Building Code
   
150.22   Adoption of the 2014 Illinois State Plumbing Code
   
150.23   Adoption of the 2012 International Mechanical Code
   
150.24   Adoption of the 2015 International Energy Conservation Code
   
150.25   Adoption of the 2012 International Fire Code
   
150.26   Adoption of the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.27   Adoption of the 2011 National Electrical Code
   
150.28   Adoption of the 2012 International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.29   Construction using most restrictive provisions
   
150.30   Adoption of elevator safety codes
Fees and Charges
   
150.40   Building permit and inspection fees
   
150.41   Development review fee schedule
Contractors
   
150.50   Definitions
   
150.51   License required
   
150.52   License application
   
150.53   License fees and bonds
   
150.54   Liability insurance required
   
150.55   Issuance of license
   
150.56   General contractor’s license
   
150.57   Performance of certain duties required
   
150.58   License revocation; reinstatement
Administration
   
150.70   Administrative inspection procedure for all buildings and structures
Grading and Landscaping
   
150.75   Grading procedures
   
150.76   Landscaping permit requirement
   150.77   Demolition permit requirements
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS IN DISTRICTS ZONED FOR COMMERCIAL OR
INDUSTRIAL USE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   FRONT ELEVATION. Those side portions of a structure which face or
are contiguous with a public street, thoroughfare or way.
      (2)   GLASS. All windows and entry doors together with frame for same.
      (3)   SIDE ELEVATION. That portion or portions of a structure which do
not face or are not contiguous with a public street, thoroughfare or way.
      (4)   SOLID FINISH VENEER. Brick or stone. This does not include
materials such as, but not limited to, painted or unpainted plain concrete or
plain concrete blocks, plywood, wood veneers or imitation type materials of any
nature.
   (B)   Any buildings or improvements constructed on any real property zoned
or classified as commercial or industrial under the official zoning map of the
village and its zoning ordinance shall comply with all terms and provisions of
this section.
   (C)   All building or improvements designed or intended to be constructed on
any commercial or industrial zoned property shall have:
      (1)   A continuous poured concrete footing extending to a depth below the
standard frost line of 42 inches together with a continuous concrete foundation
wall which shall support all structural members of the building. Such
foundation and footing shall meet the B.O.C.A. specifications;
      (2)   A minimum 18-inch roof overhang on all front elevations; and
      (3)   One hundred percent of the total surface area of the front
elevation constructed of solid finish veneer and glass.
   (D)   On commercial or industrial zoned property an auxiliary building, as
that term is defined in the zoning ordinance of the village, which is set back
a minimum of 200 feet from the front lot line with the total front yard
landscaped with grass, trees, bushes, shrubs, and the like, may have the solid
finish veneer and glass requirement reduced by action of the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   No building permit or occupancy permit shall be issued for any
building on property zoned commercial or industrial until the provisions of
this section and all relative ordinances are met.
(Ord. 1126, passed 11-19-84) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 CONSTRUCTION OF ENTRANCE TO LOTS ADJOINING PROPERTY ZONED FOR
COMMERCIAL, PUBLIC OR INDUSTRIAL USE.
   (A)   The owners of any lots or parcels of real property within the village,
zoned for public or commercial use, shall prior to commencement of any
construction or building of any new or additional improvements thereon, which
includes but is not limited to any excavation or earthwork, construct or cause
to be constructed an entrance to and from any road that may be adjacent
thereto, which entrance shall conform to the standards marked “Exhibit A”
[attached to Ord. 1083] and shall be adopted by reference thereto and
specifically made a part hereof, the same being the Village Standard Entrance
Details for Commercial Lots.
   (B)   The owners of any lots or parcels of real property within the village,
zoned for public or industrial use, shall prior to commencement of any
construction or building of any new or additional improvements thereon, which
includes but is not limited to any excavation or earthwork, construct or cause
to be constructed an entrance to and from any road that may be adjacent
thereto, which entrance shall conform to the standards marked “Exhibit B”
[attached to Ord. 1083] and shall be adopted by reference thereto and
specifically made a part hereof, the same being the Village Standard Entrance
Details for Industrial Lots.
   (C)   Any person who shall hereafter desire to construct or reconstruct for
a commercial or industrial zoned lot or parcel of real property, an entrance to
and from an existing lot, shall construct same in accordance with the
applicable standard entrance details stated in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section.
   (D)   In addition to any other requirements contained herein, the applicant
shall, at the time of securing a building permit and prior to the commencement
of any building construction or work upon the building site, give a letter of
credit or a corporate surety bond with a bonding company being acceptable to
the village and authorized to conduct business in the state payable to the
village in an amount not less than $5,000 conditioned upon the timely and
faithful performance of all requirements and conditions of this section. Said
bond shall be released by the village upon completion, approval of work, and if
applicable, acceptance of the work required under this ordinance by the
village.
(Ord. 1083, passed 8-16-82) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 RESTRICTING CONSTRUCTION, PLACEMENT OR LOCATION OF CERTAIN STRUCTURES
UPON LAND ZONED FOR OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL PURPOSES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No mobile trailer or temporary, nonpermanent type structure shall be
erected, moved, placed or located upon a lot or parcel of land within the
village for the purpose of utilizing the same as an office or similar type
business use, unless said lot or parcel of land is zoned and classified for
industrial purposes.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to such a structure
upon a lot or parcel of land being utilized as an office or similar business
use for the purpose of constructing improvements upon the lot or parcel of land
upon which it is situated.
(Ord. 868, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 BUILDINGS REQUIRED TO DISPLAY NUMERICAL ADDRESSES.
   All principal buildings in all zoning districts within the corporate limits
of the village shall prominently and conspicuously post and display the correct
numerical address. The numbers shall be displayed either on the building or
posted at the front entry to the property so that such street number is clearly
visible and of such size that it is easily identifiable from the street
abutting such front yard.
(Ord. 1170, passed 10-6-86) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 IMPROVEMENT OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hard surfaces required.
      (1)   All new industrial facilities must improve all parking surfaces
with an acceptable bituminous asphalt or concrete material and comply with the
design standards of this section.
      (2)   To assure installation of an acceptable bituminous asphalt or
concrete surface and full compliance with the other design requirements of this
section, a parking lot permit must be obtained from the village prior to the
issuance of any occupancy permit for the use of an existing industrial facility
adjoining or adjacent to any residential area or zoned district.
   (B)   Parking lot design standards.
      (1)   The design and construction of all industrial parking facilities
shall meet all the technical requirements contained herein.
      (2)   Construction standards for all required industrial parking lots
shall meet or exceed the load requirement of its designated use.
      (3)   All pavement edges must be enclosed with concrete curbing which
will meet the minimum requirements for curb construction outlined in the
village’s design standards.
      (4)   All driveways and approaches must meet the requirements outlined in
the village’s design standards.
(Ord. 1535, passed 9-18-95) Penalty, see §
150.99
ADOPTION OF CERTAIN STANDARDS
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE AND TWO
FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   The 2012 Edition of the International Residential Code for One and Two
Family Dwellings, first edition, published by the International Code Council,
Inc., be and is hereby adopted as a Residential Building Code of the village
for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided; and each and
all of the regulations, provisions, conditions, and terms of the 2012
International Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings are hereby
referred to, adopted by reference and made a part hereof as if fully set out in
this subchapter, except with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes
to such Code as follows:
   (A)   Section R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the
Residential Codes for One and Two-Family Dwellings of the Village of Frankfort,
and shall be sited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
   (B)   Section R102.5 Appendices. Hereby adopted.
      Appendix A   SIZING AND CAPACITIES OF GAS PIPING
      Appendix B   SIZING OF VENTING SYSTEMS SERVING APPLIANCES EQUIPPED WITH
DRAFT HOODS, CATEGORY I APPLIANCES, AND APPLIANCES LISTED FOR USE AND TYPE B
VENTS
      Appendix C   EXIT TERMINALS OF MECHANICAL DRAFT AND DIRECT VENT VENTING
SYSTEMS
      Appendix F   RADON CONTROL METHODS
      Appendix G   SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS. Delete the following
sections under Section AG105 Barrier Requirements:
                  Section 9.1. Delete this provision in its entirety.
                  Section 10.1. Delete this provision in its entirety.
      Appendix H   PATIO COVERS
      Appendix J   EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
   (C)   Section R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit. Delete this section in its
entirety:
      Building, Electrical, Gas and Mechanical.
   (D)   Section Rl05.3 Application for Permit. Add the following to the list
of application requirements:
      8.   Three sets of all drawings for a project shall be prepared, signed
and sealed by an architect licensed in the State of Illinois, and submitted to
the village for review with application.
      9.   Include window and sliding glass door energy conservation
information, R and U Values.
      10.   Include HVAC heating and cooling load calculations.
   (E)   Section Rl05.5 Expiration. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Delete one hundred eighty (180) days in this section and replace it with
ninety (90) days.
   (F)   Section 108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. Hereby amended to read as
follows:
      Fee Schedule. A fee for each plan examination, building permit and
inspections shall be paid in accordance with the schedule as set forth in
applicable village ordinances, including Ordinance Nos. 1347 and 1449 entitled,
“An Ordinance Amending Building Permit Fees and Inspection Charges for the
Village of Frankfort, Will County, Illinois,” as it now exists or from time to
time is amended.
   (G)   Section R109.1 Types of Inspections.  Hereby amended to read as
follows:
      1.   INITIAL ON-SITE SEDIMENT CONTROL INSPECTION
         A.   Sediment and erosion control measures must be installed and
maintained during the duration of the entire project in accordance with the
applicable village ordinances, including Village of Frankfort Design Standards,
Ordinance No. 2487, as from time to time amended.
      2.   FOOTING INSPECTIONS
         1.   Inspections required prior to placement of concrete.
         2.   If poor soil conditions exist, Illinois state-licensed
professional engineer will be required to provide a signed and sealed written
determination, and inspection prior to placement of concrete.
         3.   Installation of stone drive.
      3.   FOUNDATION INSPECTION
         1.   Inspection of concrete forms in-place prior to any concrete being
poured.
         2.   Reinforcing steel in-place.
         3.   Forms centered on footing.
         4.   Installation of stone drive.
      4.   FOUNDATION BACKFILL INSPECTION
            a.   Dampproofing in-place.
            b.   Drain tile in-place.
            c.   Anchor bolt installation and location.
            d.   Upon approval of the drain tile inspection, the foundation can
be backfilled. The Building Department will permit construction of the deck
over the basement or crawlspace areas only, prior to or after backfilling. This
will help provide extra safety at the job site and structural integrity to the
foundation.
            e.   Submit spot survey (top of foundation elevation and all
setback dimensions).
            f.   Sediment control inspection.
      5.   UNDERGROUND PLUMBING INSPECTION
         A.   Basement Floor - inspection necessary prior to placement of
concrete.
      6.   SANITARY SEWER & WATER INSPECTION
      7.   ROUGH ELECTRIC INSPECTION
      8.   ROUGH PLUMBING INSPECTION
      9.   ROUGH MECHANICAL INSPECTION
      10.   ROUGH BUILDING INSPECTION
         A.   No insulation may be installed until the rough inspections have
been approved.
      11.   INSULATION INSPECTION
         A.   No wall/ceiling coverings may be applied until an insulation
inspection has been performed and approved by the village.
      12.   MASONRY THRU-WALL “SILL” FLASHING AND WINDOW FLASHING INSPECTION
         A.   Prior to the installation of brick veneer, or stone.
      13.   CONCRETE FLAT WORK INSPECTION
         A.   Basement floors
         B.   Garage floors
         C.   Patios and stoops
         D.   Driveways
         E.   Sidewalks and service walks
      14.   EXTERIOR INSULATION FINISH SYSTEM INSPECTION
         The following inspections shall be required for all E.I.F.S.
installation:
         A.   Substrate/flashing inspections
         B.   E.P.S. board inspection
         C.   Base coat application inspection
         D.   Final inspection
         E.   The installer must adhere to all manufacturers’ requirements for
installation, and include a drainage system or equivalent.
      15.   FINAL PLUMBING INSPECTION
      16.   FINAL ELECTRIC INSPECTION
      17.   FINAL MECHANICAL INSPECTION
      18.   FINAL BUILDING INSPECTION
      19.   FINAL GRADE INSPECTION
         A.   Erosion control methods installed.
      20.   ASPHALT INSPECTION (Minimum Standards)
         A.   Residential driveway apron (public R.O.W.)
            4" compacted asphalt
            8" compacted crushed stone CA-6, Grade 8
         B.   Residential driveway
            2-1/2" asphalt
            8" compacted crushed stone CA-6, Grade 8
      21.   LANDSCAPE PERMIT INSPECTION (per applicable village ordinances,
including Ordinance No.. 2341, as from time to time amended):
         A.   Provide complete landscaping plans.
         B.   Indicate foundation and all top of grade elevations.
         C.   Provide drawing showing the location of all lawn sprinkler heads
on final plat of survey.
   (H)   Section R109.1-1 Requests for Inspections is added as follows:
      A.   CONCRETE INSPECTIONS. The owner or contractor shall call a request
for an inspection into the Building Department at least 24 hours prior to the
requested inspection. All forms and/or concrete will be inspected prior to the
placement.
      B.   BUILDING INSPECTIONS. The owner or contractor shall call a request
for an inspection into the Building Department at least 48 hours prior to the
requested inspection. For rough inspections, no insulation can be installed, or
any type of covering placed over the area remodeled or constructed.
      C.   FINAL INSPECTIONS. The owner or contractor shall call a request for
an inspection into the Building Department at least 48 hours prior to the
requested inspection. A building shall not be used or occupied in whole or in
part until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Building Official.
Before final occupancy certificate is issued, all outstanding re-inspection and
other village fees and costs must be paid, and a $10,000 bond must be posted in
a form acceptable to the village, to secure, in part, that the construction and
improvements comply with all applicable village building codes for that
property.
      D.   ON-SITE IMPROVEMENT INSPECTIONS. The Director of Building and
Zoning, or approved agent of the village, shall authorize the inspection of all
on-site improvements for commercial, industrial and residential construction
projects. On-site improvements include, but are not limited to, curb, gutters,
grading, drainage, paving and driveways. The cost of all inspections and
reports required under this provision shall be paid by developer/contractor.
   (I)   Section R113.4 Violation Penalties. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Any person who violates any provisions of this code or who fails to
comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters
or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, or the requirements of this code,
shall be subject to the following penalties as prescribed by law:
      1.   Civil Remedies. The village can enforce this code as provided by
law, including seeking injunctive relief for any violations.
      2.   Ordinance Violations. In addition but not in lieu of any other
penalties, any person violating this code is subject to a fine of not less than
$250 or more than $750 per day for each day any violation exists, with each
calendar day an offense exists constituting a separate offense.
   (J)   Section R114.2 Unlawful Continuance. Hereby amended to read as
follows:
      Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after
having been served with a stop order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe conditions, shall be
penalized as provided by this chapter.
   (K)   Section Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria.
Hereby amended to read as follows:
 
     Wind                                                Winter     Flood
     Speed                                               Design     Hazards
Roof                 SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM              Temp       Per
Snow 90 mph SEISMIC                                      0 degrees  Ordinance
Load        DESIGN                                       Fahrenheit
34          CATEGORY            Frost           Decay
lbs.        B        Weathering Line   Termite  Slight
                     Severe     Depth  Moderate to
                                42     to Heavy Moderate
                                inches
 
   (L)   Section R311 Means of Egress. Add the following:
      Section R311.4.1 Landing at Doors. Temporary exterior landing/stairs are
permitted for a period not to exceed six months from date of installation.
   (M)   Section R315 Where required. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      4.   Carbon Monoxide Detectors. All residential buildings constructed
after the effective date of this section shall be equipped with carbon monoxide
detectors. This provision shall also apply to existing residential buildings
equipped with new oil and gas combustion furnaces and boilers.
         a)   Power Source. Required carbon monoxide detectors shall receive
their primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a
commercial source, and when primary power is interrupted, shall receive power
from a battery. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch
other than those required for over-current protection.
         b)   Location. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed in the
immediate vicinity where the fossil fuel-burning appliance, boiler or furnace
is located. Carbon monoxide detectors must also be installed within fifteen
(15) feet of all sleeping rooms.
         c)   Compliance. All approved carbon monoxide detectors herein
required shall comply with all federal, state and local standards for such
devices. Carbon monoxide detectors shall bear the label of a nationally
recognized standards testing laboratory, which indicates that each such
detector that has been tested and listed as a single carbon monoxide detector.
         d)   FOSSIL FUEL. Includes coal, natural gas, kerosene oil, propane
and wood.
   (N)   Section R302.2, 302.3, and Table 302.6 Townhomes and Two-Family
Dwellings. Revised one hour fire rated construction to 2 hour fire rated
construction minimum, with no exceptions.
   (O)   Section R402.I Wood Foundations. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS WILL BE DELETED IN THEIR ENTIRETY:
      3.   Section R403.1 General
      4.   Figure R403.1(2) & Figure R403J(3)
      5.   Section R403.2 Footing for Wood Foundations
      6.   Section R404.2 Wood Foundation Walls
      7.   Section R404.2.1 Identification
      8.   Section R404.2.2 Stud Size
      9.   Section R404.2.3 Height of Backfill
      10.   Table R404.2.3
      11.   Table R404.2.4 Backfilling
      12.   Section R404.2.5 Drainage and Dampproofing
      13.   Section R404.2.6 Fastening
      14.   Section R405.2 Wood Foundations
      15.   Section R406.3 Dampproofing for Wood Foundations
      16.   Section R406.3.1 Panel Joint Sealed
      17.   Section R406.3.2 Below Grade Moisture Barrier
      18.   Section R406.3.3 Porous Fill
      19.   Section R406.3.4 Backfill
   (P)   Section R403.1 Footings. The following is added at the end of Section
R403.1:
      All open and screened porches that are roofed require a minimum 8" wide
trench footing foundation that extends at least 42" below finished grade.
      Trench footings are not permitted for brick veneer, solid masonry and 1-
1/2 story or greater wall construction.
   (Q)   Section R703.4 Attachments. Table R703.4 Weather-Resistant Siding
Attachment and Minimum Thickness:
 
Siding Material Nominal Thickness (Inches)
Vinyl siding    0.046
 
   (R)   Section R703.7.5 Flashing. The following shall be added at the end of
Section R703.7.5:
      “Foundation/Sill Flashing the minimum shelf angle, coping, base flashing,
lintel and window sill flashing shall be:
      Minimum flashing shall be rubberized asphalt flashing: Manufacturers’
standard composite flashing product, consisting of a pliable and highly
adhesive rubberized-asphalt compound bonded to a high density, cross-laminated
polyethylene film, to produce an overall thickness of 0.040 inch (1.0 mm) or a
rubberized flashing material of similar thickness. Six mil (6 mil) polyethylene
is not acceptable.”
   (S)   Section R703.8 Flashing. The following shall be added at the end of
Item 1:
      “Exterior Window and Door Flashing shall be:
      Minimum flashing shall be a multilayer composite employing polyethylene
and fiberglass with an integral adhesive strip that produces a perm rating of
less than .30 perms, and complying with ASTM E331. Infiltration barrier joint
tape is not acceptable.”
      Window and door flashing must be installed in accordance with the
American Architectural Manufacturers Association (AAMA) guidelines.
   (T)   Section R703.11 Vinyl Siding. Vinyl siding shall be certified and
labeled as conforming to the requirements of ASTM D 3679 by an approved quality
control agency and shall have a minimum thickness of 0.046 inches.
   (U)   Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Delete in its entirety.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1557, passed 3-4-96; Am. Ord. 1595,
passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2417, passed 9-17-07;
Am. Ord. 2480, passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 2930,
passed 7-21-14; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.21 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The 2012 International Building Code, first edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as a Building Code
of the village for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the
2012 International Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if full set out in this section, except with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes to such code as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Title: These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of the
Village of Frankfort, hereinafter sometimes referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 101.2.1 Appendices. Hereby adopted:
      Appendix A   EMPLOYEE QUALIFICATIONS
      Appendix B   BOARD OF APPEALS
      Appendix C   GROUP U - AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS
      Appendix I   PATIO COVERS
   (C)   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. Hereby amended by referencing and adopting
the 2014 Illinois State Plumbing Code.
   (D)   Section 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit. Hereby amended by deleting this
section in its entirety:
      Building, Electrical, Mechanical and Plumbing.
   (E)   Section 105.5 Expiration. Hereby amended to:
      Delete one hundred eighty (180) days and in this section replace it with
ninety (90) days.
   (F)   Section 109.2 Schedule of Permit Fees.  Hereby amended to read as
follows:
      Fee Schedule: A fee for each plan examination, building permit and
inspections shall be paid in accordance with the schedule as set forth in
applicable village ordinances, including Ordinance Nos. 1347 and 1449 entitled,
“An Ordinance Amending Building Permit Fees and Inspection Charges for the
Village of Frankfort, Will County, Illinois,” as it now exists or from time to
time is amended.
   (G)   Section 110.3 Required Inspection. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      1.   INITIAL ON SITE SEDIMENT CONTROL INSPECTION
         A.   Sediment and erosion control measures must be installed and
maintained during the duration of the entire project in accordance with the
applicable village ordinances, including Village of Frankfort Design Standards
Ordinance No. 2487 or most recent edition.
      2.   FOOTING INSPECTIONS
         A.   Inspections required prior to placement of concrete.
         B.   If poor soil conditions exist, Illinois State Licensed Soil
Engineer will be required to provide a signed and sealed soil determination,
and inspection prior to placement of concrete.
         C.   Installation of stone drive.
      3.   FOUNDATION INSPECTION
         A.   Inspection of concrete forms in-place prior to any concrete being
poured.
         B.   Reinforcing steel in-place.
         C.   Forms centered on footing.
         D.   Installation of stone drive.
      4.   FOUNDATION BACKFILL INSPECTION
         A.   Dampproofing in-place.
         B.   Drain tile in-place.
         C.   Anchor bolt installation and location.
         D.   Upon approval of the drain tile inspection, the foundation can be
backfilled. The Building Department will permit construction of the deck over
the basement or crawlspace areas only, prior to or after backfilling. This will
help provide extra safety at the job site and structural integrity to the
foundation.
         E.   Submit spot survey (top of foundation elevation and all setback
dimensions).
         F.   Sediment control inspection.
      5.   UNDERGROUND PLUMBING INSPECTION
         A.   Basement Floor - inspection necessary prior to placement of
concrete.
      6.   SANITARY SEWER & WATER INSPECTION
      7.   ROUGH ELECTRIC INSPECTION
      8.   ROUGH PLUMBING INSPECTION
      9.   ROUGH MECHANICAL INSPECTION
      10.   ROUGH BUILDING INSPECTION
         A.    No insulation may be installed until the rough inspections have
been approved.
      11.   INSULATION INSPECTION:
         A.   No wall/ceiling coverings may be applied until an insulation
inspection has been performed and approved by the village.
      12.   MASONRY THRU-WALL “SILL” FLASHING INSPECTION 
         A.   Prior to the installation of brick veneer, or stone.
      13.   CONCRETE FLAT WORK INSPECTION
         A.   Basement floors.
         B.   Garage floors/interior concrete.
         C.   Driveways/parking areas.
         D.   Sidewalks and service walks.
         E.   Patios.
      14.   EXTERIOR INSULATION FINISH SYSTEM INSPECTION:
         The following inspections shall be required for all E.I.F.S.
installation:
         A.   Substrate/flashing inspections.
         B.   E.P.S. board inspection.
         C.   Base coat application inspection.
         D.   Final inspection.
         E.   The installer must adhere to all manufacturers’ requirements for
installation, and include a drainage system or equivalent.
      15.   FINAL PLUMBING INSPECTION
      16.   FINAL ELECTRIC INSPECTION
      17.   FINAL MECHANICAL INSPECTION
      18.   FINAL BUILDING INSPECTION
      19.   FINAL GRADE INSPECTION
      20.   ASPHALT/PARKING AREA INSPECTION
      21.   LANDSCAPE PERMIT INSPECTION (per applicable village ordinances,
including Ordinance No. 2341, as from time to time amended):
         A.   Provide complete landscaping plans.
         B.   Indicate foundation and all top of grade elevations.
         C.   Provide drawing showing the location of all lawn sprinkler heads
on final plat of survey.
   (H)   Section 110.3-1 Requests for Inspection is added as follows:
      A   CONCRETE INSPECTIONS. The owner or contractor shall call a request
for an inspection into the Building Department at least 24 hours prior to the
inspection. All forms and/or concrete will be inspected prior to the placement.
      B.   BUILDING INSPECTIONS. The owner or contractor shall call a request
for an inspection into the Building Department at least 48 hours prior to the
inspection. For rough inspections, no insulation can be installed, or any type
of covering placed over the area remodeled or constructed.
      C.   FINAL INSPECTIONS. The owner or contractor shall call a request for
an inspection into the Building Department at least 48 hours prior to
inspection. A building shall not be used or occupied, in whole or in part,
until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Building Official.
         For purposes of this section, the terms “used or occupied” shall be
deemed to include, but are not limited to, the following:
         1.   The temporary or permanent storage of furniture, equipment, and/
or personal or household effects within the building or structure.
         2.   Use of the building or structure for the purposes of
interviewing, training and instructing individuals, or other similar
activities.
      D.   ON-SITE IMPROVEMENT INSPECTIONS. The Director of Building and
Zoning, or approved agent of the village, shall authorize the inspection of all
on-site improvements for commercial, industrial and residential construction
projects. On-site improvements include, but are not limited to, curb, gutters,
grading, drainage, paving and driveways. The cost of all inspections and
reports required under these provisions shall be paid by developer/contractor.
(Ord. 1557, passed 3-4-96)
   (I)   Section 114.4 Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
      Any person who violates any provision of this code or who fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, or the requirements of this code,
shall be subject to the following penalties as prescribed by law.
      1.   Civil Remedies. The village can enforce this code as provided by
law, including seeking injunctive relief for any violations.
      2.   Ordinance Violations. In addition but not in lieu of any other
penalties, any person violating this code is subject to a fine of not less than
$250 or more than $750 per day for each day any violation exists, with each
calendar day a violation exists constituting a separate offense.
   (J)   Section 114.2 Notice of violation. Hereby amended by adding the
following language:
      Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe conditions, shall be
penalized as provided by this chapter and be liable for a fine of not less than
$250 nor more than $750 per day for each day a violation exists.
   (K)   Section 310 Residential Group R. Add the following:
      Section 310.3 Required Dwelling Unit and Guest Room Separation. Hereby
amended by adding the following language:
      Groups R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 containing two or more dwelling units shall be
separated by tenant separation or party walls with a fire resistance rating of
a minimum of two (2) hours, and shall be constructed of a non-combustible
masonry/concrete materials. Any dwelling units located above another dwelling
unit shall be separated by a floor system with a fire resistance rating of a
minimum of two (2) hours, and shall be constructed of pre-cast concrete or
poured in place concrete.
   (L)   Section 705.4 Materials. Delete the following:
      Exception: Construction of Type V construction.
   (M)   Section 708.4 Continuity. Hereby amended by adding the following
language:
      “The minimum tenant separation shall be two (2) hours separation from
floor to ceiling or roof deck above.”
   (N)   Section 907.2 Where Required.  Hereby amended by adding the following
language:
      1)   An automatic fire detection system shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with the provisions of this code and the NFPA72 in all buildings
of groups A-B-E-F-H-I-M-R-S-U.
      2)   Carbon Monoxide Detectors. All commercial and industrial buildings
constructed after the effective date of this section shall be equipped with
carbon monoxide detectors. This provision shall also apply to existing
commercial and industrial buildings equipped with new or replacement oil and
gas combustion furnaces and boilers.
         a)   Power Source. Required carbon monoxide detectors shall receive
their primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a
commercial source, and when primary power is interrupted, shall receive power
from a battery. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch
other than those required for over-current protection.
         b)   Location. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed in the
immediate vicinity where the fossil fuel-burning appliance, boiler or furnace
is located.
         c)   Compliance. All approved carbon monoxide detectors herein
required shall comply with all federal, state and local standards for such
devices. Carbon monoxide detectors shall bear the label of a nationally
recognized standards testing laboratory, which indicates that each such
detector has been tested and listed as a single carbon monoxide detector.
            FOSSIL FUEL. Includes coal, natural gas, kerosene oil, propane and
wood
   (O)   Section 1405.4 Flashing. The following shall be added at the end of
Section 1405.4:
      “The minimum shelf angle, coping, base flashing, lintel and window sill
flashing shall be:
      Rubberized Asphalt Flashing: Manufacturers’ standard composite flashing
product, consisting of a pliable and highly adhesive rubberized-asphalt
compound bonded to a high density, cross-laminated polyethylene film to produce
an overall thickness of 0.040 inch (1.0 mm), or a rubberized flashing material
of similar thickness. 6 mil polyethylene is not acceptable.”
      “Minimum flashing around exterior window and door openings shall be a
multi-layer composite employing polyethylene and fiberglass, with an integral
adhesive strip that produces a perm rating of less than .30 perms, and
complying with ASTM E331. Infiltration barrier joint tape is not acceptable.”
   (P)   Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems. Hereby amended by deleting this chapter
in its entirety and referring to, adopting and incorporating the 2014 Illinois
State Plumbing Code as provided under this subchapter.
   (Q)   Section 3107 Signs. Hereby amended by referring to, adopting and
incorporating the Village of Frankfort Code of Ordinances,
Chapter 151.
   (R)   Section 3412.2 Applicability. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Structures existing prior to the date of adoption in the Village of
Frankfort, December 3, 2001.
   (S)   Section 903.2 Where Required. Amend as follows:
      Delete the first paragraph and add the following:
      A.   A complete automatic fire suppression system shall be installed and
maintained in full operating condition, as specified in this code in all
buildings as follows:
      B.   All buildings four (4) or more stories or fifty feet (50') in
height.
      C.   In any building greater than seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
square feet in floor area - inclusive of all floor stories and mezzanines.
      D.   As required in locations indicated in sections 903.2.1 through
903.2.15 except as amended below:
         Section 903.2.1.1.1 Use Group A-1. In lieu of 12,000 square feet
revise to 7,500 square feet.
         Section 903.2.1.3.1 Use Group A-3. In lieu of 12,000 square feet
revise to 7,500 square feet.
         Section 903.2.1.4.1 Use Group A-4. In lieu of 12,000 square feet
revise to 7,500 square feet.
         Section 903.2.3.1 Use Group E. In lieu of 12,000 square feet revise to
7,500 square feet.
         Section 903.2.4.1 Use Group F-1. In lieu of 12,000 square feet revise
to 7,500 square feet.
         Section 903.2.7.1 Use Group M. In lieu of 12,000 square feet revise to
7,500 square feet.
         Section 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 Sprinkler Systems. Add the language “and the
Village of Frankfort Fire code” to the last line.
         Section 903. 3.1. 2 NFPA 13 R Sprinkler Systems. Add the language “and
the Village of Frankfort Fire Code” to the last line.
         Section 903.3.1.3 NFPA 13 D Sprinkler System. Add the language “and
the Village of Frankfort Fire Code” to the last line.
         Section 907. 2.1 Use Group A. Delete this section in its entirety and
replace with the following:
            Section 90 7. 2.1 Use Group A. A fire detection system shall be
installed and maintained in all buildings of use group A where such buildings
are not required to have fire suppression systems.
         Section 907.2.2 Use Group B. Delete this section in its entirety and
replace with the following:
            Section 907. 2. 2 Use Group B. A fire detection system shall be
installed and maintained in all buildings of use group B where such buildings
are not required to have fire suppression systems.
         Section 907. 2. 4 Use Group F. Delete this section in its entirety and
replace with the following:
            Section 907. 2. 4 Use Group F. A fire detection system shall be
installed and maintained in all buildings of use group F where such buildings
are not required to have fire suppression systems.
         Section 907. 2. 7 Use Group M. Delete this section in its entirety and
replace with the following:
            Section 907. 2. 7 Use Groups M and S. A fire detection system shall
be installed and maintained in all buildings of use group M and S where such
buildings are not required to have fire suppression systems.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1557, passed 3-4-96; Am. Ord. 1595,
passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09;
Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.22 ADOPTION OF THE 2014 ILLINOIS STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   The Illinois State Plumbing Code 2014 Edition, including the supplements
thereto, as adopted by the Illinois Department of Public Health pursuant to
authority included in the Illinois Plumbing License and Code Law, is hereby
adopted as the Plumbing Code of the Village of Frankfort, except with
amendments and deletions as follows:
   (A)   Delete #11 in Table A, Section 890 Appendix A. Delete the following:
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe.
   (B)   Delete #4 in Table A, Section 890 Appendix A. Delete the following:
Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride (CPVC) pipe.
   (C)   Delete #2 in Table A, Section 890 Appendix A.  Delete the following:
Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride (CPVC) pipe/tubing.
   (D)   Amend #2 in “Agency Notes.” Amend the following to read: Type L copper
tubing, approved for above ground uses only Type K copper for below ground.
   (E)   Delete in its entirety. Section 890. 1500 Installation of wet venting.
   (F)   Amend Section 890.1340 by amending #4 to provide that the size of the
item stated in this section “shall not be less than 3 inches in diameter.”
   (G)   Delete #12 in Table A, Section 890 Appendix A, Approved Materials for
Water Service Pipe. Delete the following: Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877,
passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2128, passed 11-15-04; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09;
Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.23 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   The 2012 International Mechanical Code, first edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as a Building Code
of the village for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the
2012 International Mechanical Code are hereby referred to adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section, except with additions,
insertions, deletions and changes to such code as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Title: These regulations shall be known as the International Mechanical
Code of the Village of Frankfort, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   (B)   Section 106.5.2 Fee Schedule. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Fee Schedule. A fee for each plan examination, building permit and
inspections shall be paid in accordance with the schedule as set forth in
applicable village ordinances, including Ordinance Nos. 1347 and 1449 entitled,
“An Ordinance Amending Building Permit Fees and Inspection Charges for the
Village of Frankfort, Will County, Illinois,” as it now exists or from time to
time is amended.
   (C)   Section 106.5.3 Fee Refund. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this section are
hereby amended to read as follows:
      1.   Fifty percent (50%) of the permit fee paid if a refund is requested
by the applicant within thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of the
permit and no work has been done under the permit issued in accordance with
this code.
      2.   Fifty percent (50%) of the plan review fee paid when an application
for a permit for which a plan review has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled by
the applicant within thirty (30) days from the date of plan submittal and the
village or its consultant has not initiated any review of the plan, and the
village consultant has refunded to the village the fifty (50%) percent of the
paid plan review fee.
   (D)   Section 108.4 Violation Penalties. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Any person who violates any provision of this code, or who fails to
comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters
or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, or the requirements of this code,
shall be subject to the following penalties as prescribed by law.
      1.   Civil Remedies. The village can enforce this code as provided by
law, including seeking injunctive relief for any violations.
      2.   Ordinance Violations. In addition but not in lieu of any other
viable penalties, any person violating this code is subject to a fine of not
less than $250 and not more than $750 per day for each day any violation
exists, with each calendar day a violation exists constituting a separate
offense.
   (E)   Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      No person shall continue any work in or about the building, structure or
improvements after having been served with a stop work order, except such work
as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation of unsafe
conditions.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877,
passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.24 ADOPTION OF THE 2015 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   The 2015 International Energy Conservation Code, first edition, published by
the International Code Council, Inc., shall be and is hereby adopted as a
building code of the village for the control of buildings and structures as
therein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions,
and terms of the 2015 International Energy Conservation Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
section, except with additions, insertions, deletions, and changes to such code
which are as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Title: This code shall be known as the International Energy Conservation
Code of the Village of Frankfort, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877,
passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 2637, passed 2-16-10;
Am. Ord. 2809, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.25 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   The 2012 International Fire Code, first edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as a Fire Code of
the village regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from
fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substances, materials and devices, from conditions hazardous to life
or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the village;
providing for the issuance of permits for hazardous uses or operations, and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the 2012
International Fire Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as if fully set out in this section, except with additions, insertions,
deletions and changes to such code as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Title: These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the Village
of Frankfort, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   (B)   Section 101.2.1 Appendices. Hereby adopted:
      Appendix A   BOARD OF APPEALS
      Appendix B   FIRE - FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS
      Appendix C   FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION
      Appendix E   HAZARDOUS CATEGORIES
      Appendix F   HAZARDOUS RANKING
   (C)   Section 109.4 Violations/Penalties. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Any person who violates any provision of this code or who fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the following
penalties as prescribed by law.
      1.    Civil Remedies. The village can enforce this code as provided by
law, including seeking injunctive relief for any violations.
      2.   Ordinance Violations. In addition but not in lieu of any other
viable penalties, any person violating this code is subject to a fine of not
less than $250 or more than $750 per day for each day any violation exists,
with each day a violation existing constituting a separate offense.
   (D)   Section 5704.2.9.6.2 Separation between adjacent stable or unstable
liquid tanks is amended to limit the maximum capacity of the tank not to exceed
1,000 gallons.
   (E)   Section 5706.2.4.4 Location where above ground tanks are prohibited is
amended to limit the maximum capacity of the tank not to exceed 1,000 gallons.
   (F)   Chapter 57 Maximum capacity within established limits is amended to
limit the maximum capacity of the tank not to exceed 1,000 gallons.
   (G)   The requirements, terms, conditions and provisions of each of the
following ordinances adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Mokena Fire
Protection District and the Board of Trustees of the Frankfort Fire Protection
District are adopted by reference and incorporated herein.
      (1)   Mokena Fire Protection District, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois,
Fire Prevention Ordinance No. 2007-3, as it now exists and is from time to time
is amended, a copy of which is on file with the Village of Frankfort.
      (2)   Frankfort Fire Protection District, Will County, Frankfort
Illinois, Ordinance No. 179, as it now exists and is from time to time is
amended, a copy of which is on file with the Village of Frankfort, except that
in Section 902, Definitions, Total Area is hereby amended to read:
         For the purposes of calculating total square feet and fire areas the
total area shall be:
         The aggregate floor area within the exterior walls of a building;
regardless of fire walls, fire barriers, or fire resistance-rated horizontal
assemblies. This floor area includes all mezzanines, basements, balconies,
porches, roof overhangs, extensions and enclosed extensions.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877,
passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.26 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, first edition, published
by the International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as a Building
Code of the village for the control of buildings and structures as therein
provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, except with
additions, insertions, deletions and changes to such code as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Title: These regulations shall be known as the 2012 International
Property Maintenance Code of the Village of Frankfort, hereinafter referred to
as “this code.”
   (B)   Section 103.5 Fee Schedule. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      A fee for each plan examination, building permit and inspection shall be
in accordance with the schedule as set forth in applicable village ordinances.
   (C)   Section 106.4 Violation Penalties. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Any person who violates any provision of this code or who fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the following
penalties as prescribed by law.
      1.   Civil Remedies. The village can enforce this code as provided by
law, including seeking injunctive relief for any violations.
      2.   Ordinance Violations. In addition but not in lieu of any other
viable penalties, any person violating this code is subject to a fine of not
less than $250 or more than $750 per day for each day any violation exists,
with each calendar day a violation exists constituting a separate offense.
   (D)   Section 302.4 Weeds. Hereby to read as follows:
      Delete weed height of 10 inches and replace with weed height of six (6)
inches. The following is hereby added to Section 302.4:
      All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or
plant growth in excess of six inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than
trees or shrubs; provided, however, this term shall not include cultivated
flowers and gardens.
   (E)   Section 304.14 Insect Screens.  Hereby amended by adding the following
language:
      Every door, window and other outside opening utilized or required for
ventilation purposes serving any structure containing habitable rooms, food
preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged or stored, shall be supplied with approved, tightly fitting screens of
not less than 16 mesh per inch, and every swinging door shall have a self-
closing device in good working condition.
   (F)   Section 308.3.3 Residential Garbage Can Screening Requirements. Hereby
amended to read as follows:
      (1)   All single-family residential properties in the village are
required to screen their receptacles for waste and recyclable material in such
a manner that the receptacle cannot be viewed from the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Receptacles for residential waste or recyclable material may be
stored within an enclosed garage, behind the rear of the residential structure
or located on the side of the building;
         (a)   Receptacles can also be located within the front of the home, if
completely screened from view.
         (b)   Storage of waste and recyclable receptacles located on the side
of the residential structure is limited to areas that when viewed from the
right-of-way are appropriately screened. Examples of screening methods may
include the installation of landscaping, fencing, or masonry wing walls.
      (3)   Fines and Penalties.
         (a)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies or any
provision of penalties provided or available in law or equity, any person,
entity, business or corporation which violates Section 308.3.3 shall pay a fine
of not less than $15 nor more than $50 for each month of such violation with
each month constituting a separate violation.
   (G)   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Every owner and operator of a building who rents, leases or lets one or
more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guest room on terms either
express or implied to furnish heat to the occupants thereof, shall supply
sufficient heat to maintain the room temperatures at the minimum of 68 degrees
Fahrenheit in all habitable rooms, bath rooms and toilet rooms.
   (H)   Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Hereby amended to read as
follows:
      Every enclosed occupied work space shall be supplied with sufficient heat
to maintain a temperature of not less than 68 degrees Fahrenheit during all
working hours.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877,
passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18;
Am. Ord. 3237, passed 12-16-19)
§ 150.27 ADOPTION OF THE 2011 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The 2011 National Electrical Code (NFPA-70) published by the National Fire
Protection Association is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the village.
Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties and terms of the NFPA-
70, 2011 Edition, are hereby referred to as adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes to such code as follows:
   (A)    The following codes and standards are adopted by reference as part of
the village’s adoption of the above National Electrical Code:
      (1)   (a)   The Electrical Industry Association (E.I.A.) and the
Telephone Industry Association (T.I.A.) Standards.
         (b)   Amendments to EIA/TIA Standard 570.
         (c)   Section 5.3.5.2 of the EIA/TIA is amended to add a minimum of
one wire run shall be installed to each of the following rooms in residences
(where applicable):
            Kitchen
            All Bedrooms
            Family/Guest Room
            Den/Study
      (2)   ANSI (American National Standards Institute).
         #Z21.83-98 - Fuel Cell Power Plants (Referenced in Code Section
#1202.10)
      (3)   U.L. (Underwriters Laboratories).
         #910-98 - Test for Flame - Propagation and Smoke-Density Values for
Electrical and Optical-Fiber Cables Used in Space Transporting Environmental
Air (Referenced in Code Section #1202.8)
         #2043-96 - Standard for Fire Test for Heat and Visible Smoke Release
for Discrete Products and Their Accessories Installed in Air-Handing Spaces
(Referenced in Code Section 1202.8.1)
      (4)   NFPA (National Fire Protection Association).
         #37-98 - Installation and Use of Stationary Combustion Engines and Gas
Turbines (Referenced in Code Section #1202.9)
         #110-99 - Emergency and Standby Power Systems (Referenced in Code
Section 1202.6)
         #111-96 - Stored Electrical Energy Emergency and Standby Power Systems
(Referenced in Code Section 1202.6)
   (B)   The following articles are deleted from the Electrical Code:
      Article 230.43 - Wiring Methods
      Article 320 - Armored Cable: Type AC
      Article 322 - Flat Cable Assemblies: Type FC
      Article 324 - Flat Conductor Cable (FCC) usually under carpets
      Article 326 - Integrated Gas Spacer Cable
      Article 328 - Medium Voltage Cable (Type MV) 2001 Volts or higher
      Article 334 - Non-Metallic Sheathed Cable/Type NM, NMC & NMS
      Article 338 - Service - entrance Cable/Type SE & USE
      Article 352.10.A - Concealed. In walls, floors & ceilings
      Article 352.10.C - Cinders. In cinder fill.
      Article 352.10.F - Exposed
      Article 362 - Electrical Non-Metallic Tubing (flexible corrugated)
      Article 382 - Non-Metallic Extensions
      Article 394 - Concealed Knob-and-Tube Wiring
      Article 398 - Pertaining to open wiring on insulators
   (C)   Adopt the following: “All conductors shall be installed in approved
metallic raceways”. Exceptions: See Article 352.10 (B), (D), (E) and (G).
   (D)   The following articles of the Electrical Code are amended:
      (1)   Article 230.43 is amended to read, “All electrical utility services
shall only be installed in rigid metal conduit (or other material as approved),
or intermediate metal conduit (or other material as approved) above ground and
entering the building.”
         (a)   All underground branch-circuit and feeder conductors shall be
protected against over- current by an over-current device installed at the
point where the conductors receive their supply and all sub-panels will have a
main breaker located at the panel.
         (b)   All conduits entering a building shall be sealed with duct seal
or other approved method to prevent moisture and condensation from forming
inside the conduit.
      (2)   Article 210.5 (C) is amended to add the following: “All 120-208
Volt services, feeders, and branch circuits shall have phases marked Black (A),
Red (B) and Blue (C). All 277-480 Volt services, feeders, and branch circuits
shall be phased marked Brown (A), Orange (B), and Yellow (C).”
      (3)   Article 320 of the N.E.C. and substitute as follows (NFPA-70):
         Armored Cable (Type A.C.) - Exceptions:
         Armored cable may be permitted for use in concealed work in dry
locations where it is finished in existing walls or partitions where it is not
possible to install conduit, EMT or other approved raceway.
      (4)   Multi-Family Residence Buildings.
         Articles 210-52H and 210-70a of the Electrical Code are amended to
add:
         A duplex receptacle shall be installed in each public hallway on each
floor, and in each public reception room or foyer in multi-family residences.
         (Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877, passed 1-7-02)
   (E)   The following provisions are added to the Electrical Code:
      (1)   All wiring between the meter box and inside service panel,
exceeding ten feet (10'), shall require proper wire over current protection.
      (2)   All new single family dwellings over 2,000 square feet (2,000 s.f.)
shall have a minimum of a 200 ampere, 3-wire service, and shall be underground
whenever possible, unless otherwise approved by the village.
         (a)   Residential Services. Shall be installed on the side of the
house closest to the utility pedestal that will feed the meter. The service
shall not be installed on the rear of the house unless approved by the village.
      (3)   A maximum of three (3) conduits per one and one half inch (1-1/2")
8-B (3-1/2" Octagon box x 1-1/2" deep) or four conduits per 1,900 (4" square
box x 1-1/2" deep) box shall be allowed.
      (4)   All lights over a bathtub or a shower will be G.F.C.I. protected.
         (a)   In commercial and industrial buildings, all receptacles within
five feet (5') of water shall be G.F.C.I. receptacles. This includes washrooms,
whether they are public or private, or around sinks, showers, tubs, or water
fountains.
      (5)   In all cases duly licensed by a commission in the State of Illinois
that provides a test for electrical competency, a bonded electrical contractor
shall install electrical services and wiring.
      (6)   Studs, plates and joists must be drilled so as not to break the
front half of the wood. If it is broken and the conduit is exposed, a metal
plate must be placed across the opening.
      (7)   Jacuzzi, spa or whirlpool tubs shall be hard wired to a J Box, with
a switch, or G.F.C.I.- protected receptacle where it can be plugged. No cords
from motors shall protrude through a wall or the floor to be wired. All tub
motors will have an access panel with a minimum size of fourteen inches by
fourteen inches (14" x 14").
         (a)   One hundred twenty-five (125) Volt receptacles located within
ten feet (10') (3,048 mm) of the inside walls of spas and hot tubs shall be
protected by ground-fault circuit-interrupters. One hundred twenty-five (125)
Volt receptacles located within five feet (5') (1,524 mm) of the inside walls
of hydro massage bathtubs shall be protected by a ground-fault circuit-
interrupter.
         (b)   All hydro massage bathtubs and whirlpool tubs shall be protected
by a faceless ground- fault circuit interrupter located within the same room as
the tub.
      (8)   Any 120 volt sump pump or ejector pump shall have a single
receptacle, not a duplex receptacle, and shall be on a separate circuit, non-
G.F.C.I. type.
      (9)   Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT). Shall not be used underground,
outside exposed to the weather, on outside walls, on roofs exposed to permanent
moisture, nor in concrete slab in contact with the earth or fill, where during
installation or afterwards, it will be subject to mechanical injury. Plastic,
visqueen or similar materials under the tubing is considered the same as earth
or fill.
      (10)   Low Voltage Wiring. Low voltage wiring for lighting circuits, TV
cable controls, building automation, telephone, intercoms, communications,
including signaling circuits on commercial and industrial buildings or where
there are metal studs being used, may be run exposed only in accessible areas.
When such wiring is installed in inaccessible areas or subject to mechanical
injury, or in plenums, all wiring shall be installed in conduit or approved
raceway, and all such work requires a permit.
      (11)   For smoke and carbon monoxide requirements, see IRC Code 2012 or
Illinois Public Act 094-0741.
(Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed
6-15-09; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.28 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   The 2012 International Fuel Gas Code, second edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as a Building Code
of the village for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the
2012 International Fuel Gas Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, except with additions,
insertions, deletions and changes to such code as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Title: These regulations shall be known as the 2012 International Fuel
Gas Code of the Village of Frankfort, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   (B)   Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Fee Schedule. A fee for each plan examination. Building permit and
inspections shall be paid in accordance with the schedule as set forth in
applicable village ordinances, including Ordinance Nos. 1347 and 1449 entitled,
“An Ordinance Amending Building Permit Fees and Inspection Charges for the
Village of Frankfort. Will County, Illinois,” as it now exists or from time to
time is amended.
   (C)   Section 106.6.3 Fee Refund. Hereby amended to read as follows:
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this section are hereby amended to read as follows:
      1.   Fifty percent (50%) of the permit fee paid if a refund is requested
by the applicant within thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of the
permit and no work has been done under the permit issued in accordance with
this code.
      2.   Fifty percent (50%) of the plan review fee paid when an application
for a permit for which a plan review has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled by
the applicant within thirty (30) days from the date of plan submittal and the
village or its consultant has not initiated any review of the plan and the
village consultant has refunded to the village fifty percent (50%) of the paid
plan review fee.
   (D)   Section 108.4 Violation Penalties. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      Any person who violates any provisions of this code or who fails to
comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters
or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code shall be subject to the following
penalties as prescribed by law.
      1.   Civil Remedies. The village can enforce this code as provided by
law, including seeking injunctive relief for any violations.
      2.   Ordinance Violations. In addition but not in lieu of other viable
penalties, any person violating this code is subject to a fine of not less than
$250 or more than $750 per day for each day any violation exists, with each
calendar day a violation exists constituting a separate violation.
   (E)   Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders. Hereby amended to read as follows:
      No person shall continue any work in or about the structure after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation of unsafe conditions.
(Ord. 1877, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 3156, passed
5-21-18)
§ 150.29 CONSTRUCTION USING MOST RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS.
   Each of the codes adopted herein shall be constructed collectively, and if
there are any inconsistencies between such codes, the most restrictive
provisions to the applicant shall apply.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1877,
passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. 3156, passed 5-21-18)
§ 150.30 ADOPTION OF ELEVATOR SAFETY CODES.
   (A)   Codes adopted. The Village of Frankfort adopts by reference the
following codes and standards as its codes and standards for the construction,
operation, inspecting, testing, maintenance and repair of all equipment, parts
and devices subject to village regulation under Section 10 of the Elevator
Safety and Regulation Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 312, § 10):
      (1)   American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME):
         (a)   Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators (ASME A17.1-2007/CSA
B44-07) and Performance-Based Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators (ASME
A17.1-2007/CSA B44.7-07);
         (b)   Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators, and Moving Walks
(ASME 17.2-2007);
         (c)   Safety Code for Existing Elevators and Escalators (ASME A17.3-
2005) (upgrades required by application of the Safety Code for Existing
Elevators and Escalators must be completed no later than January 1, 2009,
except that upgrades to the hydraulic cylinder system and the firefighter
control system must be completed by January 1, 2011);
         (d)   Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts (ASME
A18.1-2005); and
         (e)   Standard for the Qualification of Elevator Inspectors (ASME ZEI-
2007).
      (2)   American National Standards Institute (ANSI):
         (a)   Safety Requirements for Personal Hoists and Employee Elevators
(ANSI A10-4-2007).
      (3)   American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE):
         (a)   Automated People Mover Standards Part 1 (ASCE 21-2005);
         (b)   Automated People Mover Standards Part 2 (ASCE 21-1998);
         (c)   Automated People Mover Standards Part 3 (ASCE 21-2000).
      (4)   And any later editions to the foregoing codes together with any
other codes and standards applicable to the Elevator Safety Regulation Act
which are from time to time adopted by the State of Illinois Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules and promulgated and utilized by the Office of the State
Fire Marshal of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   Upgrades. Upgrades to all existing elevators, escalators and other
devices required by ASME A17.3-2005, Safety Code for Existing Elevators, shall
be completed no later than January 1, 2009, except that upgrades to the
hydraulic cylinder system and firefighter control system shall be completed by
January 1, 2011.
   (C)   Fees. Fees associated with the inspection of elevators and other
devices subject to this section shall be administratively established and set
by the Village Administrator of the Village of Frankfort after consultation
with the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Compliance with applicable codes. Any person, entity, business or
corporation owning, operating, maintaining or managing any building, structure,
property or facility with any equipment, parts or devices subject to village
regulation under this section must fully comply with all applicable village
codes and standards including those provided herein.
(Ord. 2513, passed 9-15-08) Penalty, see § 150.99
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 150.40 BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   In addition to, and not in lieu of, all other costs, reimbursable expenses
and other fees charged, the applicant for a building permit shall pay, at the
time of permit approval, the following fees for construction and inspection for
new construction, remodeling, and building additions for various zoning
classifications and specified project descriptions as follows:
   (A)   E-R through R-5 zoned property (residential dwellings).
      (1)   A fee of $0.40 per square foot of total building area.
      (2)   In addition, the applicant shall pay the village for all consultant
building code review charges incurred during its review of multi-family and
single-family dwelling construction.
   (B)   B-1 through B-5 zoned property (commercial).
      (1)   A fee of $0.50 per square foot of building area.
      (2)   In addition, the applicant shall pay the village for all consultant
building code review charges incurred during its review of all commercial
construction.
   (C)   I-1 and I-2 zoned property (industrial).
      (1)   A fee of $0.50 per square foot of building area.
      (2)   In addition, the applicant shall pay the village for all consultant
building code review charges incurred during its review of all industrial
construction.
   (D)   All zoning districts — remodeling.
 
Value of Permit       Cost of Permit
$0 - $100.00          $0
$100.01 - $1,000.00   $75
$1,000.01 - $2,500.00 $125
$2,500.01 - $5,000.00 $150
Over $5,000.00        $150*
                      * plus $15 per $1,000 of valuation
 
   (E)   Remodeling permit fees. Remodeling permit fees shall be set from time
to time from by the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Plan review fee. In addition to other fees, at the time of the
application, the applicant shall pay a plan review fee in an amount based upon
the cost of construction as defined below. For the purpose of this section, it
shall include, but not be limited to, the following types of construction:
commercial, industrial and residential, including new construction, remodeling,
and all repair work other than no fee permits. Construction cost shall be as
determined by the most current publication of the RS Means Construction Cost
Data Book unit costs. Should the construction type not be listed in RS Means
Construction Cost Data Book, the value of construction, as noted on the
building permit application, may be used at the discretion of the Building
Official.
 
Construction Costs       Review Fee
$0 - $2,000.00           $25
$2,000.01 - $10,000.00   $50
$10,000.01 - $25,000.00  $75
$25,000.01 - $100,000.00 $100
Over $100,000.00         Will be based on 10% of the village building permit
                         fee
 
   (G)   Accessory/repair permit fees.
Type of Permit Permit Review Total
Type of Permit                                    Permit Review Total
Air conditioner (hard wire)                       $30    $25    $55
Asphalt/resurface                                 $10    $25    $35
Basketball court                                  No fee No fee No fee
Boiler                                            $30    $25    $55
Brick pavers (patio, driveway, service walk)      $30    $25    $55
Commercial/industrial parking lot sealing         No fee No fee No fee
Concrete patio or driveway, walks (new)           $10    $25    $35
Concrete stoop, patio or walks repair replacement $10    $25    $35
Deck                                              $45    $25    $70
Demolition                                        $45    $25    $70
Dog run                                           $20    $25    $45
Drain tile                                        $30    $30    $60
Elevator*                                         $200   $50    $250
Electric service upgrade/temporary service        $45    $25    $70
Electrical work/alarm system                      $45    $25    $70
Fascia, soffit and gutter replacement             No fee No fee No fee
Fence                                             $30    $25    $55
Fill/land balance                                 $90    $25    $115
Fireplace                                         $25    $25    $50
Fire alarm system*                                $45    $25    $70
Fire suppression*                                 $100   $50    $150
 
Type of Permit Permit Review Total
Type of Permit                        Permit Review Total
Foundation repair                     No fee No fee No fee
Furnace replacement                   $30    $25    $55
Gazebo/pagoda                         $30    $25    $55
Garage door                           No fee No fee No fee
Hot water heater replacement          No fee No fee No fee
Hot tub or spa                        $70    $25    $95
Landscaping “pertaining to grading$100   $25    $125
Lawn sprinkler**                      $125   $25    $150
Mailbox                               $25    $10    $35
Mud jacking                           No fee No fee No fee
Parking lot expansion                 $45    $25    $70
Playhouse/swing set                   No fee No fee No fee
Plumbing replacement of fixtures      $55    $25    $80
POD residential property              $15    No fee $15
Radio or TV tower antenna             $10    $25    $35
Re-inspection fees                    $50    No fee $50
Re-roof                               No fee No fee No fee
Satellite dish                        $25    $25    $50
Sewer repair                          $30    $25    $55
Shed                                  $45    $25    $70
Siding replacement                    No fee No fee No fee
Starting work without permit          $75    No fee $75
Stop work order                       $75    No fee $75
 
Type of Permit Permit Review Total
Type of Permit                                             Permit Review Total
Swimming pool in-ground**                                  $350   $50    $400
Swimming pool above ground**                               $150   $50    $200
Tank removal/install                                       $45    $25    $70
Temporary office trailer                                   $90    $25    $115
Tuck pointing/masonry work                                 No fee No fee No fee
Water softener                                             No fee No fee No fee
Well (total fee, including 3-year operating permit of $45) $275   $25    $345
Window replacement                                         No fee No fee No fee
 
      *Outside consultants are used for these reviews, for which the fees are
passed onto the permit applicant.
      **Requires a $1000 bond to be posted to insure that all issues are met
with the project.
       Bond will be refunded once final inspections have passed.
   (H)   Consultant fees. If the village, at its sole discretion, retains
consultant(s) to review plans, workmanship, materials and other issues
associated with the building or construction of any improvements, then, in
addition to those other fees and costs under this section, the applicant shall
also pay the village all costs incurred and associated with such consultant(s).
(Ord. 1319, passed 9-17-90; Am. Ord. 1347, passed 4-29-91; Am. Ord. 1449,
passed 3-7-94; Am. Ord. 1951, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 2595, passed 6-15-09)
§ 150.41 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE.
 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES
ANNEXATION
0 - 5acres   $ 750
6 - 10 acres   $1,500
1 - 50 acres   $2,000
51 - 100 acres   $3,000
Over 100 acres - additional per acre   $ 20
 
ZONING
Rezoning
Within corporate limits   $ 800
Outside corporate limits (unincorporated)   $ 150
Variances
Single family (per variance)   $ 200
Commercial/industrial (per variance)   $ 300
Special uses
Special use (except for liquor sales)   $ 500
Liquor sales   $ 200
Planned unit development
0 - 10 acres   $2,750
11 - 25 acres   $3,750
26 - 50 acres   $4,750
51 - 100 acres   $6,500
Over 100 acres - additional per acre   $ 40
Major PUD change   $ 800
Minor PUD change   $ 400
 
 
STAFF REVIEW
(non-PUD projects only)
Site plan (per lot)   $ 300
Architecture (per building)   $ 200
Photometrics (per lot)   $ 100
Signage (per lot)   $ 100
 
 
PRELIMINARY PLAT
0 - 10 acres   $1,250
11 - 25 acres   $2,000
26 - 50 acres   $2,500
51 - 100 acres   $4,000
Over 100 - additional per acre   $ 40
 
FINAL PLAT
0 - 10 acres   $ 500
11 - 25 acres   $ 750
26 - 50 acres   $1,000
51 - 100 acres   $1,500
Over 100 acres - additional per acre   $ 20
REPLAT, CONSOLIDATION, LOT SPLIT
0 - 10 acres   $ 500
11 - 50 acres   $1,000
51 - 100 acres   $1,500
Over 100 acres - additional per acre   $ 20
 
 
SPECIAL EXCEPTION
All zoning districts   $ 750
 
 
VACATION
All easement vacations*   $ 200
*Any land vacated by the village is subject to compensation as estab- lished
by the village.
 
Note 1: Fractional acres are rounded up to the next unit.
Note 2: Legal, engineering, landscaping or other professional reviews/
consultations are assessed on an hourly basis.
Note 3: Publication of one legal notice is included with an application,
additional publication fees are billed to the applicant.
 
(Ord. 1870, passed 9-4-01; Am. Ord. 2592, passed 6-1-09)
CONTRACTORS
§ 150.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, partnership, corporation or other business entity
engaged in the business of constructing, altering or repairing buildings or
other structures or lots and all trades and crafts associated with such work,
including, but not restricted to, general building contractors, excavating
contractors, cement or concrete contractors, masonry contractors, carpentry
contractors, heating, air conditioning, ventilating, mechanical, electrical and
plumbing contractors and subcontractors.
      (1)   Any person who engages in the construction, repair or alteration of
any building or structure within the village for which a building permit is
required, is presumed to be a contractor and must be licensed hereunder unless
such presumption is rebutted.
      (2)   A homeowner engaged in constructing, altering or repairing his
personal residence or lot shall not be considered a contractor for purposes of
this subchapter.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. A contractor who uses one or more trades or
subcontractors to perform the required construction to complete any project for
which a building permit is required.
   SUBCONTRACTORS. A contractor who performs only that type of work that is
classified as a trade (for example plumbing, electrical, and the like).
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87)
§ 150.51 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall act or perform any services as a contractor or subcontractor
within the village without first having obtained a contractor’s license
therefor as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All applications for contractor’s license required in §
150.51 shall be made in writing to the Department of Community Development,
upon forms furnished by the village. Each application shall state the name and
business address of the applicant, whether it is a contractor or
subcontractor’s license application and if the latter, the trade or trades
involved, the number of the applicant’s employees who would be operating under
such license and a statement that the applicant is familiar with all pertinent
village ordinances, code and regulations including building codes and agrees to
fully comply with same.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87)
§ 150.53 LICENSE FEES AND BONDS.
   (A)   License fees. The fees for a contractor’s license, as required in §
150.51, are as follows:
      (1)   General contractor license fee: to be set by the Board of Trustees;
and
      (2)   Subcontractor and all other contractors license fee: to be set by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Bonds. Each applicant for a license, as required in §
150.51 shall, before receiving such a license, deposit with the Village
Building Department a license and letter of credit or permit bond issued by a
company approved and authorized to issue bonds by the state in a form suitable
to the village in the following penal sums:
      (1)   As set by the Board of Trustees for a general contractor in the
amount of $25,000; or
      (2)   As set by the Board of Trustees for a subcontractor in the amount
of $15,000.
   (C)   Surety Bond.  
      (1)   In addition to the bond required in division (B) of this section,
each applicant for a general contractor’s license, as required in §
150.51, shall, before receiving such a license, file with the Building
Department of the village a surety performance bond approved by the village in
the amount as set by the Board of Trustees for each new construction permit.
The surety performance bond shall remain in full force 12 months following the
issuance of an occupancy permit. The bond shall run to the village and shall be
conditioned that all work performed by or on behalf of the general contractor,
for each new construction permit, shall be performed in full compliance with
all ordinances, regulations and policies of the village and that all work
performed by him will not become a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of the village. If the village solely determines the work is not
being performed in conformance with village requirements or is or could be a
hazard to village residents, the village shall give the general contractor
written notice to fully correct such deficiencies within 48 hours of the
notice. Notwithstanding, however, if the village solely determines corrective
measures must be immediately undertaken due to a hazard to residents, the
village, at the general contractor’s sole cost, may institute such action from
the hazard. If the general contractor fails to timely undertake and complete
the corrective steps as required by the notice, or compensate the village
within 48 hours from their taking corrective action to safeguard from a hazard
and in addition to any other remedies available, the village may call such
surety performance bond to the amount necessary to perform or otherwise
compensate the village for all such work.
      (2)   For the purposes of notice, notice shall be given to the general
contractor, either personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the general contractor at the location stated in its general
contractor’s license application. If notice is given by mail, it is deemed
received upon mailing.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87; Am. Ord. 1356, passed 9-3-91; Am. Ord. 1564,
passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2384, passed 4-30-07)
§ 150.54 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall act as a contractor or subcontractor within the
village, nor shall be licensed, unless said contractor or subcontractor
deposits with the Village Building Department, a certificate of insurance
issued to the contractor or subcontractor by a company approved and authorized
to issue such insurance by the state for the full period of the license period
in the following amounts:
      (1)   General Contractor Insurance Requirements.
          (a)   Comprehensive broad form:
            1.   General liability, as set by the Board of Trustees.
            2.   Auto insurance, as set by the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Workers’ compensation and employers’ liability: Broad form
coverage in amounts required by law.
      (2)   Subcontractor.
         (a)   Comprehensive broad form:
            1.   General liability, as set by the Board of Trustees.
            2.   Auto insurance, as set by the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Workers’ compensation and employers’ liability: Broad form
coverage in amounts required by law.
   (B)   The certificate of insurance shall provide the insurance is not
cancelable during the policy period without 90 days prior written notice to the
village.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87; Am. Ord. 1356, passed 9-3-91) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.55 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The Village Department of Community Development shall issue licenses upon
proper application and compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, and
payment of the fee set out in §
150.53. All licenses shall be valid for one year from date of issue unless
otherwise revoked as prescribed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87)
§ 150.56 GENERAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   Any person licensed as a general contractor shall not be required to secure
an additional license for the performance of carpentry, masonry, cement or
concrete contracting.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87)
§ 150.57 PERFORMANCE OF CERTAIN DUTIES REQUIRED.
   All contractors licensed under §
150.51 shall comply with the provisions of all applicable village codes and
ordinances and, in addition thereto, to at least once each week or more often
as directed by the Village Building Inspector shall remove or cause to be
removed from the site of contractor’s activities all trash, refuse and waste
materials. Contractors shall at all times keep the site of activities in an
orderly condition, free from standing water, unguarded dangerous implements or
conditions and health and safety hazards, and contractors shall not obstruct
traffic on streets or sidewalks or permit dirt or waste materials to fall or be
carried onto such public ways.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.58 LICENSE REVOCATION; REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   Any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be
revoked by the Village Department of Community Development for any violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter; such revocation shall be in addition
to any fine or penalty imposed. No person whose license has been revoked as
herein provided shall be eligible for a new license for a period of one year
from the date of such revocation. All appeal from the action of the Village
Department of Community Development to revoke a contractor’s license shall be
filed within ten days of such action with the Village Board of Trustees who
shall conduct a hearing on such revocation.
   (B)   The Village Department of Community Development may refuse to issue a
license in the event that any of the provisions of this subchapter which
conditions are precedent to the issuance of the license have not been met. Any
appeals from an action of the Village Community Development to refuse to issue
a contractor’s license should be filed within ten days of such refusal with the
Village Board of Trustees who shall conduct a hearing on such refusal to issue
a license.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.70 ADMINISTRATIVE INSPECTION PROCEDURE FOR ALL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   For the purposes of protecting the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the village; to facilitate minimizing or eradicating certain
potentially public endangering conditions; and to authorize the Village Clerk
in conjunction with other village representatives to implement the herein, the
following procedure is hereby established to effectuate administrative
inspections of all buildings, residences, enclosures, commercial and industrial
establishments and all other premises situated within the corporate limits of
the village.
   (B)   On written application made under oath by any duly authorized officer,
agent or representative of the village, including fire, health, building,
plumbing, electrical and sanitation inspectors, liquor commissioner and Village
Engineer, setting forth with sufficient particularity the locality requested to
be inspected and the cause and reason necessitating said request, the Village
Clerk shall forthwith send a request to consent to administrative inspection in
a form substantially similar to division (G) of this section, by certified
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to a named occupant, if known,
otherwise “To Occupant.” Within five days from date of mailing, said addressee
shall file the signed consent in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   If the consent is not filed as described in division (B) of this
section or if the person making application for the inspection includes a
statement to the effect that there are exigent circumstances necessitating
immediate inspection, the Village Attorney shall petition the Circuit Court in
the appropriate county to issue a search warrant for said premises or area
described in the application by filing with the Court, a written complaint of
the individual making the original request for inspection under oath or
affirmation, which state facts sufficient to show probable cause and describes
with particularity the place or area to be inspected and directed for execution
by the person specifically named therein.
   (D)   The search warrant shall be executed within 96 hours of its issuance
with a duplicate of same left with any occupant of the premises being
inspected, or if no person is available, left in a conspicuous place in the
premises.
   (E)   All necessary and reasonable force may be used to effect entry into
any building or property, or part thereof, to effectuate the search warrant.
   (F)   A warrant may be executed at any time.
   (G)   Consent to administrative inspection.
   NOTICE AND CONSENT TO ADMINISTRATIVE INSPECTION
To:                                
   The                                     of the Village of Frankfort has
filed an application with the              (officer)
the undersigned requesting to inspect the following property:
   (LEGAL)
   Pursuant to Ordinance         of the Village of Frankfort, he has stated the
following reasons necessitating the inspection:
   The inspection is to be conducted between the hours of 9:00 A.M. and 5:00
P.M. by a representative of the Village of Frankfort during the week of
                   . If consent is not filed here by mail or in person with the
office of the Clerk of the Village of Frankfort within five (5) days from the
date this notice was dispatched, a search warrant may be issued by the Circuit
Court of Will County, Illinois authorizing the inspection.
                                                                                         
                           CLERK OF THE VILLAGE OF FRANKFORT
   I,                      , of                       , being the
                               of (legal)
                                              owner, occupant
hereby consent to and authorize the representative of the Village of Frankfort
to conduct an administrative inspection of the entire premises located on the
above described property during the week of                              .
                                                                                               
(Ord. 896, passes 8-4-75)
GRADING AND LANDSCAPING
§ 150.75 GRADING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Grading survey. At the time of application for any building permit for
new construction within the village, the applicant (General Contractor) shall
furnish the village a current plat of survey, which, among other things, shall
contain and/or portray the following information:
      (1)   The elevation of the four corners of the lot;
      (2)   The footprint of the structure in relation to all property lines;
      (3)   Proposed elevation of top of foundation and actual elevation of
curb, if any;
      (4)   All drainage swales and direction of surface water flow on the
property;
      (5)   Location of all public utilities, including telephone and
electrical pedestals;
      (6)   Utility service routing lines which should be run parallel with and
at least three feet within side property lines;
      (7)   Proposed finished grade.
   (B)   Certification of top of foundation wall elevation. After installation
of founding and drain tile, construction of the first floor deck may commence
prior to or after backfilling, but before any further work, the applicant
(General Contractor) shall submit to the village certification from an Illinois
licensed surveyor or engineer that the top of the foundation elevation and the
structure footprint conforms with the approved engineered grading plans and
village ordinances.
   (C)   Final grade certificate. Within six months after issuance of an
occupancy permit, but prior to the issuance of any landscaping permit for the
property, the building permit applicant shall deliver to the village a current
certification signed by an Illinois licensed surveyor or engineer stating the
property as developed.
      (1)   Conforms to all applicable ordinances and regulation of the village
including those regulating surface water drainage;
      (2)   Conforms to all village approved final engineering plans
specifications;
      (3)   Conforms with the grading survey, including the final grade.
   (D)   Timely installation of landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be installed within three months of occupancy
permit issuance. If the occupancy is granted in the months of October,
November, December, January, or February, the three- month timeline shall begin
on the first date of March to occur following occupancy.
      (2)   At a minimum, landscaping shall include front yard sod (no seed)
and rear yard grass cover (seed or sod).
      (3)   If all landscaping is not completed prior to the permit within the
allowed time, the village shall complete the landscaping, either itself or by
its agent, and deduct all costs and expenses from the $1,000 deposit held by
the village. In addition, the village will have other such remedies to require
the property owner to complete landscaping as required.
      (4)   If the applicant (General Contractor) fails to submit the final
grading certificate to the village within the time permitted under this
section, the General Contractor shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50
nor more than $500 for each day the violation occurs and in addition thereto,
such failure is prima facia evidence for the revocation of the General
Contractor’s license to conduct business in the village.
(Ord. 1469, passed 7-18-94; Am. Ord. 2416, passed 9-17-07)
§ 150.76 LANDSCAPE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Landscaping applications. Prior to the landscaping of any new
building, the property owner(s) must submit a detailed application showing,
among other things:
      (1)   Plat of survey conforming to the grading survey;
      (2)   Location, type and size of any and all trees, shrubs, fencing,
other landscaping amenities, grass areas and location of berms, drainage
easements and swales, if applicable;
      (3)   Location of underground sprinklers, if any (additional permit
required for sprinkling systems);
      (4)   Location of drain tiles, down spouts and sump pump discharge.
   (B)   Landscaping permit. The village will issue a landscaping permit to the
property owner upon completion of the following:
      (1)   Submittal of landscaping application in conformance with village
ordinances and regulations;
      (2)   Payment to the village of a permit fee in an amount to be
determined from time to time;
      (3)   Receipt and approval of all certifications required under all
ordinances and regulations regulating grading with the village (Grading
Certificate);
      (4)   A security deposit in the sum of $1,000 to ensure all landscaping
will be completed within six months of the date of the issuance of the
landscaping permit.
   (C)   Time to complete landscaping. All landscaping must be completed within
six months of the date of the issuance of the permit. The Village Administrator
is authorized to extend the permit date for 30 days based solely on adverse
weather conditions.
   (D)   Failure to timely complete landscaping. If all landscaping is not
completed prior to the permit within the allowed time, the $1,000 deposit is
forfeited by the property owner to the village. In addition, the village will
have other such remedies to require the property owner to complete landscaping
as required.
   (E)   Deposit refund/certification. If the landscaping is timely completed
in accordance with the permit, the village will return the $1,000 deposit to
the property owner, without interest. At the time of request for and prior to
any refund, the property owner(s) shall give the village a current
topographical survey by an Illinois licensed surveyor or engineer certifying,
among other things:
      (1)   The final finished grade after installation of all landscaping
complies with all applicable village ordinances and regulations. The final
village approved engineering grade and drainage plans and specifications for
the development of the property; and
      (2)   There are no obstructions within drainage way.
(Ord. 1469, passed 7-18-94)
§ 150.77 DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A building permit shall be required for the demolition of a building
or structure, or part thereof, greater than 300 square feet in area. The
following supporting documents must be submitted with the completed building
permit application:
      (1)   Plat of survey;
      (2)   Site grading plan to include:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the civil engineers
responsible for the preparation of the plan;
         (b)   Scale of the drawing;
         (c)   Site address;
         (d)   Location of the proposed areas of excavation, fill, storage and
disposal of earth materials;
         (e)   Delineation of the measures that will be used to control surface
erosion and runoff from the site per the requirements of the EPA and the storm
water pollution and prevention plan.
         (f)   Applicant shall provide plan for site restoration efforts that
included final grading of the property after the structure or structures have
been removed, sod installation, or grass seed and blanket installation not
dependent on the time of the year, unless a new construction building permit
has already been issued and construction proceeds in a timely fashion,
typically within 30 days of the start of the demolition process; and
         (g)   Applicant shall have site restored in accordance of the approved
plan, within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the demolition permit; and
      (3)   Identifying tree plan to include:
         (a)   Location;
         (b)   Size;
         (c)   Species; and
         (d)   Means of protection.
   (B)   Construction site safety and cleanliness standard.
      (1)   All demolition sites shall be enclosed by a continuous chain link
fence six feet in height which shall be anchored sufficiently to resist wind
loads of 30 pounds per square foot without deflection of more than three inches
between the top and bottom of fence. The fence shall not contain any
advertisements and shall include a fabric mesh to be affixed to the back of the
fence that should encompass the fence from the top rail to the bottom rail
around the perimeter of the property. Demolition permits will not be issued
until building department personnel have verified the placement of said fence.
      (2)   The construction site fence shall be placed around the perimeter of
the property or, for work in an area substantially smaller than the entire
property, around the site of construction large enough to ensure sufficient
room for movement of tools and workers and the safety of the public. This fence
shall remain around the perimeter of the property until the excavated hole has
been filled and graded.
      (3)   All dumpsters or debris collectors shall be stored behind the
construction site fence and shall be regularly serviced to avoid overfilling.
Construction materials and materials waiting for disposal shall be gathered
daily and piled in a neat and orderly manner. Any person or entity applying for
a demolition permit is responsible to comply with any and all applicable
regulations pertaining to the safe disposal of construction debris and
materials.
      (4)   The applicant or any subsidiaries shall take all necessary steps to
ensure that dirt and debris from the construction site is not to be transmitted
by vehicles leaving the site to the public way. In the event that dirt or
debris is removed from the construction site onto the public way, the
responsible party shall be accountable for restoring the area to its previous
condition, within a timely manner, at least daily. Mitigation measures can
include, but are not limited to: stoning or paving of construction site
entrances, wheel wash stations, and street sweepers.
(Ord. 3008, passed 1-19-16) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
150.03 shall be fined for not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each
offense. Each day that a person so violates the provisions hereof, shall be
deemed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 868, passed 7-1-74)
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §
150.05 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense and
shall be subject to revocation or suspension of the business license for that
establishment. Each day that a violation exists shall be deemed to be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1535, passed 9-18-95)
   (C)   (1)   At any violation of any provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.27 or any of the codes adopted herein as codes established for the village
shall be punished by a fine of not less than not less than $50 nor more than
$750 for each offense and that each day that violation exists shall be
considered a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties in (B)(1) above, the village shall
have all other remedies available to it either in law or jury.
(Ord. 1478, passed 10-17-94)
   (D)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies or any provision
of penalties provided or available in law or equity, any person, entity,
business or corporation which violates §
150.30 shall pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each day
of such violation with each day constituting a separate violation.
   (E)   In addition to all other remedies to the village at law or equity, any
contractor who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
150.50 through 150.58 shall be fined not less than $50 or not more than $750
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1198, passed 11-23-87)
   (F)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies or any provision
of penalties provided or available in law or equity, any person, entity,
business or corporation which violates §
150.77 shall pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each day
of such violation with each day constituting a separate violation. (Ord. 3008,
passed 1-19-16)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 2513, passed 9-15-08)
CHAPTER 151: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statement of purpose
   
151.002   General standards
   
151.003   Design and construction
   
151.004   Uniform sign plan
   
151.005   Definitions
   
151.006   Prohibited signs
   
151.007   Exemptions
Sign Administration
   
151.020   Building permit required
   
151.021   Permit process for permanent signs
   
151.022   Permit issuance
   
151.023   Permit and inspection fees
   
151.024   Sign permit expiration
   
151.025   Sign appeals process
Signs Permitted by Zoning District
   
151.040   Residential Zoning District (ER, R1, R2, R3 and R4)
   
151.041   Commercial Zoning District (B1, B2, B3 and B4)
   
151.042   Industrial Zoning District (I1 and I2)
   
151.043   Office Research Zoning District (OR)
   
151.044   Downtown Historic District (HI)
Sign Standards for Specific Sign Types
   
151.060   Fuel station signs
   
151.061   Automotive dealer signs
   
151.062   Theater signs
   
151.063   Church, school, park district or other public/quasi-public
institutions
   
151.064   Directory/directional signs
   
151.065   Drive-up (drive-through) window facility signs
Temporary Signs Permitted by Zoning District
   
151.075   Special event signs
   
151.076   Residential Zoning Districts (ER, HR, R1, R2, R3 and R4)
   
151.077   Commercial, Industrial, and Office Research Districts (B1, B2, B3,
B4, I1, I2, and OR)
   
151.078   Downtown Historic District (HI)
   
151.079   Civic organizations
   
151.080   Political signs (all districts)
Signage Enforcement
   
151.100   Enforcement official
   
151.101   Maintenance; removal
   
151.102   Legal non-conforming status of existing signs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to create the legal framework for a
comprehensive and balanced system of signage control and thereby to provide an
attractive and effective balance between signage and the environment. This
chapter shall be enforced and administered with the support of the signage
regulations stated in the village Building Code (2000 International Building
Code). These provisions are available to the public for their use and review at
the Village Administration Building, 432 W. Nebraska Ave., Frankfort, Illinois.
In any instances of conflict between these two regulatory documents, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   With these concepts in mind, this chapter is adopted for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To authorize the uses of signs which are:
         (a)   Compatible with their surroundings;
         (b)   Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain;
         (c)   Expressive of their identity of individuals or of the community
as a whole; and
         (d)   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
      (2)   To preserve the Village of Frankfort's reputation as a community of
natural beauty rendering it highly attractive to visitors and potential future
residents, the Village Board has determined the unregulated and uncontrolled
erection and maintenance of signs results in a gaudy and garish atmosphere that
is out of harmony with the character of the village. The Village Board further
determines that the lack of regulation and control of signs results in costly
and unfair competition for the public eye through the proliferation, increased
height, and size of signs, and that the safety of the general public requires
that the structural elements and location of the signs be regulated.
      (3)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare of its residents.
      (4)   To provide a positive economic climate for the business and
industry of the village by promoting the reasonable, orderly, and effective
display of signage and encouraging better communication with the public, and to
provide information to the traveling public.
      (5)   To enhance the physical appearance of the village by preserving the
scenic and natural beauty of the area.
      (6)   To protect the general public from damage and injury which may be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of signs within the
village.
      (7)   To protect the pedestrians and motorists from damage or injury
caused by the distractions, obstructions, and hazards created by certain signs.
      (8)   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by
reducing distractions that may increase traffic accidents.
      (9)   To protect the physical and mental well-being of the general public
by recognizing and encouraging a sense of appreciation for the visual
environment.
      (10)   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses.
      (11)   To encourage sound practices and lessen the objectionable effects
of competition in respect to and placement of signs.
   (C)   It is also the intent of this chapter to recognize that the eventual
elimination of existing signs that do not conform with the provisions of this
chapter is as important as is prohibiting new signs that would violate these
regulations.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.002 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permanent business signs are intended to be used for business
identification. The design of permanent signs and the information placed on
them should be focused on identifying the location of the business and its
name.
   (B)   Temporary signs are intended to be used for advertising. Temporary
signs are expected to contain information regarding sales, special events,
business promotions, and other events which occur over a limited time.
   (C)   Both faces of a dual faced sign shall contain the same words, artwork
and logo.
   (D)   All signs erected, maintained, constructed, relocated, modified, or
altered in any way for each zoning district must adhere to the following
regulations. Any signage not provided for in the following provisions shall be
deemed prohibited.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.003 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The general requirements for all signs are listed in the village Building
Code, Chapter 29, and are incorporated into this section in its entirety by
reference.
   (A)   Electrical requirements.
      (1)   The electrical components, connections, and installations of all
signs shall conform to the provisions of the village Electric Code. Electric
signs shall be constructed of incombustible material. Electric signs shall be
rain-tight, except that service hole fitted with waterproof covers shall be
provided to each compartment of such signs. All electric signs hereafter
installed or erected in the village shall bear the label of Underwriter's
Laboratories, Inc.
      (2)   No electrical equipment or electrical apparatus of any kind which
causes interference with radio or television reception shall be used in the
operation of illuminated signs.
      (3)   All sources of illumination shall be kept in good working order.
   (B)   Wind pressure and load requirements. All signs shall be designed to
withstand a wind pressure as required in the Building Code of the village and/
or other applicable village chapter and codes.
   (C)   Signs structure and support requirements.
      (1)   All signs shall be designed so that all framework for the lateral
support of the sign shall be contained within the sign's body or within the
structure of the building to which the sign is attached so as not to be visible
to the public.
      (2)   Exposed guy wires, chains or other similar connections attached to
the ground posing a threat to pedestrian safety are not permitted to serve as
supports for a sign.
      (3)   If the supports or anchors of the sign are not galvanized or
constructed of a non-combustible, corrosive-resistant material, they shall be
painted as necessary to prevent corrosion and peeling.
   (D)   Sign face. No sign or sign structure shall have any nails, tacks,
wires, or sharp edges protruding from it. Exposed neon tubing shall be
prohibited on all signs located on an exterior wall surface or displayed on a
storefront window.
   (E)   Miscellaneous advertising objects. No person shall place on or suspend
from any building or structure, any goods, wares, merchandise, or other
advertising objects other than a sign as defined with these provisions.
   (F)   Glass requirements. Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be
designed to the ANSI Z97.1 standard and shall be in compliance with all
applicable village codes and chapters.
   (G)   Location. No signs shall cover wholly or partially any opening, nor
project beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is attached. No sign
shall project into or otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way.
   (H)   Lettering. All letters, figures, characters, or representations in
cut-out or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to, or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built into or attached
to the sign.
   (I)   Obstruction of exits. No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct any
fire escape, required exit, window, or door opening intended as a means of
egress.
   (J)   Obstruction of ventilation. No sign shall be erected which interferes
with any opening required for ventilation.
   (K)   Clearance from electrical power lines and communication lines. Signs
shall maintain all clearances from electrical conductors in accordance with all
applicable village codes and chapters, except where specified within this
chapter.
   (L)   Clearance from surface and underground facilities. Signs and their
supporting structures shall maintain clearance and noninterference with all
surface and underground facilities and conduits for water, sewage, gas,
electricity, or communications equipment or lines. Furthermore, placement shall
not interfere with natural or artificial drainage or surface or underground
water.
   (M)   Sign illumination requirements. 
      (1)   Signs shall be illuminated only be steady, stationary, shielded and
shaded light sources directed solely at the sign, or internal to it so that the
light intensity or brightness does not create either a nuisance to adjacent
property or a traffic hazard for motorists or pedestrians.
      (2)   No exposed reflective-type bulb and no strobe light or incandescent
lamp shall be used on the exterior surface of any sign.
      (3)   Illuminated signs shall produce no more than 30 foot-candles (323
nits) of illumination, four feet from the sign. Drive-through digital order
screens, drive-through menu boards, and drive-through pre-sale menu boards, and
the digital changeable copy portion of any free-standing fuel station sign
shall produce no more than 3,000 nits (278.71 foot-candles) and shall include
automatic dimming technology such that they shall produce no more than 0.3
foot-candles of illumination above ambient light levels at any time of
illumination.
      (4)   Whenever external illumination is used for a sign, the source of
light shall be located, shielded, and directed in such a manner that the light
source is not visible from a public street or private residence.
   (N)   Raceways. If a sign is mounted to a raceway, the color of the raceway
shall match the color of the exterior of the building.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 3338, passed 2-7-22)
§ 151.004 UNIFORM SIGN PLAN.
   (A)   Required. A uniform sign plan is required for all planned unit
developments and all multi-tenant developments before any signs for such
development may be erected on the property. All owners, tenants, subtenants and
purchasers of individual units within the development shall comply with the
approved uniform sign plan.
   (B)   Elements. The uniform sign plan shall include the following
information for all signs:
      (1)   The design, materials of construction, colors (graphically
depicted), lighting and dimensions shall be clearly illustrated.
      (2)   A site plan drawn to scale to show the location of each sign.
      (3)   Elevations: All signs are to be illustrated and dimensioned in
elevation drawings. When a sign is attached to a building, the illustration
shall be a composite of the sign and the building, rendered to scale.
      (4)   Additional information must be included to establish regulations to
ensure that signs are consistent and attractive. The required information is as
follows:
         (a)   Size standard: The size for the monument sign and wall sign
shall be defined and outline in the uniform sign plan if different from the
standards set forth in this chapter.
         (b)   Sign color: Each wall sign must be of a common color except
anchor tenants may have up to three colors. The colors selected shall be
coordinated with colors of the materials used for the associated building.
         (c)   Sign material: The uniform sign plan shall note the materials
for the monument sign, as well as establishing a specific type of material for
all wall signs, including a common method of illumination.
   (B)   Review. The uniform sign plan shall be subject to approval by the code
official.
   (C)   Review criteria. A uniform sign plan for planned unit developments and
multi-building, multi-tenant occupied buildings shall not be approved until and
unless the code official finds that:
      (1)   The plan provides that signs of a similar type and function within
the development will have a consistent color scheme and material construction;
      (2)   The plan provides for signs that meet the size limitations,
location requirements and other applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Amendment procedure. Amendment to a uniform sign plan must be approved
by the code official in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Application must be filed by the owner of the land affected by the
proposed change, or an agent, lessee or contract purchaser specifically
authorized by the owner in writing.
      (2)   All amendments shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Effect. After approval of a uniform sign plan, or an amended uniform
sign plan, no sign shall be erected, placed, painted, or maintained, except in
accordance with such plan, and such plan may be enforced in the same way as any
provision of this chapter. In case of any conflict between a provision of a
uniform sign plan and one or more provisions of this chapter, the stricter of
the two shall apply.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY SIGNS TO THEATERS. Theater posters that display current,
forthcoming movies or performances and show times.
   A-FRAME SIGN. A temporary double-sided sign typically connected at the top
and separated at the bottom to form an "A" when in use. For the purpose of this
chapter an A-framed sign is also referred to as a sandwich board sign. See
Figure 1.
Figure 1 - A-frame sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
   ANCHOR TENANT. The major or primary tenant in a multi-tenant building or
shopping center with a minimum floor area of 25,000 square feet.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign or any part of which by design, changes physical
position by any movement, or creates the appearance of movement.
   APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Any material more than 1/20 of an inch in
thickness which burns at a rate of not more than 2 1/2 inches per minute when
subjected to the American Society for Testing Material (ASTM) standard test for
flammability in sheets six-hundredths inches in thickness.
   AREA. That area enclosed by one continuous line, connecting the extreme
points or edges of a sign. This area does not include the main supporting sign
structure, but all other ornamental attachments, inner connecting links, and
the like, which are not a part of the main supports of the signs are to be
included in determining sign area. The area shall be determined by drawing an
imaginary square or rectangle envelopes so as to completely enclose each entire
symbol, word, phrase, title, and or name appearing on the sign and computing
the sum of all such geometric figures.
Figure 2 - Calculating area of both wall and freestanding signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
   ATTENTION-GETTING DEVICES. Any pennant, flag, valance, banner, propeller,
spinner, streamer, search-light or similar device or ornamentation designed for
or intended to attract attention to it for the purpose of promotion or
advertising.
   AWNING. Any structure made of cloth, metal, or other material attached to a
building which is constructed so as to permit its being raised or retracted to
a position against the building when not in use, or any structure designed to
simulate such construction, such as a "back-lit" awning. For purposes of this
chapter, an AWNING containing the name of the business, logo or a combination
of business name and logo, and or colors indicative to the corporate logo will
be considered a wall sign.
   BANNER SIGN. Any sign intended to be hung either with or without frames,
possessing characters, letters, illustrations, or ornamentations applied to
paper, plastic, or fabric of any kind. National flags, flags of political
subdivisions, and symbolic flags of any institution shall not be considered
banners for the purposes of this section.
   BARE BULB ILLUMINATION. The use of lighting, which includes but is not
limited to exposed illumination material other than approved sign faces. Such
prohibited illumination may include both internal and external bulbs.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same site as the light source. Also,
any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BENCH SIGN or AD SIGN. A sign located on any part of the surface of a bench
or seat placed on or adjacent to a public right-of-way.
   BILLBOARD, POSTERBOARD or PAINTED WALL. A single or double-faced sign
permanently fixed to or placed upon the premises, which may have "changeable
copy", which is used for display of  information not associated with the
establishment located on the same premises as the sign. Such signs include
walls of a building that are painted to display information that does not
relate to a business or other establishment located in the building.
   BOX SIGN. A translucent back-lit panel, larger than three square feet, which
is applied to the facade of the building.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The length of a building facade that is closest to and
most nearly to with a public right-of-way.
   BUILDING LINE. The line as established by the vertical face of the building
or an extension thereof.
   BUSINESS NAME. Name of a business as represented on a business license or as
registered with state or federal Internal Revenue Service Departments.
   CANOPY. A structure, other than an awning, made of cloth, metal, or other
material with frames attached to a building, or carried by a frame supported by
the ground or sidewalk. For purposes of this chapter, a CANOPY containing the
name of the business, logo or a combination of business name and logo, and or
colors indicative to the corporate logo will be considered a wall sign.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign upon which letters, words, or characters can
separately be placed and replaced in or upon the surface area either manually
or electronically for the purpose of changing the information contained on the
sign.
   CONTRACTOR/CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign giving the name or names of
principal contractors, architects, and lending institutions responsible for
construction on the site where the sign is placed together with other
information included thereon.
   DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A temporary sign used to identify an approved future
development.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS. Signs limited to directional messages, principally for
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, such as "one-way," "entrance," drive-thru,",
and "exit," but does not identify the establishment itself or other goods or
services available at the establishment and does not contain advertising
messages.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign upon which the name and locations of occupants or the
use of a building is given.
   DRIVE-THROUGH DIGITAL ORDER SCREEN. A sign associated with a drive-through
restaurant that uses electronic means such as combinations of LEDs, fiber
optics, light bulbs, or other illumination devices to display order information
for the customer and/or person to person ordering.
   DRIVE-THROUGH MENU BOARD. A sign display associated with a restaurant drive-
through, either located on a wall or as a ground sign, which displays the
varieties of food and drink available to the customer at that restaurant
location only.
   DRIVE-THROUGH PRE-SALE MENU BOARD. Generally, a smaller version of the
drive-through menu board which is located in proximity to but in advance of the
drive-through menu board and displays the food and drink options available to
the customer at that restaurant location only.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER of the village shall have
the duty of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   EXTERIOR WALL SURFACE. The most exterior part of a wall, sunscreen, or any
screening or material covering a building.
   FACADE. Exterior wall of a building that is exposed to public view.
   FESTOON LIGHTING. A group of two or more incandescent light bulbs hung or
strung overhead between two points, not on a building or structure, which are
visible to persons on a public right-of-way, or which are not shaded or hooded
so as to prevent the direct rays of light from being visible from beyond the
property on which the lights are located.
   FLAG. A symbol or a crest of either a nation or an organization of nations,
a state, a municipality or a fraternal, religious, civic organization, or
corporation. For the purpose of this chapter, any FLAG containing the corporate
logo of a business will be considered a wall sign.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign which exhibits
changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means whatsoever.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign completely self-supported by two six-by-six or
four-by-four wood posts, not exceeding two foot, or a solid base constructed of
a masonry material which is independent of any building or other structure and
anchored in or upon the ground. See Figure 3.
Figure 3 - Freestanding sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
   FRONTAGE. (See BUILDING FRONTAGE or STORE FRONTAGE.)
   HEIGHT, FREESTANDING SIGNS. The vertical distance from average adjacent
ground level, within five feet of the sign, to the top of the sign including
the support structure and any design element. See Figure 3.
   HEIGHT, WALL SIGN. The vertical dimension of the imaginary box drawn so as
to completely enclose each entire symbol, word, phrase, title, or name
appearing on the sign and computing the sum of all such geometric figures.
Figure 4 - Wall sign height
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
   HUMAN SIGN. Animals, or human beings, live or simulated, holding, or
carrying a sign, designed or used so as to attract attention to the premises or
activity.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN (EXTERNAL). A sign illuminated by a source of light which
is cast upon the exterior surface or face of the sign to illuminate the sign by
reflection.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN (INTERNAL). A sign which is illuminated by incandescent and
other types of lighting sources from within or behind the sign so to reflect
light through the sign.
   INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of 1200° Fahrenheit and will not continue to burn or glow at that
temperature.
   INFLATABLE SIGNS. Any hollow item or character expanded or enlarged by the
use of air or gas for the purposes of advertisement, including tethered
balloons. For purposes of this chapter, an INFLATABLE SIGN shall be considered
a temporary sign.
   INFORMATIONAL TRAFFIC SIGN. A sign directing and guiding automotive or
pedestrian traffic which bears no advertising matter.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign identifying a public, charitable, or religious
institution which is located on the premises of such an institution.
   LOGO. A symbol, color, or other graphic representation specifically
attributable to a business. LOGOS shall not include slogans, phrases, or words
that arc not considered part of the business name. The LOGO must be a
registered trademark of the subject business.
   MEMORIAL SIGN. A commemorative sign or tablet cut into masonry or inlaid as
a part of a building.
   MOVING SIGN. Any sign, which by design, rotates, moves, or gives the visual
impression of rotation or moving.
   MULTIPLE TENANT/MULTIPLE STOREFRONT USE/COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, OR OFFICE
RESEARCH. A commercial, industrial or office research development in which
there exists a number of separate activities, in which there are appurtenant
shared facilities (such as parking or pedestrian areas), and which is designed
to provide a single area in which the public can obtain varied products and/or
services. Distinguishing characteristics of a MULTIPLE TENANT/MULTIPLE
STOREFRONT COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR OFFICE RESEARCH development may, but need
not, include common ownership of the real property upon which the center is
located, common-wall construction, and multiple-occupant commercial or
industrial use of single structure.
   NAMEPLATE. A sign which displays only the name and/or address of the
occupant and is non-electrical.
   NATURE OF BUSINESS. A descriptive word or term whose purpose is to describe
the primary function of a business, excluding definition of product (i.e. pets,
spas, pools), product advertisement and slogans.
   NEON SIGNS. Any sign that is partially or completely illuminated by one or
more directly visible neon tube light sources, or similar types of lighting,
such as bare bulb illumination or simulated neon.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign which does not conform to this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a commercial use,
business, commodity, service, or activity not conducted, sold or offered upon
the premises where the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign related solely to a use, business, or profession
conducted, or to a principal commodity, service, or entertainment sold,
provided, or offered upon the premises where the sign is located.
   PARKING SIGN. A sign which identifies a parking area for automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles, or any other motor vehicle.
   PENNANT. A series of small flags of triangular or other geometric design
tied together by a rope or other means; and used as an attention-getting
device.
   POLE SIGN. A freestanding sign which is supported by one or more uprights or
braces greater than two feet in height that are no more than 12 inches in
diameter and not attached or braced by any other structure.
   POLE-MOUNTED SHINGLE SIGN. A small (four square feet or less) shingle sign
mounted on a wood pole or post.
   POLITICAL/CAMPAIGN SIGN. A sign or poster identifying or publicizing a
candidate seeking public office or identifying or publicizing a public issue or
advocating a position with respect to a public issue.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not designed to be permanently attached to a
building or anchored to the ground; any sign that is not permanently affixed to
a building, structure or the ground; a sign designed to be moved from place to
place. These signs include but are not limited to signs attached to wood or
metal frames designed to be self-supporting and movable, paper, cardboard or
canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign other than a wall sign affixed to any building or
wall whose leading edge extends beyond such building or wall, but whose face is
perpendicular to the building.
   PROJECTION SIGNS. A sign created by projecting light onto a surface such as
a building or similar structure.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land or interest therein, acquired for or devoted
to any public way for vehicular or pedestrian travel which has been laid out in
pursuance of any municipal, township, county, state, or federal law.
   PUBLIC SIGN. A sign or notice erected or whose erection was required by a
unit of government.
   PYLON SIGN. (See POLE SIGN.)
   RACEWAY. The structural support for letter and symbols of a wall mounted
sign.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign erected for purposes of identifying a parcel or
building to be available for sale, rental or lease.
   RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN
(PERMANENT). A permanent sign designed to identify a residential, commercial,
or industrial subdivision, planned unit development, or other development which
is located at the entrance to the development.
   ROAD FRONTAGE. Frontage of a building located on a public right-of-way or
main point of ingress/egress to a commercial or industrial development.
   ROOF LINE. Either the edge of the roof or top of the parapet whichever forms
the top line of the building silhouette. Where a building has several levels,
the roof line shall be the roof or parapet of that portion of the building.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected, constructed, or maintained in whole or in part
upon or over the roof of a building or a structure.
   SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. (See A-FRAME SIGN.)
   SIGN. Any device designed to inform, advertise, notify, or otherwise impart
information about any business, special event. or other public or private
purpose or attract the attention of persons on or off the premises on which the
sign is located. SIGNS shall mean any surface, fabric, device, or display which
bears lettered, pictorial, or sculptured matter, including forms shaped to
resemble any human, animal, or product, designed to convey information visually
and which is exposed to public view. For purposes of this chapter, a SIGN shall
include colors on a canopy or awning that are indicative of the corporate logo.
SIGN includes but is not limited to every type of sign listed in this section.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. A structure constructed for the primary purpose of
displaying a sign.
   SLOGAN. A brief attention-getting phrase used in advertising, promotion or
identification of a product or company.
   SOFFIT SIGN. A sign no greater than four square feet suspended from a
soffit, roof overhang, covered walkway, covered porch, or open lattice walkway.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. A temporary sign used to advertise a one time event or
sale.
   STORE FRONTAGE. The length of a building facade specifically attributable to
a single commercial or industrial business that includes the principal point of
access to the business.
   STRUCTURE FRONTAGE. (See BUILDING FRONTAGE.)
   STRUCTURAL TRIM. Any molding, batten, capping, nailing strip, lattice or
platform, which is attached to a sign structure.
   SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN, PERMANENT. A permanent sign that is placed
at the entrance to a residential development in order to identify the name of
the development.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, wood/plywood,
or other light materials, with or without a frame, that is not permanently
mounted to the ground or building.
   THEATER. A fully-enclosed building with fixed seats arranged in an
auditorium fashion, where motion pictures or live entertainment acts are
presented.
   UNIFORM SIGN PLAN. A plan designed to show the relationship of signs for any
cluster of buildings, a planned unit development, or any single building
housing a number of users, or in any arrangement of buildings or shops which
constitute a visual entity as a whole.
   VEHICLE SIGN. Any advertising or business sign attached to a transportation
vehicle for the purpose of identification or advertising a business, public or
quasi-public institution.
   WALL SIGN. A sign or individual letters, symbols, or combinations thereof
painted, mounted, or attached to the exterior of a building or structure in a
plan parallel to that of the wall to which it is painted, mounted or attached.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign or individual letters, symbols, or combinations thereof
placed inside or upon a window facing the outside and which is intended to be
seen from the exterior.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2691, passed 1-24-11; Am. Ord. 3338,
passed 2-7-22)
§ 151.006 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain:
   (A)   Any sign which is not included under the types of signs permitted in a
district or the general regulations of this section.
   (B)   Any sign which advertises or publicizes an activity not conducted on
the premises upon which such sign is maintained, except as permitted for
temporary signs in residential districts.
   (C)   Changeable copy signs, except as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   Projecting signs, except as permitted in the Historical district.
   (E)   Flashing signs.
   (F)   Any sign which rotates, revolves, or has any visible moving part, or
gives the appearance of movement.
   (G)   Pennants, streamers, festoons lighting, and other attention-getting
device.
   (H)   Inflatable signs, except as permitted by §
151.075(C)(3) of this chapter.
   (I)   Any signs attached to any tree, fence, or public utility pole other
than warning signs issued by public utilities.
   (J)   Bare bulb illumination.
   (K)   Flame as a source of light.
   (L)   Portable signs, except as permitted via a temporary sign permit as
described in this chapter.
   (M)   Any sign or sign structure which constitutes a hazard to public health
or safety.
   (N)    Billboards, as defined in this chapter.
   (O)   Vehicle signs, unless the vehicle is used for deliveries or an
activity related to the subject business. The parking of a vehicle containing a
vehicle sign in a manor that serves as an advertisement for the business is
strictly prohibited.
   (P)   Roof signs or signs where any portion of the sign extends above the
roof of the building where the sign is located.
   (Q)   Pylon or pole signs, as defined in this chapter.
   (R)   Any sign and or sign structure which obstructs the view of, may be
confused with or purports to be, a governmental or traffic direction/safety
sign.
   (S)   No sign shall be permitted to contain statement, words, or pictures of
any obscene, pornographic, immoral character, or which contain advertising
matter which is untruthful.
   (T)   Signs which emit visible smoke, vapor, particles, or odor.
   (U)   Projection signs.
   (V)   Signs painted on a fence.
   (W)   Strings of light bulbs used in connection with commercial premises for
commercial advertising purposes, other than traditional holiday decorations.
   (X)   Beacon.
   (Y)   Neon and other similar type signs (visible or exposed bare bulb)
located in such a manner as to attract public attention from outside the
building. Specifically, this refers to neon and other similar signs that
contain a message clearly intended for public recognition outside the building,
or is clearly legible from the public right-of-way or adjacent property,
including but not limited to, such signs as “drive thru,” “vacant,” “sale” and
other similar signs. For the purpose of this chapter, simulated neon is
included in this regulation.
   (Z)   Any sign attached to gas pumps or gas pump islands that can be read or
understood from a location off the property except as provided for in this
chapter.
   (AA)   Box signs, except as outlined in this chapter.
   (BB)   Backlit canopies/awnings.
   (CC)   Outdoor umbrella that contain any business name, logo, slogan, or
contains more than two colors.
   (DD)   Internally illuminated wall signs in the B-4 and H-1 districts.
   (EE)   Freestanding signs in the H-1 district.
   (FF)   Plastic awnings.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2593, passed 6-1-09)
§ 151.007 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the
following signs, nor shall the area of such signs be included in the area of
signage permitted for any establishment, provided they do not violate any
regulations as outlined in this chapter under §
151.006.
   (A)   Traffic or other municipal street graphics such as railroad crossing
signs, legal notices, and such temporary emergency signs as may be authorized
by the Village Board.
   (B)   Signs of public utility companies indicating danger or which serve as
an aid to public safety or which show the location of underground facilities or
of public telephones. Such signs shall not exceed five square feet, unless
otherwise required or mandated by state statute.
   (C)   Address numbers located on the lot to which the sign is appurtenant
and not exceeding four square feet in area.
   (D)   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an enclosed
interior lobby or court of any building; the signs are to be designed and
located to be viewed exclusively by patrons of such use or uses.
   (E)   Seasonal decorations temporarily displayed in connection with a local
festivity approved by the Village Board; or for a national holiday. Such
decorations may not be used for advertising purposes, or for sale of product,
and shall have a time limit on display of 45 days.
   (F)   "No Trespassing" signs or other such signs regulating the use of a
property, such as "No Hunting," "No Fishing," and the like, of no more than two
square feet in area.
   (G)   United States flag, and/or any other single flag emblems or insignia
of any nation or political subdivision. Flags used as "attention getting
devices" or oversized flags that may cause a noise nuisance or act as a life
safety hazard are subject to removal upon investigation by a code official.
   (H)   Memorial signs or tablets which identify the names of buildings and
the date of erection, and nameplate signs when cut into any masonry surface or
inlaid so as to be part of the building or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible material; not to exceed six square feet in area.
   (I)   Public identification signs erected, required, or authorized by
governmental bodies, or authorized for a public purpose by any law, statute, or
chapter, including community identification signs as approved by the village.
   (J)   Information signs such as "business hour signs," "help wanted signs,"
not to exceed one square foot in area.
   (K)   “Open” signs. One illuminated open sign may be displayed in any
location within a business establishment with the word “open” on it. The sign
shall be limited to one color and may not exceed two square feet in size. Open
signs may not flash, flicker or alternate colors.
   (L)   Any sign inside an athletic field or other enclosed outdoor space,
where the sign is not legible from more than three feet beyond the lot line on
the site on which it is located.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2593, passed 6-1-09)
SIGN ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or firm shall erect, alter, repair, or relocate any sign without
first obtaining a sign permit for such work from the code official of the
village. No permit shall be issued until the code official determines that such
work is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the village
Building Code. Each permitted sign shall be assigned an identification number
and a tag containing the identification number shall be affixed to the sign.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.021 PERMIT PROCESS FOR PERMANENT SIGNS.
   (A)   Every applicant for sign permit shall be accompanied by plans, drawn
to scale, and including:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or persons
entitled to possession of the sign and of the sign contractor.
      (2)   The location by street address of the proposed sign structure.
      (3)   The dimensions of the sign, and where applicable, the dimensions of
the wall surface it is to be attached.
      (4)   The distance the sign is set back from the property line, building/
store frontage, and the road on which the associated building or planned unit
development is located.
      (5)   The dimensions of the sign's supporting members.
      (6)   A color sample of the proposed sign.
      (7)   The proposed location of the sign in relation to the face of the
building, in front of which or above which it is to be erected.
      (8)   The proposed location of the sign in relation to the boundaries of
the lot upon which it is to be situated.
      (9)   When the sign is proposed to be attached to an existing building, a
current photograph of the face of the building to which the sign is to be
attached.
      (10)   If the proposed sign is to be illuminated in any manner, the
proposed method of illumination and the amount of light generated in foot-
candles is to be submitted.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.022 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the code official upon receipt of an
application to examine such plans and other data, including the premises upon
which the sign is proposed. If the application and supporting data are
determined to be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and Article
29 of the village Building Code, a permit shall be issued.
   (B)   If a permit is not obtained within 90 days after the applicant has
been notified that the plans are approved, the code official shall assume that
the application is withdrawn and may destroy the plans and supporting
documentation. Renewed action on the plans shall require a new set of plans and
new fees.
   (C)   The code official shall examine and reject or approve in writing
within 15 working days following any full completed application for sign
permit. If the application does not conform to the requirements of the chapter,
the applicant will be notified in writing within this time stating the reasons
for the rejection.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.023 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   The permit fee shall be:
 
Sign Valuation      Required Fees
Under $100          $10
$100 - $500         $50
Over $500           $50 plus $10 per $100 valuation over $500
Maximum Fee         $200
All Temporary Signs $30
 
   (B)   The inspection and identification fee shall be $30 for all newly
erected or substantially repaired or remodeled signs. A sign is considered
substantially repaired or remodeled when the cost of the work exceeds $300.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.024 SIGN PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   If the work authorized by a sign permit has not been completed within six
months after the date of initiation of construction, the permit shall become
null and void, and there shall be no refund of any fee by this section.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.025 SIGN APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   Appeal procedure; application for appeal. Any person shall have the
right to appeal to the Sign Appeals Committee from a decision of the code
official refusing to grant a modification to the provisions of this code
covering the manner of construction or materials to be used in the erection,
alteration or repair of a sign or sign structure. An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted there under has been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of construction can be
used.
   (B)   Sign appeals committee.
      (1)   Membership of Committee- The Sign Appeals Committee shall consist
of five members including the Mayor, a Village Trustee and three residents of
the village.
      (2)   Chairman- The Committee shall annually select one of its members to
serve as chairman.
      (3)   Disqualification of member- A member shall not hear an appeal in
which the member has any personal, professional, or financial interest.
      (4)   Secretary- The Village Administrator shall designate a qualified
clerk to serve as secretary to the Committee. The secretary shall file a
detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the Village Administrator.
      (5)   Procedure- The Committee shall adopt and make available to the
public, through the secretary, procedures under which a hearing will be
conducted. The procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of
evidence but shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
   (C)   Jurisdiction and authority.
      (1)   The Sign Appeals Committee shall review all applications and
amendments to this chapter and report said findings and recommendations to the
Village Board in the prescribed manner.
      (2)   The Sign Appeals Committee shall receive from the code official
their recommendations, as related to the effectiveness of this chapter, and
report any conclusions and recommendations to the Village Board on an as-needed
basis.
      (3)   Committee decision - The Committee shall make recommendations to
the Village Board upon the concurrence of three or more members of the
Committee decision of the committee. The Village Board may grant or deny the
application.
      (4)   Resolution - The decision of the Village Board shall be by
ordinance. Certified copies shall be furnished to the applicant and to the code
official.
      (5)   Administration- The code official shall take immediate action in
accord with the decision of the Village Board.
      (6)   Court review- Any person, whether or not a previous part of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a write of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
SIGNS PERMITTED BY ZONING DISTRICT
§ 151.040 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT (ER, R1, R2 R3 AND R4).
   The following signs are permitted signs that can be placed on property that
is zoned ER, R1, R2, R3 and R4. This section does not include signage
regulations for churches, school or other quasi-public institutions, which can
be found under §§
151.060 et seq. Permitted signs within the ER, R1, R2, R3 and R4 zoning
districts are as follows:
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding sign. Regulations of a freestanding sign restrict the
location and the illumination of the sign. For the purpose of this chapter, a
freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported by either a
masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not exceeding a
height of two feet.
         (a)   Location: All freestanding signs shall be located on private
property in appropriate easements no closer than five feet from any property
line or public right-of-way, and not obstruct line of sight from an adjacent
roadway. Each freestanding sign must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of
living plant material in accordance with the landscape ordinance as amended
from time to time. The Traffic Advisory Committee must approve locations of all
freestanding signs.
         (b)   Number: Each residential subdivision is permitted a maximum
number of two freestanding signs per entrance into the development.
         (c)   Illumination: Internal illumination of residential freestanding
signs is prohibited. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003.
         (d)   Materials: All freestanding signs must be of masonry or wood
construction.
         (e)   Items of information: Items of information on a freestanding
sign shall be limited to the name of the residential subdivision, reference to
the Village of Frankfort, and/or subdivision logo.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding sign is six feet in
height to the highest part of the sign or post. The height of the freestanding
sign may be increased 10% to allow for ornamental features.
         (g)   Area: The maximum area of a freestanding sign is 50 square feet
per sign face.
      (2)   Pole-mounted shingle sign. Regulations of a pole-mounted shingle
sign restrict the location, area and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Location: Pole-mounted shingle signs shall be located on private
property in appropriate casements no closer than five feet from any property
line or public right-of-way, and not obstruct lines of sight. The Traffic
Advisory Committee must approve locations of all pole-mounted shingle signs.
         (b)   Number: One pole-mounted shingle sign shall be permitted per
public right-of-way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Internal illumination of a pole-mounted shingle
sign is prohibited. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003.
         (d)   Items of information: Items of information on a pole-mounted
sign shall be limited to the name of the residential subdivision, reference to
the Village of Frankfort, and/or subdivision logo.
         (e)   Height: The maximum height allowed for a pole-mounted shingle
sign is six feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (f)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a pole-mounted shingle sign
is four square feet.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.041 COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT (B1, B2, B3, AND B4).
   The following signs are permitted signs that can be placed on property that
is zoned B1, B2, B3, and B4. This section does not include signage regulations
for fueling stations, movie theaters, automotive dealers, or drive-up (drive-
through) window facilities, which can be found under §§
151.060 et seq. A uniform sign plan is required for all planned unit
developments (PUD), and all multi-building or multi-tenant occupied commercial
developments prior to the erection of any permanent sign. All owners, tenants,
subtenant, and purchasers of individual units within the development shall
comply with the approved uniform sign plan. For requirements of a uniform sign
plan, see §
151.003. Permitted signs within the B1, B2, B3 and B4 zoning districts are as
follows:
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding sign. Regulations of a freestanding sign are
determined by the classification of the road on which the freestanding sign is
located as defined in Exhibit A, as amended from time to time, as well as the
square footage of the associated building(s). (A copy of Exhibit A is on file
at the Clerk’s office.) For the purpose of this chapter, a freestanding sign
shall include all signs that are supported by either a masonry base or two six-
by-six or four-by-four wood supports not exceeding a height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line. Each freestanding sign
must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of living plant material in accordance
with the landscape ordinance as amended from time to time. Only one
freestanding sign may be located on a commercial property per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Freestanding signs may be internally illuminated
or illuminated via spot lighting or similar external forms. Internally
illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with only letters and logo
illuminated. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.101. Internally illuminated box signs are prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: All materials of any freestanding sign shall be
compatible and harmonious with the materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (e)   Colors: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a freestanding sign is limited to three colors, unless
otherwise regulated by the approved uniform sign plan.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information on a freestanding
sign shall include the name of the business(es) or business center, address,
telephone number, and/or business logo.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of the sign for single tenant and
multi-tenant buildings within the B1, B2, B3, and B4 districts is identified by
the following tables (Tables A and B). The height of the freestanding sign may
be increased 10% to allow for ornamental features.
Table A - Maximum Sign Height for Single Tenant Commercial Uses
 
Road Classification                 Maximum Sign Height
Regional Arterial                   7 feet
Community Arterial                  6 feet
Major Collector                     5 feet
Neighborhood Collector/Local Street 4 feet
 
Table B - Maximum Sign Height for Multi-Tenant Commercial Uses
 
Total Building                     Community                 Neighborhood
Size (sq. ft.)   Regional Arterial Arterial  Major Collector Collector/Local
                                                             Street
0 to 9,999       7 feet            6 feet    5 feet          4 feet
10,000 to 24,999 7 feet            6 feet    5 feet          4 feet
25,000 to 49,999 8 feet            7 feet    6 feet          5 feet
50,000 to 99,999 9 feet            8 feet    7 feet          6 feet
100,000 to       11 feet           9 feet    7 feet          6 feet
174,999
175,000 and up   13 feet           11 feet   9 feet          7 feet
 
         (h)   Area: The maximum area for a freestanding sign for both single
tenant and multi-tenant commercial uses is determined by the total square
footage of the building(s). The area of the sign is defined in Table C.
Table C - Maximum Area For A Freestanding Sign
 
Total Building Size (sq. ft.) Area of Sign Face
0 to 9,999                    15 square feet
10,000 to 24,999              20 square feet
25,000 to 49,999              30 square feet
50,000 to 99,999              40 square feet
100,000 to 174,999            50 square feet
175,000 and up                75 square feet
 
         (i)   Text size: The minimum height of the text is determined by the
classification of the road on which the sign is located. Text height will be
measured using the lower case height (or shortest character height) of the font
chosen for each tenant. Only one tenant shall be allowed upon the same
horizontal plane of the sign face. In the case of a multi-tenant commercial
use, the height of the text for the name of the center may be smaller than the
tenant information. The minimum height of text for a freestanding sign is
defined in Table D.
Table D - Minimum Height of Text for a Freestanding Sign
 
Road Classification    Minimum Text Minimum Text Height for Name of Development
                       Height
Regional Arterial      12 inches    9 inches
Community Arterial     10 inches    7 1/2 inches
Major Collector        8 inches     6 inches
Neighborhood Collector 7 inches     6 inches
 
      (2)   Wall sign. Regulations of a wall sign are determined by the linear
frontage of the building on which the sign is erected.
         (a)   Number: For a single tenant business one wall sign shall be
permitted per frontage on public right-of-way or frontage on a main point of
ingress/egress into the commercial development. For a multi-tenant business one
wall sign shall be permitted per store frontage. Those multi-tenant businesses
with frontage on a public right-of-way or with frontage on a main point of
ingress/egress into the commercial development shall be permitted one wall sign
per road frontage. For the purposes of this chapter a business is defined as
having its own secured entrance. Businesses located within another business,
without having a distinct secured entrance, are not considered a separate
business and are not eligible for a wall sign. A business erecting a flag
containing a corporate identification or business logo, shall include the
square footage of the flag, which shall not measure greater than three feet by
five feet, in the total square footage of the allowable wall sign as defined in
this chapter.
         (b)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall signs shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. For multi-tenant buildings, all wall signs must
be aligned on one common centerline. Only one wall sign shall be located on a
building per storefront or road frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated face lit channel letters, reverse channel lit letters, spot
lighting or similar external forms of illumination. Internally illuminated
signs shall have an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated.
All wall sign illumination must be in compliance with §
151.003. Signs within the B4 district are not to be internally illuminated.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to a business, except for multi-tenant business, which must
comply with the approved uniform sign plan. If a wall sign is mounted on a
raceway, the color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the
building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a wall sign
shall be limited to the business name, logo, and/or nature of business.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a wall sign is seven feet.
         (g)   Area: For a single tenant business the maximum area for wall
signage may not exceed one square foot per linear foot of the principal
structure's frontage. For a multi-tenant business the wall sign may not exceed
one square foot per linear foot of each store frontage. For the purposes of
this chapter, area of wall signs shall include text and logos. The maximum area
of a wall sign is 200 square feet; the minimum area is 20 square feet.
      3.   Soffit signs. Regulations of a soffit sign restrict the location,
area and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Location: Soffit signs are to be placed perpendicular to the
public right-of-way or main point of ingress/egress fronting the building on
which the soffit sign is to be located. The soffit sign shall be suspended from
a roof overhang, covered walkway, or covered porch. No part of the suspended
soffit sign shall extend beyond the edge of the overhang. A minimum clearance
of eight feet shall be maintained between the bottom of the sign and the
nearest grade or sidewalk. A soffit sign shall be located adjacent to the
business it identifies.
         (b)   Number: One soffit sign is permitted per store frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Internal illumination of soffit signs is
prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: Sandblasted wood is encouraged for all soffit signs.
Alternative materials are acceptable, however must be compatible and harmonious
with the colors and materials of the building identified by the sign.
         (e)   Items of information: Items of information on the soffit sign
shall be limited to the name of the individual business or building complex.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of a soffit signs is four square feet per
sign face.
      (4)   Permanent window signs. Regulations of a window sign are determined
by a percentage of the total window frontage.
         (a)   Location: Permanent window signs are limited to first floor
windows only.
         (b)   Number: For a single tenant business one window sign shall be
permitted per frontage on public right-of-way or frontage on a main point of
ingress/egress into the development. Text may not encompass more than one
window. For multi-tenant business one window sign shall be permitted per store
frontage. Those multi-tenant businesses with frontage on a public right-of-way
or with frontage on a main point of ingress/egress into the development shall
be allowed one window sign per road frontage. Text may not encompass more than
one window per business. For the purposes of this chapter a business is defined
as having its own secured entrance. Businesses located within another business,
without having a distinct secured entrance, are not considered a separate
business and are not eligible for a window sign.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of window signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: A window sign must be painted directly upon or
permanently fastened to the window surface itself and shall not be composed of
any neon, or other bare-bulb illumination.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information of a window sign
shall be shall be limited to the name, address, telephone number, and business
hours. Slogans are not permitted.
         (f)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a window sign is 25% of the
total frontage window area.
         (g)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all window
signage pertaining to a business, except for multi-tenant business, which must
comply with the approved uniform sign plan.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 3338, passed 2-7-22)
§ 151.042 INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT (I1 AND I2).
   The following signs are permitted signs that can be placed on property that
is zoned I1 or I2. A uniform sign plan is required for all planned unit
developments (PUD), and all multi-building or multi-tenant occupied industrial
developments prior to the erection of any permanent sign. All owners, tenants,
subtenant and purchasers of individual units within the development shall
comply with the approved uniform sign plan. For requirements of a uniform sign
plan, see §
151.003. Permitted signs within the I1 and I2 zoning districts are as follows.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. Regulations of a freestanding sign restrict the
location area, and illumination of the signs. For the purpose of this chapter,
a freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported by either a
masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not exceeding a
height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line.
   Each freestanding sign must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of living
plant material in accordance with the landscape ordinance as amended from time
to time. Only one freestanding sign may be located on an industrial property
per public right-of-way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Freestanding signs may be internally illuminated
or illuminated via spot lighting or similar external forms. Internally
illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with only letters and logo
illuminated. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003. Internally lit box signs are prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: All materials of any freestanding sign shall be
compatible and harmonious with the materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (e)   Color: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a freestanding sign is limited to three colors, unless
otherwise regulated by the approved uniform sign plan.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information on a freestanding
sign shall include the name of the business(es) or business center, address,
telephone number, and or business logo.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding sign within the I1
and I2 districts is seven feet. The height of the freestanding sign may be
increased 10% to allow for ornamental features.
         (h)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a freestanding sign within
the I1 and I2 districts is 50 square feet.
         (i)   Text size: The minimum height of the text is 12 inches. Text
height will be measured using the lower case height (or shortest character
height) of the font chosen.
      (2)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign are determined by the linear
frontage of the building on which the sign is erected.
         (a)   Number: For a single tenant industrial business one wall sign
shall be permitted per frontage on public right-of-way or frontage on a main
point of ingress/egress into the commercial development. For a multi-tenant
industrial business one wall sign shall be permitted per store frontage. Those
multi-tenant businesses with frontage on a public right-of-way or with frontage
on a main point of ingress/egress into the industrial development shall be
permitted one wall sign per road frontage. For the purposes of this chapter an
industrial business is defined as having its own secured entrance. Businesses
located within another business, without having a distinct secured entrance,
are not considered a separate business and are not eligible for a wall sign. A
business erecting a flag containing a corporate identification or business
logo, shall include the square footage of the flag, which shall not measure
greater than three feet by five feet, in the total square footage of the
allowable wall sign as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall signs shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. For multi-tenant buildings, all wall signs must
be aligned on one common centerline. Only one wall sign shall be located on a
building per storefront or road frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated lit channel letters, reverse channel lit letters, spot lighting or
similar external forms of illumination. Internally illuminated signs shall have
an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated. All wall sign
illumination must be in compliance with §
151.003.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to a business, except for multi-tenant businesses, which
must comply with the approved uniform sign plan. If a wall sign is mounted on a
raceway, the color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the
building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a wall sign
shall be limited to the business name, logo and/or nature of business. Slogans
are not permitted.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area for a wall sign in an Industrial zoning
district is 50 square feet.
      (3)   Permanent window signs. Regulations of a window sign are determined
by the percentage of the total window frontage.
         (a)   Number: For a single tenant industrial business one window sign
shall be permitted per frontage on public right-of-way or frontage on a main
point of ingress/egress into the development. Text may not encompass more than
one window. For multi-tenant industrial businesses one window sign shall be
permitted per store frontage. Those multi-tenant industrial businesses with
frontage on a public right-of-way or with frontage on a main point of ingress/
egress into the development shall be allowed one window sign per road frontage.
Text may not encompass more than one window per business. For the purposes of
this chapter an industrial business is defined as having its own secured
entrance. Businesses located within another business, without having a distinct
secured entrance, are not considered a separate business and are not eligible
for a window sign.
         (b)   Location: Permanent window signs are limited to first floor
windows only.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of window signs is not permitted.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all window
signage pertaining to an industrial business, except for multi-tenant business,
which must comply with the approved uniform sign plan.
         (e)   Materials: A window sign must be painted directly upon or
permanently fastened to the window surface itself and shall not be composed of
any neon, or other bare-bulb illumination.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information for a window sign
shall include only the name, address, telephone number, and business hours.
Slogans are not permitted.
         (g)   Area: The maximum allowable area of an industrial window sign is
25% of the total frontage window area.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.043 OFFICE RESEARCH ZONING DISTRICT (OR).
   The following signs are permitted signs that can be placed on property that
is zoned OR. A uniform sign plan is required for all planned unit developments
(PUD), and all multi-building or multi-tenant occupied office research
developments prior to the erection of any permanent sign. All owners, tenants,
subtenant and purchasers of individual units within the development shall
comply with the approved uniform sign plan. For requirements of a uniform sign
plan see §
151.003. Permitted signs within the OR zoning district is as follows:
   (A)   Exempt signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. Regulations of a freestanding sign restrict the
location, area and illumination of the sign. For the purpose of this chapter, a
freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported by either a
masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not exceeding a
height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line. Each freestanding sign
must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of living plant material in accordance
with the landscape ordinance as amended from time to time. Only one
freestanding sign may be located per public right-of-way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: All freestanding signs may be internally
illuminated or illuminated via spot lighting or similar external forms. All
internally illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with only letters
and logo illuminated. All sign illumination must comply with § 151.03.
Internally illuminated box signs are prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: All materials of any freestanding sign shall be
compatible and harmonious with the materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (e)   Color: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a freestanding sign is limited to three colors, unless
otherwise regulated by the approved uniform sign plan.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information on a freestanding
sign shall include only the name of the office research development.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding sign is seven feet.
The height of the freestanding sign may be increased 10% to allow for
ornamental features.
         (h)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a freestanding sign is 100
square feet.
         (i)   Text size: The minimum height of the text is 12 inches. Text
height will be measured using the lower case height (or shortest character
height) of the font chosen for each tenant.
      (2)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign are determined by the linear
frontage of the building on which the sign is erected.
         (a)   Number: One wall sign is permitted per building, regardless of
the number of businesses located in the building, per frontage on public right-
of-way or main point of ingress or egress into the development. A business
erecting a flag containing a corporate identification or business logo, shall
include the square footage of the flag, which shall not measure greater than
three feet by five feet, in the total square footage of the allowable wall sign
as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall signs shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. Only one wall sign shall be located on a
building per building frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated lit channel letters, reverse channel lit letters, spot lighting or
similar external forms of illumination. Internally illuminated signs shall have
an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated. All wall sign
illumination must be in compliance with §
151.003.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to a business, except for multi-tenant business, which must
comply with the approved uniform sign plan. If a wall sign is mounted on a
raceway, the color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the
building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a wall sign
shall be limited to the building name, logo, or a combination of name and logo.
Slogans are not permitted.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a wall sign is seven feet.
         (g)   Area: The area for wall signage may not exceed one square foot
per linear foot of the principal structure's frontage, which includes both text
and logos. The maximum area of a wall sign is 250 square feet with a minimum
area of 20 square feet.
      (3)   Permanent window signs. Regulations of a window sign are determined
by the percentage of the total window frontage.
         (a)   Number: For single tenant office research business one window
sign shall be permitted per frontage on public right-of-way or frontage on a
main point of ingress egress into the development. Text may not encompass more
than one window. For multi-tenant office research businesses one window sign
shall be permitted per store frontage. Those multi-tenant office research
businesses with frontage on a public right-of-way or with frontage on a main
point of ingress/egress into the development shall be allowed one window sign
per frontage. Text may not encompass more than one window per business. For the
purposes of this chapter a business is defined as having its own secured
entrance. Businesses located within another business, without having a distinct
secured entrance, are not considered a separate business and are not eligible
for a window sign
         (b)   Location: Permanent window signs are limited to first floor
windows only.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of window signs is not permitted.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all window
signage pertaining to a business, except for multi-tenant business, which must
comply with the approved uniform sign plan.
         (e)   Materials: A window sign must be painted directly upon or
permanently fastened to the window surface itself and shall not be composed of
any neon, or other bare-bulb illumination.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information for a window sign
shall include only the name, address, telephone number, and business hours.
Slogans are not permitted.
         (g)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a window sign is 25% of the
total frontage window area.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.044 DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT (HI).
   The sign regulations for the Historical district are designed to ensure
compatibility with the historic heritage of the area. The boundaries of this
district are depicted upon the map in Chapter 154, Appendix A. The village
maintains an 1890's theme, which includes the preservation, restoration, and
overall improvement of the historical area. All signs within this zoning
district must comply with this theme. A uniform sign plan is required for all
planned unit developments (PUD), and all multi-building or multi-tenant
occupied commercial developments prior to the erection of any permanent sign.
All owners, tenants, subtenant and purchasers of individual units within the
development shall comply with the approved uniform sign plan. For requirements
of a uniform sign plan, see § 151.004. The following signs are permanent
identification signs that can be placed on property that is zoned HI.
Businesses within the HI district are permitted up to three permanent
identification signs.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign restrict the location, area
and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Number: For a single tenant business one wall sign shall be
permitted per frontage on public right-of-way, main point of ingress/egress
into the commercial development, and/or frontage along the Old Plank Road
Trail. For multi-tenant buildings one wall sign shall be permitted per store
frontage facing a public right-of-way, main point of ingress/egress into the
commercial development and/or frontage along the Old Plank Road Trail. For the
purposes of this chapter a business is defined as having its own secured
entrance. Businesses located within another business, without having a distinct
secured entrance, are not considered a separate business and are not eligible
for a wall sign. A business erecting a flag containing a corporate
identification or business logo, shall include the square footage of the flag,
which shall not measure greater than three feet by five feet, in the total
square footage of the allowable wall sign as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall signs shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. For multi-tenant buildings, all wall signs must
be aligned on one common centerline. Only one wall sign shall be located on a
building per storefront or road frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signs may be illuminated via spot lighting or
similar external forms. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003.
         (d)   Materials: Sandblasted wood is encouraged for all wall signs.
Alternative materials are acceptable, however must be compatible and harmonious
with the colors and materials of the building identified by the sign.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a wall sign
shall be limited to the business name, logo, or a combination of name and logo.
Slogans are not permitted.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of a wall sign is l5 square feet.
      (2)   Pole-mounted shingle signs. Regulations of a pole-mounted shingle
sign restrict the location, area and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Location: Pole-mounted shingle signs must be located on private
property.
         (b)   Illumination: Internal illumination of pole-mounted shingle
signs is prohibited.
         (c)   Materials: Sandblasted wood is encouraged for all pole-mounted
shingle signs. Alternative materials are acceptable, however must be compatible
and harmonious with the colors and materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (d)   Items of information: The items of information for a pole-
mounted shingle sign shall be limited to the business name, logo, or a
combination of name and logo. Slogans are not permitted.
         (e)   Height: The maximum height of a pole-mounted shingle sign is
eight feet to the highest point of the sign or post.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of a pole-mounted shingle sign is four
square feet per sign face.
      (3)   Projecting signs. Regulations of a projecting sign restrict the
location, area and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Location: A projecting sign may not extend more than five feet
from the face of the building. Projecting signs on "zero lot line" buildings
may encroach on the public right-of-way provided the sign does not violate the
five-foot maximum allowable projection. A clearance of eight feet is required
between the lowest point of the sign and the sidewalk surface. Projecting signs
must be securely fastened to the wall from which they project. Chain or cable
supports from a roof-mounted truss are prohibited.
         (b)   Number: For a single tenant building one projecting sign is
permitted per frontage on a public right-of-way, main point of ingress/egress
into the commercial development and/or frontage along the Old Plank Road Trail.
For multi-tenant buildings one projecting sign shall be permitted per store
frontage facing a public right-of-way, main point of ingress/egress into the
commercial development and/or frontage along the Old Plank Road Trail. For the
purposes of this chapter a business is defined as having its own secured
entrance. Businesses located within another business, without having a distinct
secured entrance, are not considered a separate business and are not eligible
for a projecting sign.
         (c)   Illumination: Internal illumination of projecting signs is
prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: Sandblasted wood is encouraged for all projecting
signs. Alternative materials are acceptable, however must be compatible and
harmonious with the colors and materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (e)   Items of information: Items of information for projecting signs
shall include only the name of the business, logo, or a combination of name and
logo. Slogans are not permitted.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of a projecting sign is 15 square feet.
      (4)   Soffit signs. Regulations of a soffit sign restrict the location,
area and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Location: Soffit signs are to be placed perpendicular to the
public right-of-way or main point of ingress/egress fronting the building on
which the soffit sign is to be located. The soffit sign shall be suspended from
a roof overhang, covered walkway, or covered porch. No part of the suspended
soffit sign shall extend beyond the edge of the overhang. A minimum clearance
of eight feet shall be maintained between the bottom of the sign and the
nearest grade or sidewalk. A soffit sign shall be located adjacent to the
business it identifies.
         (b)   Number: One soffit sign is permitted per store frontage; and
shall be adjacent to the business it identifies.
         (c)   Illumination: Internal illumination of soffit signs is
prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: Sandblasted wood is encouraged for all soffit signs.
Alternative materials are acceptable, however must be compatible and harmonious
with the colors and materials of the building identified by the sign.
         (e)   Items of information: Items of information on the soffit sign
shall be limited to the name of the individual business or building complex.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of a soffit signs is four square feet per
sign face.
      (5)   Permanent window signs. Regulations of a window sign are determined
by a percentage of the total window frontage.
         (a)   Number: For a single tenant business one window sign shall be
permitted per frontage on public right-of-way or frontage on a main point of
ingress/egress into the development. Text may not encompass more than one
window. For multi-tenant businesses one window sign shall be permitted per
store frontage. Those multi-tenant businesses with frontage on a public right-
of-way or with frontage on a main point of ingress/egress into the development
shall be allowed one window sign per road frontage. Text may not encompass more
than one window per business. For the purposes of this section a business is
defined as having its own secured entrance. Businesses located within another
business, without having a distinct secured entrance, are not considered a
separate business and are not eligible for a window sign
         (b)   Location: Permanent window signs are limited to first floor
windows.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of window signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: Window signs must be painted directly upon or
permanently fastened to the window surface itself and shall not be composed of
any neon, or other bare-bulb illumination.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information of a window sign
shall be limited to only the name, address, telephone number, and or business
hours. Slogans are not permitted.
         (f)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a window sign is 25% of the
total frontage window area.
         (g)   Freestanding signs: Freestanding signs are prohibited in the HI
district.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2691, passed 1-24-11)
SIGN STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC SIGN TYPES
§ 151.060 FUEL STATIONS SIGNS.
   The following signs are permitted signs that can be placed on property
occupied by a fuel station. Pump labels and safety warnings, required by law
are exempt from these regulations. Pricing information labels or when applied
to the pumps shall also be exempt from these regulations.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. Regulations of a freestanding sign restrict the
location, area and the illumination of the sign. For the purpose of this
chapter, a freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported by
either a masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not
exceeding a height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line. Each freestanding sign
must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of living plant material in accordance
with the landscape ordinance as amended from time to time. Only one
freestanding sign may be located for a fuel station per public right-of-way
frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Freestanding signs may be internally illuminated
or illuminated via spot lighting or similar external forms. Internally
illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with only letters and logo
illuminated. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003. Internally illuminated box signs are prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: All materials of any freestanding sign shall be
compatible and harmonious with materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (e)   Color: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a freestanding sign is limited to three colors, unless
otherwise regulated by the approved uniform sign plan. Changeable copy text is
limited to one color, unless otherwise regulated by the approved uniform sign
plan.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information for a
freestanding sign shall include only the name, address, telephone number,
business logo, and grade and price information for not more than three gasoline
grades.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding sign is six feet.
The height of the monument sign may be increased 10% to allow for ornamental
features.
         (h)   Area: The maximum area of a freestanding sign is 30 square feet.
The maximum area of the changeable copy portion of a freestanding sign shall be
limited to 25% of the allowable sign area, with the exception that existing
non-conforming freestanding signs which have manually changeable copy, may
convert said portion of the sign to digital changeable copy no larger than the
area of the existing changeable copy.
         (i)   Text size:
            1.   The minimum height of the text, exclusive of the pricing
information, is 12 inches. Text height will be measured using the lower case
height (or shortest character height) of the font chosen for each tenant. The
numeric text for the pricing information is the only portion of the sign that
may contain changeable copy. The height of text for the pricing information is
as follows:
 
Text              Minimum Text Height
Grade             5.5 inches
Dollars and cents 8.5 inches
Tenth cents       5.5 inches
 
            2.   Changeable copy shall not be changed more than once per hour.
      (2)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign are determined by the linear
frontage of the building on which the sign is erected.
         (a)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall signs shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. Only one wall sign shall be located on a
building, fueling canopy or accessory building per road frontage.
         (b)   Number: One wall sign is permitted per business or roadway
frontage provided that the frontage is adjacent to a public right-of-way or
adjacent to a main point of ingress or egress into a development. Signage on a
canopy or awning will be considered a wall sign. For the purposes of this
chapter a business is defined as having its own secured entrance. Businesses
located within another business, without having a distinct secured entrance,
are not considered a separate business and are not eligible for a wall sign.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated lit channel letters, spot lighting or similar external forms of
illumination. No canopy or awning shall be backlit. Internally illuminated
signs shall have an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated.
All sign illumination must be in compliance with §
151.003.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to each business. If a sign is mounted on a raceway, the
color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information on a wall sign
shall be limited to the business name, logo, or a combination of name and logo.
Slogans are prohibited.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a wall sign cannot exceed seven
feet.
         (g)   Area: The maximum area for wall signage is not to exceed one
square foot for every linear foot of the principal structure's frontage
(exclusive of the frontage of the fueling canopy or any ancillary structure
such as a car wash). The maximum area of a wall sign is 200 square feet and the
minimum is 20 square feet, both of which include, text and logos. For the
purpose of this chapter, the total allowable square footage will include the
sign areas on accessory buildings (i.e., car wash, fueling station) and the
fueling canopy, which shall include the background, logo and or text, unless
the color of the canopy is nondescript and non-indicative of the corporate
logo, or is of a neutral color (i.e., gray, brown, tan, black).
      (3)   Permanent window signs. Regulations of a window sign are determined
by a percentage of the total window frontage.
         (a)   Number: One window sign is permitted per roadway frontage
provided that the frontage is adjacent to a public right-of-way or adjacent to
a main point of ingress/egress into the development. Text may not encompass
more than one window.
         (b)   Illumination: Illumination of window signs is prohibited.
         (c)   Materials: A window sign must be painted directly upon or
permanently fastened to the window surface itself and shall not be composed of
any neon, or other bare-bulb illumination.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all window
signage.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a window sign
shall include only the name, address, telephone number, or business hours.
Slogans are prohibited.
         (f)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a window sign is 25% of the
total frontage window area.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 3338, passed 2-7-22)
§ 151.061 AUTOMOTIVE DEALER SIGNS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, automotive dealers include new car, used
car, motorcycle, and motor homes dealerships. Permitted signs for automotive
dealers are as follows:
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. Regulations of a freestanding sign are
determined by the classification of the road on which the freestanding sign is
located as defined in Exhibit A, as amended from time to time. For the purpose
of this chapter, a freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported
by either a masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not
exceeding a height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line. Each freestanding sign
must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of living plant material in accordance
with the landscape ordinance as amended from time to time. Only one
freestanding sign may be located per public right-of-way frontage.
         (c)   Color: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a freestanding sign is limited to three colors.
         (d)   Illumination: Freestanding signs may be internally illuminated
or illuminated via spot lighting or similar external forms. Internally
illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with only letters and logo
illuminated. Internally illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with
only letters and logo illuminated. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003. Internally illuminated box signs are prohibited.
         (e)   Materials: All materials and colors of any freestanding sign
shall be compatible and harmonious with the color and materials of the building
identified by the sign.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information on a freestanding
sign shall include the name of the business(es) or business center, address,
telephone number, and or business logo.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of the sign for an automotive dealer
is determined by the following table (Table A). The height of the freestanding
sign may be increased 10% to allow for ornamental features.
Table A - Maximum Sign Height for Automotive Dealer Freestanding Signs
 
Road Classification                 Maximum Sign Height
Regional Arterial                   7 feet   
Community Arterial                  6 feet   
Major Collector                     5 feet
Neighborhood Collector/Local Street 4 feet
 
         (h)   Area: The maximum area for a freestanding sign for an automotive
dealer is determined by the total acreage of the automotive dealer. The area of
the sign is identified in Table B.
Table B - Maximum Sign Area for Automotive Dealers Freestanding Sign
 
Site Acreage Maximum Sign Area
0 - 1.5      15 square feet
1.5-2.5      20 square feet
3.5 - 4.99   30 square feet
5.0 - 9.99   40 square feet
10 - 19.99   50 square feet
20+          75 square feet
 
         (h)   Text size: The minimum height of the text is determined by the
classification of the road on which the sign is located. Text height will be
measured using the lower case height (or shortest character height) of the font
chosen. The minimum height of text for the sign is defined in Table C.
Table C - Minimum Text Height for Automotive Dealers Freestanding Signs
 
Road Classification    Minimum Text Height
Regional Arterial      12 inches
Community Arterial     10 inches
Major Collector        8 inches
Neighborhood Collector 7 inches
 
      (2)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign restrict the location, area
and the illumination of the sign.
         (a)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall sign shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. All wall signs must be aligned on one common
centerline. Only one wall sign shall be located on a building per road
frontage.
         (b)   Number: A maximum of three wall signs are permitted per
dealership. For the purpose of this chapter, an automotive dealer may erect a
flag containing corporate identification or business logo, which cannot measure
greater than three feet by five feet. Any flag containing corporate
identification or business logo will be included in the total square footage of
the allowable wall sign.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated lit channel letters, reverse channel lit letters, spot lighting or
similar external forms of illumination. Internally illuminated signs shall have
an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated. All wall sign
illumination must be in compliance with §
151.003.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to each business. If a wall sign is mounted on a raceway,
the color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information on a freestanding
sign shall include the name of the business(es) or business center, address,
telephone number, and or business logo.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of any individual wall sign is 50 square
feet.
      (3)   Permanent window signs. Regulations of a window sign are determined
by a percentage of the total window frontage.
         (a)   Number: One window sign shall be permitted per frontage on
public right-of-way and or frontage on a main point of ingress egress into the
development. Text may not encompass more than one window.
         (b)   Illumination: Internal illumination of window signs is
prohibited.
         (c)   Materials: A window sign must be painted directly upon or
permanently fastened to the window surface itself and shall not be composed of
any neon, or other bare-bulb illumination.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all window
signage pertaining to a business.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information of a window sign
shall be limited to the business name, address, telephone number, and or
business hours.
         (f)   Area: The maximum allowable area of a window sign is 25% of the
total frontage window area.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.062 THEATER SIGNS.
   The following signs are permitted and can be placed on property occupied by
a theater.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding sign. Regulations of a freestanding sign are
determined by the classification of the road on which the freestanding sign is
located as defined in Exhibit A, as amended from time to time, as well as the
square footage of the associated building. For the purpose of this chapter, a
freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported by either a
masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not exceeding a
height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line. Each freestanding sign
must be surrounded with a landscaped bed of living plant material in accordance
with the landscape ordinance as amended from time to time. Only one
freestanding sign may be located per public right-of-way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Freestanding signs may be internally illuminated
or illuminated via spot lighting or similar external forms. Internally
illuminated signs shall have an opaque background with
only letters and logo illuminated. All sign illumination must comply with §
151.003. Internally illuminated box signs are prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: All materials of any freestanding sign shall be
compatible and harmonious with the materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (e)   Color: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a freestanding sign is limited to three colors.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information for a
freestanding sign shall include only the name, address, telephone number, and
or business logo.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding sign for a theater
is determined by the classification of the road on which the development is
located. The height of the freestanding sign may be increased 10% to allow for
ornamental features. The height of the sign for a theater is defined in the
following table (Table A).
Table A — Maximum Height of Theater Signs
 
Road Classification    Sign Height
Regional Arterial      7 feet
Community Arterial     6 feet
Major Collector        5 feet
Neighborhood Collector 4 feet
 
         (h)   Area: The maximum area for a freestanding sign of a theater is
defined in Table B.
Table B - Maximum Area For Theater Signs
 
Total Building Size Area of Sign Face
0 to 9,999          15 square feet
10,000 to 24,999    20 square feet
25,000 to 49,999    30 square feet
50,000 to 99,999    40 square feet
100,000 to 174,999  50 square feet
175,000 and up      75 square feet
 
         (i)   Text size: The minimum height of the text is determined by the
classification of the road on which the sign is located. Text height will be
measured using the lower case height (or shortest character height) of the font
chosen. Table C defines the minimum text height for theater signs.
Table C - Minimum Text Height for Theater Signs
 
Road Classification    Minimum Text Height
Regional Arterial      12 inches
Community Arterial     10 inches
Major Collector        8 inches
Neighborhood Collector 7 inches
 
      (2)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign are determined by the linear
frontage of the building on which the sign is erected.
         (a)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall signs shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed. Only one wall sign shall be permitted to be
located per building frontage.
         (b)   Number: One wall sign is permitted per roadway frontage provided
that the frontage is adjacent to a public right-of-way or adjacent to a main
point of ingress or egress into a development. For the purpose of this chapter,
a theater may erect a flag containing corporate identification or business
logo, which cannot measure greater than three feet by five feet. Any flag
containing corporate identification will be included in the total square
footage of the allowable wall sign.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated lit channel letters, reverse channel lit letters, spot lighting or
similar external forms of illumination. Internally illuminated signs shall have
an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated. All wall sign
illumination must comply with §
151.003.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to each business. If a wall sign is mounted on a raceway,
the color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a wall sign
shall be limited to the business name, logo, or a combination of name and logo.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a wall sign is seven feet.
         (g)   Area: The area for wall signage may not to exceed one square
foot for every linear foot of the principal structure's frontage which includes
both text and logos. The maximum area of a wall sign is 200 square feet, the
minimum area is 20 square feet.
      (3)   Accessory signs to theaters. Permanent accessory signs to theaters
are defined as theater posters that display current forthcoming movies or
performances and show times.
         (a)   Location: Accessory signs to theaters shall be affixed flat to
the wall along the front of the building.
         (b)   Number: One accessory sign is permitted for each stage or movie
screen.
         (c)   Illumination: Accessory signs to theaters may be illuminated via
spot lighting or similar external forms. All sign illumination must comply with
§
151.003.
         (d)   Materials: An accessory sign to theaters must be enclosed in a
locked and vandal proof case, which does not project more than three inches
from the wall on which it is displayed.
         (e)   Items of information: Items of information for an accessory sign
to theaters shall be limited to display posters for current or forthcoming
movies or performances and show times. The show times may be changeable copy.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of an accessory sign to theaters is 15
square feet.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.063 CHURCH, SCHOOL, PARK DISTRICT, AND OTHER PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC
INSTITUTIONS.
   The following signs are permitted and can be placed on property occupied by
a church, school, park district and other public/quasi-public institutions.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted permanent identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding sign. Regulations of a freestanding sign restrict the
location, area and the illumination of the sign. For the purpose of this
chapter, a freestanding sign shall include all signs that are supported by
either a masonry base or two six-by-six or four-by-four wood supports not
exceeding a height of two feet.
         (a)   Number: One freestanding sign is permitted per public right-of-
way frontage.
         (b)   Location: No freestanding sign shall project into, over, or
otherwise encroach upon a public right-of-way. All freestanding signs must
maintain a setback of 25 feet from the property line. Each freestanding sign
must be surrounded with a landscape bed of living plant material in accordance
with the landscape ordinance as amended from time to time. Only one
freestanding sign may be located on a road frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: All signs must be externally illuminated. All sign
illumination must comply with §
151.003.
         (d)   Materials: All materials of any freestanding sign shall be
compatible and harmonious with the materials of the building identified by
sign.
         (e)   Color: All colors of any freestanding sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign. Text on a
freestanding sign is limited to three colors.
         (f)   Items of information: The items of information on a freestanding
sign shall include only the name, address, telephone, number, hours of business
or service and a logo for the development.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding sign is six feet in
height to the highest part of the sign or post. The height of the freestanding
sign may be increased 10% to allow for ornamental features.
         (h)   Area: The maximum area of a freestanding sign is 24 square feet
per sign face.
      (2)   Wall signs. Regulations of a wall sign area is determined by the
linear frontage of the building on which the sign is erected.
         (a)   Location: No wall sign shall project into, over or otherwise
encroach upon a public right-of-way. No wall sign shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends, top or bottom of the
wall to which it is affixed. No sign shall project more than one foot from the
wall on which it is displayed.
         (b)   Number: One wall sign is permitted per building.
         (c)   Illumination: Wall signage shall consist of internally
illuminated channel letters, reverse channel lit letters, spot lighting or
similar external forms of illumination. Internally illuminated signs shall have
an opaque background with only letters and logo illuminated. All wall sign
illumination must be in compliance with §
151.003.
         (d)   Color: No more than three colors shall be used for all wall
signage pertaining to each institution. If a wall sign is mounted on a raceway,
the color of the raceway shall match the color of the exterior of the building.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information for a wall sign
shall be limited to the name of the institution, logo, or a combination of name
and logo.
         (f)   Area: The area for wall signage is to not exceed 40 square feet.
         (g)   Height: The maximum height of a wall sign cannot exceed seven
feet.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.064 DIRECTORY/DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   The following are signs that can be placed on property that is zoned B1 ,
B2, B3, B4, I1, I2, and OR districts.
   (A)   Exempt signs.
   (B)   Permitted directional signs.
      (1)   Directional signs. Regulations of a directional signs restrict the
area and the illumination of the signs. Upon submittal of a sign permit for
directional signs, a site plan indicating the location of the proposed
directional signs must be submitted and approved by the code official.
         (a)   Location: Directional signs shall be located at access points or
interior to the property or development, such as the parking area.
         (b)   Illumination: Internal illumination of directional signs is not
permitted.
         (c)   Materials: All materials of any directional signs shall be
compatible and harmonious with the materials of the building identified by the
sign.
         (d)   Color: All colors of any directional sign shall be compatible
and harmonious with the color of the building identified by the sign.
Furthermore, text on a directional sign is limited to three colors, unless
otherwise regulated by the approved uniform sign plan.
         (e)   Items of information: The items of information on a directional
sign can only display "exit," "enter," "drive-up/thru," along with any symbol
or text used for directing vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a directional signs is four feet.
         (g)   Sign area: The maximum area for the directional signs is five
square feet.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.065 DRIVE-UP (DRIVE-THROUGH) WINDOW FACILITY SIGNS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Dimensions. No drive-up (drive-through) sign exceed seven feet in
overall height.
      (2)   Message. Drive-up (drive-through) signs may only feature products
sold on the premises.
      (3)   Advertising. No additional advertising or attachments shall be
permitted on the digital order screen, drive-up (drive-through) menu boards and
pre-sale menu boards, speaker bollard, canopies, clearance bar or exterior of
the structure.
      (4)   Location.
         (a)   All drive-up (drive-through) signage may only be located along
approved and operating drive-through lanes.
         (b)   Speaker bollards, menu boards, pre-sale menu boards and digital
order screens shall be located 15 feet minimum from any residential property
line.
         (c)   Drive-up (drive-through) menu boards, pre-sell menu boards and
digital order screens shall not be oriented towards the public right-of-way,
unless landscape of other approved screening is
provided.
      (5)   Illumination. Signs may be internally or externally lit but the
light shall be contained to the drive-through lane only, and in accordance with
§
151.003(M).
      (6)   Landscaping. All freestanding signs shall be located within a
landscaped area, separated from, and protected from vehicular circulation or
parking areas.
      (7)   Changeable copy. Changeable copy shall not be changed more than
once per hour and shall only contain static displays of information, except
that the order confirmation portion of any drive-up (drive-through) order
screen, digital menu board, or pre-sale menu board shall have no time
limitation for the frequency of change of information.
   (B)   Drive-up (drive-through) menu boards.
      (1)   Number. One drive-up (drive-through) menu board is allowed per
drive-through lane.
      (2)   Dimensions. Drive-up (drive-through) menu boards shall not exceed
20 square feet in size.
      (3)   Digital order screens. Drive-through menu boards may include a
digital order screen no more than two square feet in size that complies with
the regulations outlined in §
151.003(M).
   (C)   Drive-up (drive-through) pre-sale menu boards.
      (1)   Number. One drive-up (drive-through) pre-sell menu board is allowed
per drive-through lane.
      (2)   Dimensions. Drive-up (drive-through) pre-sell menu boards shall not
exceed ten square feet in size.
      (3)   Location. Drive-up (drive-through) pre-sale menu boards should be
located in close proximity to the drive-up (drive-through) menu board.
(Ord. 3338, passed 2-7-22)
TEMPORARY SIGNS PERMITTED BY ZONING DISTRICT
§ 151.075 SPECIAL EVENT SIGNS.
   The following signs are special event signs that can be placed on property
within the B1, B2, B3, B4, I1, and I2 zoning districts. This section does not
include temporary signs as outlined in §
151.076.
   (A)   Special event signs permits.
      (1)   Special event signs. A permit must be obtained for all special
event signs except as noted elsewhere in this section. Permits shall be limited
in duration to 15 days, except as noted elsewhere in this section. A maximum of
one special event sign shall be allowed per permit. All special event signs
must be removed by the permit holder within 24 hours after the expiration of
the permit. No more than six special event sign permits shall be issued per
applicant in any calendar year. The permit fee is $15 and must be paid with
each new application or renewal thereof.
      (2)   Each application for a special event sign must be submitted to the
code official, who will review the application for compliance with the village
Code. The Mayor shall grant final approval or disapproval.
      (3)    Each special event sign shall be issued a special event sign
permit, which is required to be displayed in the window of the associated
business for the duration of the permit. Once the permit has expired, both the
sign permit and the special event sign must be removed.
   (B)   Exempted signs.
   (C)   Permitted special event signs.
      (1)   Portable signs.
         (a)   Location: All portable signs must comply with the setback of the
freestanding sign and the wall sign setbacks as outlined for the zoning
district in which the sign will be located. No portable sign shall be located
on public right-of-way.
         (b)   Number: One portable sign will be allowed per permit.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of portable signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Height: The maximum permitted height of a portable sign is four
feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (e)   Area: The maximum permitted area of a portable sign is 16 square
feet per sign face.
      (2)   Banners.
         (a)   Location: All banners must be securely affixed to the wall of
the associated building.
         (b)   Number: One banner will be allowed per permit.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of banners is prohibited.
         (d)    Height: The maximum permitted height of a banner is four feet
to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (e)   Area: The maximum permitted area of a banner is 24 square feet
per sign face.
      (3)   Inflatable signs.
         (a)   Location: Inflatable sign permits shall be issued to anchor
tenants and auto dealerships only.
         (b)   Number: One inflatable sign, as defined by §
151.005, shall be allowed per permit.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of inflatable signs is prohibited.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.076 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS (ER, HR, R1, R2, R3 AND R4).
   The following signs are temporary signs that can be placed on property
within the ER, HR, R1, R2, R3 and R4 zoning districts. All temporary signs must
comply with all regulations set forth in §
151.075.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted temporary signs.
      (1)   Freestanding real estate sign. The following sign regulations shall
apply to real estate signs advertising property for rent, lease or trade
located on the property. A permit is not required for real estate signs within
a residential district.
         (a)   Location: Real estate signs shall be located on private property
no
closer than five feet from any property line or public right-of-way.
         (b)   Number: One real estate sign shall be permitted per property.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of real estate signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Height: The maximum height of a real estate sign is four and
one-half feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (e)   Area: The maximum area of a real estate sign is four square feet
per sign face.
      (2)   Development signs. 
         (a)   Location: Development signs shall be located on private property
no closer than five feet from any property line or public right-of-way and must
be located in a way as to not interfere with the line of site of vehicles or
pedestrians traffic. Should an applicant request to locate a development off-
site, an application can be made which special consideration will be given and
if deemed appropriate approved by the code official.
         (b)   Number: One development sign per public right-of-way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of development signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Items of information: The items of information on a development
sign may include advertising lots within the development on which the sign is
located, along with the name, address, telephone number, and logo of the
development.
         (e)   Height: The maximum permitted height allowed for a development
sign is eight feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (f)   Area: The maximum permitted area of a development sign is 50
square feet.
         (g)   Time frame: A development sign permit is only valid for two
years from the time the sign is erected.
      (3)   Garage sale signs. The following sign regulations shall apply to
garage sale signage. Only those signs issued by the village may be displayed.
         (a)   Number: Upon issuance of the sale permit the village will
furnish each applicant with three garage sale signs.
         (b)   Location: One sale sign, issued by the village, shall be
displayed at the front lot line on the premises on which the sale is conducted.
Garage sale signs are prohibited to be located on village property at the
intersections of U.S. Route 45 (LaGrange Road) and Route 30 (Lincoln Highway),
U.S. Route 45 and White Street, or White Street and Nebraska Street. No signs
shall be placed in the village flowerbeds. No other signs may be displayed
within the corporate limits of the village.
         (c)   Time frame: Garage sale signs shall not be displayed more than
one day prior to the commencement of the sale and must be removed no later than
one day following the conclusion of the permitted sale.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.077 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND OFFICE RESEARCH DISTRICTS (B1, B2, B3, B4,
I1, I2 AND OR).
   The following signs are temporary signs that can be placed on property
within the B1, B2, B3, B4, I1, I2 and OR zoning districts. All temporary signs
must comply with all regulations set forth in §
151.075.
   (A)   Exempt signs.
   (B)   Permitted temporary signs.
      (1)   Contractor Sign. 
         (a)   Location: Contractor signs shall be located on private property
no closer than 25 feet from any property line or public right-of-way and must
be located in a way as to not interfere with the line of site of vehicles or
pedestrians traffic.
         (b)   Number: One contractor sign shall be permitted per public right-
of-way frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of contractor signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Items of information: The items of information on the contractor
sign may only include information identifying the architects, engineers,
contractors, and other individuals or firms involved with the construction, but
not including the advertisement of any product announcing the character of the
building enterprise, or the purpose for which the building is intended.
         (e)   Height: The maximum permitted height allowed for a contractor
sign is eight feet to the highest part of the sign or post for property located
in the I1, I2 and OR districts and a maximum height of six feet to the highest
part of the sign for property located within the B1, B2, B3 and B4 districts.
         (f)   Area: The maximum permitted area of a contractor sign is 32
square feet.
         (g)   Time frame: A contractor/construction sign permit is only valid
for a period not longer than one week following the use and occupancy of the
structure.
      (2)   Development signs. 
         (a)   Location: Development signs shall be located on private property
no closer than five feet from any property line or public right-of-way and must
be located in a way as to not interfere with the line of site of vehicles or
pedestrians traffic. Should an applicant request to locate a development off
site, an application can be made which special consideration will be given and
if deemed appropriate approved by the code official.
         (b)   Number: One development sign shall be per public right-of-way
frontage.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of development signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Items of information: The items of information on a development
sign may include advertising lots within the development on which the sign is
located, along with the name, address, telephone number, and logo of the
development.
         (e)   Height: The maximum permitted height allowed for a development
sign is eight feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (f)   Area: The maximum permitted area of a development sign is 50
square feet.
         (g)   Time frame: A development sign permit is only valid for two
years from the time the sign is erected.
      (3)   Temporary window signs. A permit is not required for temporary
window signs within the B1, B2, B3, B4, I1 , I2 and OR zoning districts.
         (a)   Location: Temporary window signs shall be located on windows,
which are adjacent from public right-of-way or adjacent to a main point of
ingress/egress into a development.
         (b)   Illumination: Illumination of temporary windows signs is
prohibited.
         (c)   Area: The combined area of temporary window signs and permanent
window signs shall not exceed 75% of the total frontage window area.
      (4)   Window real estate signs. The following sign regulations shall
apply to real estate signs advertising property for rent, lease or trade
located on the window of the associated building. A permit is not required for
window real estate signs within the B1, B2, B3, B4, I1, I2 and OR zoning
districts.
         (a)   Location: Real estate signs may be displayed in the store
window.
         (b)   Area: The maximum area of a real estate sign is six square feet.
         (c)   Number: One real estate sign is permitted per business.
         (d)   Illumination: Illumination of window real estates signs is
prohibited.
      (5)   Freestanding real estate signs. The following sign regulations
shall apply to real estate signs advertising property for rent, lease or trade
located on the property.
         (a)   Location: Freestanding real estate signs shall be located on
private property no closer than 25 feet from any property line or public right-
of-way.
         (b)   Number: One freestanding real estate sign shall be permitted per
property.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of freestanding real estate signs is
prohibited.
         (d)   Materials: All freestanding real estate signs shall be mounted
on a wooden or metal post.
         (e)   Height: The maximum height of a freestanding real estate sign is
six feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (f)   Area: The maximum area of a freestanding real estate sign is 12
square feet per sign face.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.078 DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT (HI).
   The following signs are temporary signs that can be placed on property
within the HI district. All temporary signs must comply with all regulations
set forth in §
151.075, with respect to timeline, permit process and fees. Temporary signs are
as follows:
   (A)   Exempt signs.
   (B)   Permitted temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary window signs. 
         (a)   A permit is not required for temporary window signs within the
Historic district.
         (b)   Area: Not to exceed 25% of the total frontage window area.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of temporary window signs is not
permitted.
      (2)   Real estate signs.
         (a)   A permit is not required for a real estate sign within the
Historic district.
         (b)   Location: Real estate signs must be located in the store window
only.
         (c)   Number: One real estate sign shall be permitted per property.
         (d)   Illumination of real estate signs is prohibited.
         (e)   Area: The maximum area of a real estate sign is six square feet
per sign face.
      (3)   A-frame signs.
         (a)   A permit is not required for A-frame signs within the Historic
District.
         (b)   Location: A-frame signs are permitted to be placed upon private
property and public sidewalks within the Historic District provided a minimum
five feet of unobstructed walkway is maintained per the Illinois American
Disability Act. When located upon public sidewalks A-frame signs shall not be
placed more than six feet from the primary entrance of the business nor shall
they be erected or maintained in a manner that prevents free ingress or egress
from any door, window or fire escape.
A-frame signs shall maintain a minimum six-foot setback from the curb and shall
not obstruct line of sight from an adjacent roadway.
         (c)   Number: For a single tenant building one A-frame sign shall be
permitted per frontage on a public right-of-way, main point of ingress/egress
into the commercial development and / or frontage along the Old Plank Road
Trail. For multi-tenant buildings one A-frame sign shall be permitted per
business with first floor store frontage on a public right-of-way, main point
of ingress/egress into the commercial development and/or along the Old Plank
Road Trail. For the purpose of this chapter a shared first floor entrance shall
not constitute store frontage.
         (d)   Height: The maximum height of an A-frame sign is 50 inches
including the sign base.
         (e)   Area: The maximum area of an A-frame sign is six square feet per
sign face.
         (f)   Illumination: Illumination of A-frame signs is prohibited.
         (g)   Duration: A-frame signs shall only be displayed during operating
hours of the business. All A-frame signs must be removed and stored indoors
when the business is closed.
         (h)   Materials: The use of wood is encouraged for all A-frame signs.
Alternative materials including decorative steel, iron and aluminum are
acceptable, however must be compatible and harmonious with the colors and
materials of the building identified by the sign. Plastic signs are prohibited.
Changeable copy areas shall be limited to chalkboards only. Dry erase boards
and individual removable lettering is prohibited.
         (i)   Prohibited design elements: Animation, movement and
miscellaneous attachments including but not limited to flags, ribbons,
balloons, streamers, pennants, etc. are prohibited from use on A-frame signs.
Landscaping at the base of the sign is encouraged and is not considered a
prohibited design element. Permanent logos shall be limited to that of the
subject business only.
         (j)   Maintenance: A-frame signs must be maintained in a like new
condition and all changeable copy areas wiped clean prior to change in
advertisement.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2691, passed 1-24-11)
§ 151.079 CIVIC ORGANIZATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply to all temporary signs for civic
organizations, which are restricted to double faced A-frame signs (sandwich
boards). Unlike temporary signs, which are restricted to private property,
temporary signs for civic organizations may be located on public right-of-way.
A permit must be obtained prior to placement of any sign.
   (A)   Exempted signs.
   (B)   Permitted temporary signs.
      (1)   A-frame signs.
         (a)   Location: All double faced A-frame signs may be placed on public
property at the following locations:
            (1)   Nebraska and LaGrange (Route 45).
            (2)   Old Frankfort Way and LaGrange (Route 45).
            (3)   East outlot entrance of Frankfort Crossings on Route 30.
            (4)   Pfeiffer Road and Lincoln Highway (Route 30).
            (5)   Laraway Road and Center Road.
            (6)   Colorado Avenue and LaGrange (Route 45).
         (b)   Number: A maximum of four A-frame signs may be placed at
preference of choice of the six locations listed above.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of an A-frame sign is prohibited.
         (d)   Height: The maximum permitted height of an A-frame sign is four
feet to the highest part of the sign or post.
         (e)   Area: The maximum permitted area of an A-frame sign is 16 square
feet per sign face.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.080 POLITICAL SIGNS (ALL DISTRICTS).
   (A)   Permitted temporary signs.
      (1)   Political signs. These regulations shall apply to all types of
political signage, including those advertising a specific candidate for
political office or those advocating a particular preference with regard to a
position on a referendum. Political signs are temporary signs that can be
placed on property within all zoning districts. No permit shall be required for
the placement of a political sign on private property with the property owners’
consent.
         (a)   Location: Political signs shall only be permitted on private
property, in all zoning districts with the property owners’ consent. Political
signs shall be expressly prohibited at the following locations:
            (1)   Within any public right-of-way that is included in the
corporate limits.
            (2)   On any trees.
            (3)   On any principal or accessory building.
            (4)   On any utility poles.
            (5)   On any traffic poles or sign structures.
            (6)   In any manner or at any location determined by the village to
create a visual hazard for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
         (b)   Number: No more than one sign per candidate, political party, or
"issue" per public right of way.
         (c)   Illumination: Illumination of political signs is prohibited.
         (d)   Types: The types of permitted political signs shall include only
yard signs, which can be placed only in a front yard no closer than five feet
to a public sidewalk. Corner lots shall have two front yards for purposes of
this chapter.
         (e)   Materials: All political signs shall be mounted on a wooden or
metal post.
         (f)   Height: The maximum height of a political sign shall not exceed
four feet from the ground to the top of the sign or post.
         (g)   Area: The maximum sign area for a political sign shall be four
square feet.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2691, passed 1-24-11)
SIGNAGE ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.100 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The primary enforcement official for the village shall be the Code
Enforcement Officer or other duly appointed agents.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.101 MAINTENANCE; REMOVAL.
   The standards set forth in the Building Code (2000 International Building
Code) Article 2903.1 and 2903.2; and the village property Maintenance Code
shall be used and are hereby incorporated into this section by reference.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
§ 151.102 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING STATUS OF EXISTING SIGNS.
   All existing signs under the jurisdiction of this chapter rendered non-
conforming by adoption of this chapter shall be permitted to remain in use,
subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Any sign not in conformance with the allowable area (square feet) or
allowable height (lineal feet) provisions of this chapter by an amount less
than 20% in excess of the allowable area or allowable height, shall be
permitted to remain as a legal non-conforming use throughout the useful life of
the sign.
   (B)   Any sign not in conformance with the allowable area or allowable
height provisions of this chapter by an amount more than or equal to 20% in
excess of the allowable area or allowable height, or is non-conforming with any
other provision of this chapter, must be brought into conformance by
modification, replacement, or removal of the non-conforming sign when:
      (1)   More than 50% of the non-conforming sign must be replaced due to
physical deterioration or damage, or
      (2)   The business to which the sign pertains is relocated or has ceased
operation for a period of six months.
      (3)   The business to which the sign pertains is sold, provided, the
compliance is stayed for 24 months from the date of sale.
   (C)   Any sign which comes under the jurisdiction of the village and which
is nonconforming with respect to the requirements contained herein must be
brought into full compliance with all applicable village requirements within 60
months.
(Ord. 2243, passed 11-21-05)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   How to use this chapter
   
152.004   Base flood elevation
Occupation and Use of Flood Fringe Areas
   
152.015   Development to be regulated
   
152.016   Development permit
   
152.017   Preventing increased damages
   
152.018   Compensatory storage
   
152.019   Construction of a building under a LOMR Based on Fill
Occupation and Use of Identified Floodways
   
152.025   Uses and structures permitted in floodways to be regulated
   
152.026   Development permit
   
152.027   Duties of Administrative Department in regard to permits
   
152.028   Preventing increased damages; list of appropriate uses
Engineering and Mitigation Criteria for Appropriate Uses
   
152.035   Appropriate uses shall meet engineering and mitigation criteria
   
152.036   Preservation of flood conveyance so as not to increase flood stages
upstream
   
152.037   Compensatory storage; preservation of floodway storage so as not to
increase downstream flooding
   
152.038   Preservation of floodway velocities so as not to increase stream
erosion or flood heights
   
152.041   On-stream structures built for the purpose of backing up water
   
152.042   Floodproofing of existing habitable residential and commercial
structures
   
152.043   Excavation in the floodway
   
152.044   Channel modification
   
152.045   Seeding and stabilization plan
   
152.046   Reserved
   
152.047   Public flood control projects
   
152.048   General criteria for analysis of flood elevations
   
152.049   Conditional Letter of Map Revision
   
152.050   Professional engineer’s supervision
   
152.051   Buffer strips
   
152.052   When construction may proceed; restrictions
   
152.053   Development activities in delegated communities requiring state
review
   
152.054   Other permits
   
152.055   Permits for dams
   
152.056   Activities that do not require a registered professional engineer’s
review
Occupation and Use of Special Flood Hazard Areas Where Floodways are not
Identified
   
152.065   Development in SFHA or regulated floodplain
   
152.066   Development permit
   
152.067   Elevation of development site to be compared to base flood elevation
   
152.068   Duties of Administrative Department in regard to permits
   
152.069   Preventing increased damages
   
152.070   Development standards for riverine SFHA
   
152.071   Permits for dams
   
152.072   Activities permitted without review
   
152.073   Flood-carrying capacity to be maintained
   
152.074   Compensatory storage
Permitting Requirements Applicable to All Floodplain Areas
   
152.080   Additional permit requirements for all floodplain areas
   
152.081   Public health standards
   
152.082   Carrying capacity and notification
   
152.083   Protecting buildings
   
152.084   Site grading, fill, and buildings adjacent to SFHA
   
152.085   Elevating buildings
   
152.086   Floodproofing of proposed and existing buildings
   
152.087   Non-conforming structures
   
152.088   Construction of new bridges or culvert crossings and roadway
approaches
   
152.089   Reconstruction or modification of existing bridges, culverts, and
approach roads
   
152.090   Detention facilities within and adjacent to the floodplain
   
152.091   Letter of map changes
Other Development Requirements
   
152.100   Flood hazards to affect land management
   
152.101   Development projects to be reviewed for compliance with this chapter
   
152.102   Proposals to include flood elevation data
   
152.103   Natural features to be preserved and utilized whenever possible
   
152.104   Planned unit developments
Variances
   
152.115   Variances in regulatory floodway prohibited; outside floodway
excepted
   
152.116   Conditions for variance
   
152.117   Applicant to be notified of variance’s effect on probation
   
152.118   Variances may be granted for historic preservation
Administration; Enforcement
   
152.125   Duties of the enforcement officials
   
152.126   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.127   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.998   Violations
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
village by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-8, and 11-31-2. The
purpose of this chapter is to maintain the village’s eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic
flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To meet the requirements of ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, § 18(g), An Act in
Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams of the State of
Illinois, approved June 10, 1911, as amended;
      (2)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. 59-78, revised as of October 1, 2000,
as well as final NFIP rules published after that date;
      (3)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (4)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (5)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
      (7)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
      (8)   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources;
      (9)   To preserve the natural hydro logic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats;
      (10)   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in
order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce
soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development;
      (11)   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or creating unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A non-habitable structure which is on the same parcel
of property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   ACOE. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS. A federal agency providing military and
public works services to the United States, including but not limited to the
planning, designing, building, and operating of locks, dams, flood control,
flood protection, waterway dredging, environmental regulation and ecosystem
restoration.
   ACT. An Act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the state, ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
   APPROPRIATE USE. Only uses of the regulatory floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in §
152.028.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year frequency flood
event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location is as defined in
§
152.004.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The highest water surface elevation that can be
expected during the base flood in relation to mean sea level. The BASE FLOOD
ELEVATION (BFE) is also known as the 100-YEAR FREQUENCY FLOOD ELEVATION. The
flood elevation having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building having its floor below ground level on all
sides.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than 180 days.
   CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or man-made drainage way, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of it bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, rip-rapping or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation,
debris, or trash from the channel. CHANNELIZATION. A severe form of channel
modification typically involving relocation of the existing channel ( e.g.,
straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off-site floodwater elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A REGULATORY FLOOD WAY MAP CHANGE. Preconstruction
approval by IDNR-OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this part, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as-built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA). A letter from FEMA stating that
a proposed structure that is not to be elevated by fill (natural grade) would
not be inundated by the base flood if built as proposed.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A letter from
FEMA stating that a parcel of land or proposed structure that will be elevated
by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if fill is placed on the
parcel as proposed or the structure is built as proposed.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter from FEMA which
indicates that they will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate
zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective Flood Hazard
Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map, once the project is built as proposed
and as-built plans are submitted and approved.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection is recommended include: sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants, and pumping stations.
   DAM. All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included. DAMS may include weirs, restrictive culverts or impoundment
structures.
   DELEGATED COMMUNITY. A community delegated state permitting authority in the
floodway.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The Village of Frankfort Design Standards, Revised June
2007 or as amended from time to time, which shall be utilized in conjunction
with other applicable ordinances and guidelines including, but not limited to,
the floodplain ordinance, Water Resource Management Plan and zoning ordinance.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair, addition to or replacement
of a building or structure.
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days.
         (c)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges, or similar projects.
         (d)   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
         (e)   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
         (f)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or
culverts; channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving,
or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of
equipment or materials; deposit of solid or liquid waste.
         (g)   Any other activity of man that might change the direction,
height, or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as re-roofing or re-surfacing of roads when there is no
increase in elevation, or gardening, plowing, cultivation, and similar
agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of
levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A form used by FEMA to certify building elevations,
confirm compliance with the village floodplain management ordinance, determine
proper insurance premium rates, and to support a request for a Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA) or a Letter of Map Revisions based on fill (LOMR-F).
   EROSION. The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS. Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
the ILCS including state, federal or local units of government.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK. A manufactured housing park, as defined
by the village zoning ordinance, for which the construction of facilities to
service the manufactured homes to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
complete before the effective date of the village’s initial floodplain
management regulations.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK. The preparation of
additional sites, as approved by the village and pursuant the then existing
zoning code, by the construction of facilities to service the property upon
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-
79. The independent federal agency that, in addition to carrying out other
activities, administers the NFIP.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map prepared by the FEMA that depicts
generalized areas within the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) within a
community. These maps have since been replaced by Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM) based on a detailed Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations,
adopted and published by FEMA.
   FLOODPLAIN. That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. FLOODPLAINS may also include detached Special Flood Hazard Areas,
ponding areas, etc. The FLOODPLAIN is also known as the SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
AREA (SFHA). The FLOODPLAINS are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
village that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood. The SFHAs of the village, those parts of unincorporated Will and Cook
Counties that lie within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or
those parts of unincorporated Will and Cook Counties that may be annexed into
the village, are generally identified as such on the Countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of Will and Cook Counties, Illinois prepared by FEMA for Will County
on panel numbers 17197C0195G, 17197C0212G, 17197C0213G, 17197C0214G,
17197C0218G, 17197C0310G, 17197C0326G, 17197C0327G, 17197C0330G, 17197C0331G,
and 17197C0335G dated February 15, 2019; and for Cook County on panel numbers
17031 C0781 J and 17031 C0782J dated August 19, 2008, and as amended from time
to time.
   FLOODPROOF. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify that a building has been
designed and constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood
protection elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood plus two feet of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA. Outside of the floodplain limits, the water table or 100-year design
water surface elevation of any adjacent stormwater facility, whichever is
higher, plus two feet of freeboard.
   FLOODPROOF. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures of property which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the FPE.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the channel and floodplain needed to store and
convey the critical duration 100-year frequency flood discharge with no more
than one-tenth foot increase in flood stage due to the loss of flood conveyance
or storage, and no more than a 10% increase in velocities.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown localized
conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice
or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Registrar;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency;
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT COMPENSATORY STORAGE. Compensatory storage either
adjacent to the floodplain fill or not located adjacent to the development but
can be shown by hydrologic and hydraulic analysis to be equivalent to
compensatory storage located adjacent to the development.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS. Engineering analysis which determines
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   HYDROLOGICALLY DISTURBED. An area where the land surface has been cleared,
grubbed, compacted, or otherwise modified that changes runoff, volumes, rates
or direction.
   IDNR-OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources - Office of Water
Resources.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream whose bed intersects the groundwater table for
only a portion of the year on the average or any stream which flows
continuously for at least one month out of the year but not the entire year.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). Official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure or parcel of land would not be inundated by the base flood;
amends the effective FHBM or FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A letter from FEMA that officially revises
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate
zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building lowest floor provided that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
manufactured homes also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative
effects which floodplain development activities might have on the public
health, safety and welfare. Examples of MITIGATION include compensatory
storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
MITIGATION may also include those activities taken to reduce a structure’s
susceptibility to flooding.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program whose
requirements are codified in Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   NATURAL. When used in reference to channels means those channels formed by
the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross-section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is re-
established. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
   NAVD 88. National American Vertical Datum of 1988, which supersedes the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
   NET WATERSHED BENEFIT. A finding that, when compared to the existing
condition, the developed project will do one of the following: substantially
reduce (more than 10%) downstream peak discharges; reduce downstream flood
stages (more than one-tenth of a foot'); or reduce downstream damages to
structures occurring in the pre-development condition. The demonstration of one
of these conditions must be through detailed hydro logic and hydraulic analysis
of watersheds on a regional scale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures and subsequent improvements for which the start
of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK. A manufactured housing park, as defined by
the village zoning ordinance, for which the construction of facilities for
servicing the property on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the village’s initial floodplain
management regulations.
   NGVD. National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
National Geodetic Survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
   NON-RIVERINE. Areas not associated with a stream or river such as isolated
depressional storage areas, ponds and lakes.
   NPDES II. Mandated by Congress under the Clean Water Act, the NPDES
Stormwater Program is a comprehensive two-phased national program for
addressing the non-agricultural sources of stormwater discharges which
adversely affect the quality of our nation’s waters. The program uses the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permitting mechanism to
require the implementation of controls designed to prevent harmful pollutants
from being washed by stormwater runoff into local water bodies.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM). The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
   PERENNIAL STREAMS. Riverine watercourses whose thalweg generally intersects
the groundwater table elevation sand flows throughout the year.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATER. All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the State of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT. A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
   PUBLICLY NAVIGABLE WATERS. All streams and lakes capable of being navigated
by watercraft.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. As defined by the village zoning
ordinance.
   REGIONAL PERMIT. Regional permits are offered for pre-approved projects
which are considered minor projects that are permissible for IDNR-OWR Part 3708
rules for Northeastern Illinois regulatory floodways. A complete listing of the
terms and conditions for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR-
OWR website.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois Land Surveyors Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 330, §§ 1 et
seq.).
   REGISTERED or LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the
State of Illinois, under the Illinois Professional Engineering Act (ILCS Ch.
225, Act 325, §§ 1 et seq.).
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY or DESIGNATED FLOODWAY. Those portions of the floodplain
depicted on maps as floodway and recognized by the IDNR-OWR for regulatory
purposes. The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that portion of the
floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by OWR, which is
needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future 100-year
frequency flood discharge with no more than a one-tenth foot increase in stage
due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a 10% increase
in velocities. The regulatory floodway for Hickory Creek, Hickory Creek
Tributaries 1, 2, 3, and A, Jackson Creek, Jackson Creek Tributary 2, and
Forked Creek, within the village, those parts of unincorporated Will and Cook
Counties that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or
for those parts of unincorporated Will County that may be annexed into the
village are designated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Will and
Cook Counties, Illinois prepared by FEMA-for Will County on panel numbers
17197C0195G, 17197C0212G, 17197C0213G, 17197C0214G, 17197C0218G, 17197C0310G,
17197C0326G, 17197C0327G, 17197C0330G, 17197C0331G, and 17197C0335G dated
February 15, 2019; and for Cook County on panel numbers 17031 C0781 J and 17031
C0782J dated August 19, 2008, and as amended from time to time. To locate the
regulatory floodway boundary on any site, the regulatory floodway boundary
should be scaled off the regulatory flood way map and located on a site plan,
using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation is needed to
determine the exact location of the regulatory floodway boundary, the IDNR-OWR
should be contacted for the interpretation. When two floodway maps exist for a
waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall prevail.
   REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain as depicted on maps recognized by FEMA
as defining the limits of the SFHA.
   REPAIR, REMODELING, or MAINTENANCE. Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY. A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
   RIVERINE SFHA. Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified
channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes,
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   RUNOFF. The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION. The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Any base flood area subject to flooding
from a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified
channel, having flood or flood related erosion hazards, or ponding and shown on
a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, AO, Al-30,
AE, A99, AH, VO, V1-V30, VE, V, M, or E.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
   STATEWIDE PERMITS. Statewide permits are offered for pre-approved projects
that are considered minor projects which are permissible per the IDNR-OWR Part
3700 rules. A complete listing of the statewide permits and permit requirements
can be obtained from the IDNR-OWR website.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A sediment and erosion control
plan plus all the construction activities to prevent stormwater contamination
and comply with the requirements of the Clean Water Act.
   STRUCTURE. The results of a man-made change to the land constructed on or
below the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building, roads, signs, billboards, etc.;
installing a manufactured home on a site; preparing a site for a manufactured
home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during the life of the building equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination. The term includes repetitive loss buildings.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement
of a structure taking place during the life of the building, the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value or increases the floor area by more
than 20% of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure.
      (3)   This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
      (4)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   THALWEG. A line along the lowest point in a channel.
   TRANSITION SECTION. Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section or vice versa.
   USABLE SPACE. Space used for dwelling, storage, utilities, or other
beneficial purposes, including without limitation basements.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such times
as that documentation is provided.
   WATERSHED. All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
stream, lake, stormwater facility, or draining to a point.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.003 HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Village Administrator, with consultation of the Village Engineer
(hereinafter referred to as “Administrative Department”), shall be responsible
for fulfilling all of the duties listed in §
152.125.
   (B)   To fulfill those duties, the Administrative Department first should
use the criteria listed in §
152.004 to determine whether the development site is located within a
floodplain. Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the Administrative Department must determine whether the
development site is within a flood fringe, a regulatory floodway, or within a
SFHA or floodplain on which no floodway has been identified.
      (1)   If the site is within a flood fringe, the Administrative Department
shall require that the minimum requirements of §§
152.015 through
152.018 be met.
      (2)   If the site is within a floodway, the Administrative Department
shall require that the minimum requirements of §§
152.025 through
152.028 be met.
      (3)   If the site is located within a SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the Administrative Department
shall require that the minimum requirements of §§
152.065 through
152.074 be met.
   (C)   In addition, the general requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087 shall be met for all developments meeting the requirements of §§
152.015 through
152.018,
152.025 through
152.056, and
152.065 through
152.074. The Administrative Department shall assure that all subdivision
proposals shall meet the requirements of §§
152.100 through
152.104.
   (D)   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Administrative
Department shall review the requirements of §§
152.115 through
152.118 to make sure they are met. In addition, the Administrative Department
shall complete all notification requirements.
   (E)   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the Administrative Department may take any and all actions as
outlined in §§
152.998 and
152.999.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.004 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is based on the Countywide Flood
Insurance Study for Will and Cook Counties dated February 15, 2019 and August
19, 2008 respectively, prepared by FEMA, and as amended from time to time. If a
base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is not available for
a particular site, then the protection standard shall be according to the best
existing data available in the Illinois State Water Survey’s Floodplain
Information Repository. When a party disagrees with the best available data, he
or she may finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing
data with better data and submit it to IDNR-OWR and FEMA.
   (B)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHA’s of
Hickory Creek, Hickory Creek Tributaries 1, 2, 3, A, Union Drainage Ditch,
Jackson Creek, Jackson Creek Tributary 2, Jackson Branch, and Forked Creek
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Countywide Flood
Insurance Study of Will and Cook Counties prepared by FEMA dated February 15,
2019, and August 19, 2008 respectively. These areas are shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps for Will County on panel numbers 17197C0195G, 17197C0212G,
17197C0213G, 17197C0214G, 17197C0218G, 17197C0310G, 17197C0326G, 17197C0327G,
17197C0330G, 17197C0331G, and 17197C0335G dated February 15, 2019; and for Cook
County on panel numbers 17031 C0781 J and 17031 C0782J dated August 19, 2008,
and such amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to
time.
   (C)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Will County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Countywide Flood Insurance
Study of Will and Cook County, Illinois prepared by FEMA dated February 15,
2019 and August 19, 2008. These areas are shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps for Will County on panel numbers 17197C0195G, 17197C0212G, 17197C0213G,
17197C0214G, 17197C0218G, 17197C0310G, 17197C0326G, 17197C0327G, 17197C0330G,
17197C0331G, and 17197C0335G dated February 15, 2019; and for Cook County on
panel numbers 17031 C0781 J and 1 7031 C0782J dated August 19, 2008, and such
amendments or revisions to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to
time.
   (D)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an “AH Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation ( or depth)
delineated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map for Will County on panel
numbers 17197C0195G, 17197C0212G, 17197C0213G, 17197C0214G, 17197C0218G,
17197C0310G, 17197C0326G, 17197C0327G, 17197C0330G, 17197C0331G, and
17197C0335G dated February 15, 2019; and for Cook County on panel numbers 17031
C0781 and 0782 dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to such
study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   (E)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the Countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map for Will County on panel numbers 17197C0195G, 17197C0212G,
17197C0213G, 17197C0214G, I7197C0218G, 17197C0310G, 17I97C0326G, 17197C0327G,
17197C0330G, 17197C0331G, and 17197C0335G dated February 15, 2019; and for Cook
County on panel numbers 17031C0781J and 1 7031 C0782J dated August 19, 2008,
and such amendments or revisions to such study and maps as may be prepared from
time to time, shall be according to the best existing data available in the
Illinois State Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository.
      (1)   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists,
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall
be determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-RAS, HEC-2, WSP-2, or a
dynamic model such as HIP.
      (2)   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-HMS, HEC-1, TR-20, Pond Pack, or HIP, or by
techniques presented in various publications prepared by the United States
Geological Survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
      (3)   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than one
square mile) which has been identified by the Administrative Department, the
base flood elevation shall be determined by the applicant utilizing a method
approved in this section.
   (F)   In all occasions, regardless of existing flood zone, a detailed site
specific flood study is required for the proposed condition when any fill is
proposed within the floodplain.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS
§ 152.015 DEVELOPMENT TO BE REGULATED.
   (A)   Only limited development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be
permitted if protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood by proper elevation, and compensatory storage and other
provisions of this chapter are met. No use will be permitted which adversely
affects the capacity of drainage facilities or systems. No new structures or
buildings with basements are permitted within the SFHA as determined by
elevation from an FIS or detailed flood study. All buildable residential and
nonresidential lots must be outside the SFHA for new development to minimize
flood risk associated with base flood and higher magnitude floods. Subdivisions
and Planned unit developments are required to obtain a Letter of Map Revision
from FEMA in accordance with §
152.088. Permitted developments located within the flood fringe shall meet the
requirements of this section, along with the requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087.
   (B)   If the BFE at the site of the proposed development is affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream with a larger drainage area, the
proposed development shall be shown to meet the requirements of this chapter
with the receiving stream at both the normal water and BFEs.
   (C)   If the applicant is informed by IDNR-OWR, local governments, or a
private owner that a downstream or upstream restrictive bridge or culvert is
scheduled to be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control
project is scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the
next five years, the proposed development shall be analyzed and shown to meet
the requirements of this chapter for both the existing conditions and the
expected flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control
project is built, removed or modified as applicable.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.016 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the Administrative Department.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Administrative Department.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn
to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by an Illinois licensed engineer, architect or land
surveyor; existing grade elevations in Mean Sea Level, 1988 adj. datum or NAVD
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings.
      (2)   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement), walk-out and look-out elevations and locations, and
lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted plans and the development
will be subject to the requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the Administrative
Department shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation.
      (1)   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation as of the sites first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Administrative Department shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
   (D)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas
shall be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of
grading activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to
be implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
All erosion and sediment control requirements of the Village of Frankfort
Design Standards Section 2 and NPDES II shall also apply.
   (E)   The Administrative Department shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant, copies of all other local, state and federal permits, approvals
or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The Administrative Department shall not issue a permit unless all other local,
state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (F)   Adequate protection is required for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters
with expected velocities during the occurrence of the base flood of 5 fps or
less by covering them with vegetation undergrowth (grass, vines, etc.).
   (G)   Adequate protection is required for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters
with expected velocities during the occurrence of the base flood greater than 5
fps by covering them with stone or rock slope protection or other material
acceptable to the village.
   (H)   A floodplain development permit or approval shall become invalid
unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after
its issuance, or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period
of 180 days after the work commences. Extensions for periods of not more than
180 days each shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause shall be
demonstrated.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.017 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   (A)   No development in the flood fringe shall create a threat to public
health and safety.
   (B)   If fill is being used to elevate the site above the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit sufficient data and
obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the purpose of removing
the site from the floodplain.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.018 COMPENSATORY STORAGE.
   (A)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the volume
of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill below the base flood or
100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a
hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from below the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Detention volume and associated berming
within the SFHA shall be considered as fill if it occupies volume that was
previously occupied by the base flood.
   (B)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
   (C)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made
opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
   (D)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation.
   (E)   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse and shall be located adjacent to the development.
   (F)   The fill material shall be homogeneous and isotropic and compacted to
at least 95% (Standard Proctor).
   (G)   Finished grade shall be 4:1 maximum and 1% minimum. Retaining walls,
excluding control structures, are not permitted below the BFE.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.019 CONSTRUCTION OF A BUILDING UNDER A LOMR BASED ON FILL.
   A person who has obtained a Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill that
removes a site in the floodplain due to the use of fill to elevate the site
above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the village to construct the lowest
floor of a building below the BFE in the floodplain. The Administrative
Department shall not issue such a permit unless the applicant has complied with
all the criteria set forth in this section and maintain the documentation
verifying such compliance.
   (A)   Compensatory storage shall be provided per §
152.018.
   (B)   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e., window
wells, access ways) shall be at or above the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE).
   (C)   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the Administrative Department may waive the ten-foot minimum setback if an
Illinois licensed P.E. certifies that an alternative method to protect the
building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. The
certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and structural design
analysis, which shall be submitted to the Administrative Department for review.
The Administrative Department may require such additional documentation as
necessary to prove that the proposed shorter setback distance will keep the
structure reasonably safe. In no case shall the setback distance be less than
four feet.
   (D)   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of 20 feet from the structure, shall be above the BFE. However, if
site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained, the
Administrative Department may waive the 20-foot minimum setback distance if an
Illinois licensed P.E. certifies that an alternative method to protect the
building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures have been met. A detailed
soils analysis and structural design proving that a shorter setback distance
will keep the structure reasonably safe from flooding, shall be submitted to
the village for review. In no case shall the setback distance be less than four
feet.
   (E)   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets all
requirements of this section and is at least five feet thick under the basement
floor slab. Nothing in this division (E) shall be interpreted to require the
removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of a LOMR-F, if such
fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification and degree
permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according to ASTM
standard D-2487, Classification of Soils for Engineering Purposes.
   (F)   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic; that is, the soil
must be all of one material, and the engineering priorities must be in the same
direction.
   (G)   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed P.E., as warranted by the site conditions.
   (H)   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than five
below the BFE.
   (I)   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one quarter horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply shall be
provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four times the
estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away from the
building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the floor
under the effect of the seepage pressure.
   (J)   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
   (K)   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
   (L)   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set forth
in the preceding divisions of this section, the Administrative Department may
allow the construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant
demonstrates that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and
requirements set forth in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe
from flooding. In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is
reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed
engineering analysis of the proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered
basement study shall be completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an
Illinois licensed P.E.
   (M)   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in no
case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed 18 inches, as measured from the previously existing natural grade. The
rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation, if
necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to drain
the compensatory storage area will not be permitted.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
OCCUPATION AND USE OF IDENTIFIED FLOODWAY
§ 152.025 USES AND STRUCTURES PERMITTED IN FLOODWAYS TO BE REGULATED.
   This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site
modification or building modification within a regulatory floodway. The
regulatory floodway for Hickory Creek, Hickory Creek Tributaries 1, 2, 3, A;
Jackson Creek, Jackson Creek Tributary 2; and Forked Creek shall be as
delineated on the regulatory floodway maps designated by IDNR-OWR according and
referenced in §
152.002. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which meet the
criteria in this subchapter. All floodway modifications shall be the minimum
necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. Any encroachment, fill, new
construction, substantial improvement and other development within the
regulatory floodway is prohibited unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The
development shall also meet the requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty see §
152.999
§ 152.026 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in a floodway without first obtaining
a development permit from the Administrative Department.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Administrative Department. The application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the regulatory floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      (3)   Name of stream or body of water affected;
      (4)   Description of proposed activity;
      (5)   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
      (6)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      (7)   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
      (8)   Signature of applicant or the applicant’s agent;
      (9)   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
      (10)   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
      (11)   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him or her as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
      (12)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
         (a)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         (b)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1988 adjustment) datum or
NAVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, location of any channels and any existing or future access roads,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), regulatory
floodway limit, floodplain limit (as determined by both the scaled limit on the
FIRM and the calculated or FIS profile elevation), specifications and
dimensions of any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of
cross-sections, north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale;
         (c)   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, ten-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
         (d)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance;
all erosion and sediment control requirements of the Village of Frankfort
Design Standards Section 2 and NPDES II shall also apply.
         (e)   A copy of the regulatory floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the regulatory floodway location.
         (f)   A copy of the Flood Insurance Study profile with project limits
identified.
      (13)   Any and all other local, state and federal permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
      (14)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of §
152.028.
      (15)   If the regulatory floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until FEMA and IDNR-OWR have
indicated conditional approval of the regulatory floodway map change. No
structures may be built until a Letter of Map Revision has been approved by
FEMA.
      (16)   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a
registered professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land
surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including) basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087.
      (17)   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         (a)   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         (b)   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations
or methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work;
         (c)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts the
project would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected;
         (d)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in §
152.088(B) would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected;
         (e)   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.027 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT IN REGARDS TO PERMITS.
   The Administrative Department shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other local, state, and federal permits and approvals
that may be required for the type of activity described in §
152.026.
   (A)   The Administrative Department shall not issue the development permit
unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
   (B)   A registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract of
the village shall review and approve applications reviewed under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.028 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES; LIST OF APPROPRIATE USES.
   (A)   The only development in a floodway which will be allowed are
appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the BFE, and which will not
create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity
or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently
impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter. All
buildable residential and nonresidential lots must be outside the SFHA and
floodway for new development to minimize flood risk associated with base flood
and higher-magnitude floods. Subdivisions and planned unit developments are
required to obtain a Letter of Map Revision from FEMA in accordance with §
152.091.
   (B)   Only those appropriate uses listed in 17 Ill. Adm. Code, Chapter I,
IDNR Part 3708 (Floodway Construction in Northeastern Illinois) will be
allowed. Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, buildings, building additions, buildings on stilts,
excavation or channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise
nonappropriate uses in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting
designed to act as a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically
defined below as an appropriate use. The approved appropriate uses are as
follows:
      (1)   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
      (2)   Structures or facilities relating to the functionally water
dependent uses of, or requiring access to, the water or shoreline, such as
existing pumping and treatment facilities, and facilities and improvements
related to recreational boating, commercial shipping and other functionally
water dependent uses (except for additions to habitable structures on the
site);
      (3)   Storm sewer and treated sanitary treatment plant outfalls;
      (4)   Underground and overhead utilities;
      (5)   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems
including any related fencing (at least 50% open when viewed from any one
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open
air pavilions and toilet facilities (four stall maximum) that will not block
flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
      (6)   Sheds, boat houses or other non-habitable accessory structures
without toilet facilities to existing buildings that will not block flood
flows, nor reduce floodway storage. Storage of hazardous material is further
prohibited in these structures;
      (7)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, driveways, sidewalks, railways,
runways and taxiway required for crossing the floodway or for access to other
appropriate uses in the floodway and any modification thereto;
      (8)   Parking lots and any modifications thereto and aircraft parking
aprons built at or below ground elevation provided that:
         (a)   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will
not exceed one foot, or
         (b)   The parking lot is accessory to short-term outdoor recreational
facilities and the owner agrees to restrict access during periods of inundation
and agrees to accept liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during
flooding events;
      (9)   Regulatory floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
non-erosive slope toward a watercourse;
      (10)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of water tight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall or berm
shall be no more than ten feet away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
      (11)   Aircraft parking aprons built at or below ground elevation where
the depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed one
foot;
      (12)   Modifications to existing buildings above the BFE that do not
increase the building’s footprint, and which will not block flood flows. These
modifications include fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios and second story
addition. No enclosed floor areas may be built on stilts. If the building is
improved to 50% or more of the market value before the modification occurred
(i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will be protected from flooding
to the flood protection elevation.
      (13)   The replacement, reconstruction or repair of a damaged building,
provided that the outside dimensions of the building are not increased and,
provided that, if the building is damaged to 50% or more of the building’s
market value before it was damaged, the building will be protected from
flooding to or above the 100-year frequency flood elevation.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
ENGINEERING AND MITIGATION CRITERIA FOR APPROPRIATE USES
§ 152.035 APPROPRIATE USES SHALL MEET ENGINEERING AND MITIGATION CRITERIA.
   Within the regulatory floodway as identified on the regulatory floodway maps
designated by IDNR-OWR, the construction of an appropriate use, will be
considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets the following
engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting
plans, calculations and data by a registered professional engineer and provided
that any structure meets the protection requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.036 PRESERVATION OF FLOOD CONVEYANCE SO AS NOT TO INCREASE FLOOD STAGES
UPSTREAM.
   (A)   For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on-stream
structures or dams, all effective regulatory floodway conveyance lost due to
the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including the 100-
year frequency flood.
   (B)   In calculating effective regulatory floodway conveyance, the following
factors shall be taken into consideration:
      (1)   Regu1atory floodway conveyance.
         K = [1.4863 A RH 2/3] / n
         Where:
            n =   Manning’s roughness factor.
            A =   The effective area of the cross-section.
            RH =   The hydraulic radius (ratio of the wetted area to the wetted
perimeter).
(Note: See Open Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book
Company, New York)
      (2)   The same Manning’s “n” value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a non-vegetative
land cover or vice versa.
      (3)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective regulatory conveyance. The following expansion and contraction ratios
shall be used unless an applicant’s engineer can prove to IDNR-OWR through
engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be
used with the same efficiency:
         (a)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every four feet (4:1 expansion) of the flooded stream’s length.
         (b)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every one foot (1: 1 contraction) of the flooded stream’s
length.
         (c)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot vertical transition for every ten feet (10: 1 vertical
transition) of stream length shall be used.
         (d)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the regulatory floodway
delineation on adjacent properties. Transition sections must be used to
determine the effective conveyance areas on adjacent properties. Cross-sections
shall extend at least 100 feet upstream and downstream of the project limits.
         (e)   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.037 COMPENSATORY STORAGE; PRESERVATION OF FLOODWAY STORAGE SO AS NOT TO
INCREASE DOWNSTREAM FLOODING.
   (A)   Hydraulically equivalent compensatory storage shall be provided for
any regulatory floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume
of fill or structures placed and the impact of any related flood control
projects.
   (B)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least
one and one-half times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
   (C)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head loss
behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
   (D)   The compensatory regulatory floodway storage shall be placed between
the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood elevation.
All regulatory floodway storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
regulatory floodway storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse
and preferably located adjacent to the development.
   (E)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of the
proposed construction, the applicant’s engineer shall demonstrate to IDNR-OWR
through a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that
the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
   (F)   Finally, there shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at existing structure.
   (G)   The fill material shall be homogeneous and isotropic and compacted to
at least 95% (Standard Proctor).
   (H)   Finished grade shall be 4: 1 maximum and 1% minimum. Retaining walls,
excluding control structures, are not permitted below the BFE.
   (I)   Adequate protection is required for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters
with expected velocities during the occurrence of the base flood of 5 fps or
less by covering them with vegetation undergrowth (grass, vines, etc.).
   (J)   Adequate protection is required for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters
with expected velocities during the occurrence of the base flood greater than 5
fps by covering them with stone or rock slope protection or other material
acceptable to the village.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.038 PRESERVATION OF FLOODWAY VELOCITIES SO AS NOT TO INCREASE STREAM
EROSION OR FLOOD HEIGHTS.
   (A)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on stream
structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the average
channel or regulatory floodway velocities or stage for all flood events up to
and including the 100-year frequency event.
   (B)   However in the case of bridges or culverts or on stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.041 ON-STREAM STRUCTURES BUILT FOR THE PURPOSE OF BACKING UP WATER.
   (A)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot when
compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within recorded easements or
the channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements. A permit or letter indicating a permit is not
required must be obtained from IDNR-OWR for any structure built for the purpose
of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flow. All dams and
impoundment structures as defined in §
152.002 shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Ill. Adm. Code, Chapter I,
IDNR Part 3702 (Construction and Maintenance of Dams).
   (B)   If the proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or
floodway to accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
      (1)   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional stormwater detention;
      (2)   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning;
      (3)   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a pre-sedimentation basin;
      (4)   A non-point source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
      (5)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of §§
152.025 through
152.056.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.042 FLOODPROOFING OF EXISTING HABITABLE, RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet from the outside of the building.
   (B)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
(Ord.3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.043 EXCAVATION IN THE FLOODWAY.
   (A)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and culvert
openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing bridge and
culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance for other appropriate
uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
   (B)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an
applicant’s engineer can prove to IDNR-OWR through engineering calculations or
model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
      (1)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section, the
water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every four feet (4:1 expansion) of the flooded stream’s length;
      (2)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section, the
water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every one foot (1: 1 contraction) of the flooded stream’s
length;
      (3)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot vertical transition for every ten feet (10: 1 vertical
transition) of stream length shall be used;
      (4)   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.044 CHANNEL MODIFICATION.
   If the proposed activity involves a channel modification, it shall be
demonstrated that:
   (A)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from the
floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment of a
stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat;
   (B)   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
   (C)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be constructed in
a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural conditions of the
body of water affected, consistent with the following criteria:
      (1)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall match as
closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross-section,
slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously modified,
restoration of more natural physical conditions should be incorporated into
channel modification design, where practical;
      (2)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both the
upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion;
      (3)   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when feasible.
Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one side of
the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization effects
of the vegetation;
      (4)   Clearing of vegetation shall be limited to that which is essential
for construction of the channel;
      (5)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no steeper
than 4:1 horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable. Natural vegetation and
gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank stabilization. Where
high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of alternative stabilization
measures, natural rock or rip-rap are preferred materials. Artificial materials
such as concrete, gabions, or construction rubble should be avoided unless
there are no practicable alternatives;
      (6)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover;
      (7)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom diversity such
as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such features shall be
provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate;
      (8)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of the
modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality;
      (9)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all items
of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to diversion
of water into the new channel;
      (10)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the channel
enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless necessitated
by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is justified as
part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project;
      (11)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control project,
there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage outside the
floodway as a result of the modification; and
      (12)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of §§
152.025 through
152.056.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.045 SEEDING AND STABILIZATION PLAN.
   For all activities located in a floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan
shall be submitted by the applicant.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.046 RESERVED.
§ 152.047 PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECTS.
   For public flood control projects, the permitting requirements of this
section will be considered met if the applicant can demonstrate to IDNR-OWR
through hydraulic and hydrologic calculations that the proposed project will
not singularly or cumulatively result in increased flood heights outside the
project right-of-way or easements for all flood events up to and including the
100-year frequency event.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.048 GENERAL CRITERIA FOR ANALYSIS OF FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the regulatory floodway
study, referenced in §
152.004, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study data
appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR-OWR shall be contacted
for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data to use.
   (B)   If the 100-year regulatory floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
      (1)   The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the regulatory floodway conditions; and
      (2)   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water elevations.
   (C)   If the applicant learns from IDNR-OWR, local governments, or a private
owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to be
removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.049 CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION.
   (A)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the regulatory
floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant
shall submit to IDNR-OWR and to FEMA all the information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional regulatory floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR-OWR a conditional approval of the regulatory floodway
change before a permit is issued. A public notice inviting public comment on
the proposed change in BFE or location of the regulatory floodway will be
issued by IDNR-OWR or its designee before a CLOMR is issued.
   (B)   However, the final regulatory floodway map will not be changed by
IDNR-OWR until as built plans or record drawings are submitted and accepted by
FEMA and IDNR-OWR.
   (C)   In the case of non-government projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional regulatory floodway map revision before IDNR-OWR approval
can be given.
   (D)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place until a
conditional approval is issued.
   (E)   No further development activities shall take place until a final
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) is issued by FEMA and IDNR-OWR.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.050 PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER’S SUPERVISION.
   All engineering analyses shall be performed by or under the supervision of a
registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051 BUFFER STRIPS.
   For all activities in the floodway involving construction within 25 feet as
defined by the Village of Frankfort Design Standards of the channel, the
following criteria shall be met:
   (A)   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at least
25 feet of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
   (B)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
   (C)   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided, when necessary, for
stream maintenance purposes.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052 WHEN CONSTRUCTION MAY PROCEED; RESTRICTIONS.
   After receipt of conditional approval of the regulatory floodway change and
issuance of a permit and a Conditional Letter of Map Revision, construction as
necessary to change the regulatory floodway designation may proceed but no
buildings or structures or other construction that is not an appropriate use
may be placed in that area until the regulatory floodway map is changed and a
final Letter of Map Revision is received. The regulatory floodway map will be
revised upon acceptance and concurrence by IDNR-OWR and FEMA of the “as built”
plans.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES IN DELEGATED COMMUNITIES REQUIRING STATE
REVIEW.
   For those projects listed below located in a regulatory floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR-OWR for their review and
concurrence and/or permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or
county delegated state permitting authority in the floodway:
   (A)   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge
pursuant to §
152.088.
   (B)   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to §
152.489.
   (C)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent storage
pursuant to §§
152.036,
152.037, and
152.043.
   (D)   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in §
152.002) and all other state, federal or local units of government projects,
including projects of the municipality or county.
   (E)   An engineer’s determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
   (F)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood profiles.
   (G)   Projects in public bodies of water.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.054 OTHER PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a development
permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless the
applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not
required from IDNR-OWR, issued pursuant to ILCS Chapter 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et
seq.
   (B)   No correspondence from IDNR-OWR shall be required if the project meets
the requirements of Regional Permit 3.
   (C)   No permit from IDNR-OWR shall be required if the IDNR-OWR has
delegated this responsibility to the village.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.055 PERMITS FOR DAMS.
   (A)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a dam
as defined in §
152.002 per 17 Ill. Adm. Code, Chapter I, IDNR Part 3702 (Rules for
Construction of Dams) shall obtain an IDNR dam safety permit prior to the start
of construction of a dam.
   (B)   If the Code Enforcement Official finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR-OWR permit, the Code Enforcement Official shall immediately notify the
IDNR-OWR Bartlett Office.
   (C)   If the Code Enforcement Official finds a dam which is believed to be
in unsafe condition, the Code Enforcement Official shall immediately notify the
owner of the dam, the IDNR-OWR Bartlett Office and the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA).
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056 ACTIVITIES THAT DO NOT REQUIRE A REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER’S
REVIEW.
   The following activities may be permitted without a registered professional
engineer’s review. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
   Regional Permit 3, which authorizes, for example, underground and overhead
utilities, storm and sanitary sewer outfalls, sidewalks, patios, athletic
fields, playground equipment and streambank protection activities; may be
permitted without a licensed P.E.’s review. Such activities shall still meet
the other requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
OCCUPATION AND USE OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED
§ 152.065 DEVELOPMENT IN SFHA OR REGULATED FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   In SFHA or floodplains, where no floodway have been identified and no
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations have been established by
FEMA, and draining more than a square mile, development must meet the
requirements of the IDNR-OWR, and no development shall be permitted unless the
cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the
flow and passage of the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
   (B)   The applicant shall obtain approval from the IDNR-OWR for all
development any portion of which is located partially or completely within the
regulatory floodplain (without a delineated regulatory floodway) with a
tributary drainage area of one square mile or more.
   (C)   The development shall not singularly or cumulatively result in an
obstruction of flood flows or potential flood damages outside the site due to
an increase in flood heights, velocities, or loss of floodplain area storage.
   (D)   No new structures or buildings with basements are permitted within the
SFHA as determined by elevation from an FIS or detailed flood study. All
buildable residential and nonresidential lots must be outside the SFHA for new
development to minimize flood risk associated with base flood and higher-
magnitude floods. Subdivisions and planned unit developments are required to
obtain a Letter of Map Revision from FEMA in accordance with §
152.091.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in a SFHA or floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Administrative Department. Application
for a development permit shall be made on a form provided by the Administrative
Department. The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn
to scale showing:
      (1)   Property line dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling, sealed by a licensed engineer or surveyor;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) and walk-out
and look-out elevations and locations, of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087.
   (B)   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
      (1)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose, and
intended use;
      (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the regulatory floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      (3)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      (4)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         (a)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         (b)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1988 adjustment) datum or NA
VD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow, and
a graphical or numerical scale;
         (c)   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, ten-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical); and
         (d)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
All erosion and sediment control requirements of the Village of Frankfort
Design Standards Section 2 and NPDES II shall also apply.
      (5)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of §
152.069.
      (6)   Any and all other local, state and federal permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.067 ELEVATION OF DEVELOPMENT SITE TO BE COMPARED TO BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   Based on the best available existing data according to federal, state
or other sources, the Administrative Department shall compare the elevation of
the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Should no
elevation information exist for the site, the developer’s engineer shall
calculate the elevation according to §
152.004. Any development located on land that can be shown to have been higher
than the base flood elevation as of the sites first Flood Insurance Rate Map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. The Administrative Department shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification. The Administrative
Department shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all
other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or waivers that may be
required for this type of activity. The Administrative Department shall not
issue the development permit unless all required federal, state, and local
permits have been obtained.
   (B)   All National Flood Insurance Program Map determinations done by the
village shall be assessed a fee in a sum to be determined from time to time by
the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT IN REGARD TO PERMITS.
   The Administrative Department shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other local, state, and federal permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Administrative Department shall not issue the development permit unless all
required local, state and federal permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.069 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   No development in the SFHA, where a floodway has not been determined shall
create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity
or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair the natural hydro
logic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or impair existing
water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by
appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter. No new structures
or buildings with basements are permitted within the SFHA as determined by
elevation from an FIS or detailed flood study. All buildable residential and
nonresidential lots must be outside the SFHA for new development to minimize
flood risk associated with base flood and higher magnitude floods. Subdivisions
and planned unit developments are required to obtain a Letter of Map Revision
from FEMA in accordance with §
152.091.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.070 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE SFHA.
   Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been determined, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   The developer shall have a registered professional engineer state in
writing and show through supporting plans, calculations, and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of §§
152.036 through
152.047 for the entire floodplain as calculated under the provisions of §
152.004. As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering study
performed to determine a floodway and demonstrate that the proposed development
will maintain the existing conditions conveyance, will not increase flood
velocities, will not increase flood profiles and will compensate for any lost
floodplain storage and then submit engineering studies to IDNR-OWR for
acceptance as a regulatory floodway. Upon acceptance of their floodway by the
department, the developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the
requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087 for the regulatory floodway. The floodway shall be defined according to
the definition in §
152.002.
   (B)   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit from IDNR-OWR or written documentation that a permit is not
required from IDNR-OWR.
   (C)   No permit from IDNR-OWR shall be required if the IDNR-OWR has
delegated permit responsibility to the Village per 17 Ill. Adm. Code, Chapter
I, IDNR Part 3708 (Floodway Construction in Northeastern Illinois) for
regulatory floodway, per IDNR-OWR’s statewide permit entitled “Construction in
Floodplains with No Designated Floodway in Northeastern Illinois.”
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.071 PERMITS FOR DAMS.
   (A)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a dam
or an on-stream structure to impound water as defined in §
152.002 per 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams) shall
obtain an IDNR-OWR permit or letter indicating a permit is not required prior
to the start of construction of a dam.
   (B)   If the Administrative Department finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR-OWR permit, the Administrative Department shall immediately notify the Dam
Safety Section of IDNR-OWR Bartlett Office.
   (C)   If the Administrative Department finds a dam which is believed to be
in unsafe condition, the Administrative Department shall immediately notify the
owner of the dam and the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
(ESDA), and the IDNR-OWR Bartlett Office and the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency (IEMA).
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.072 ACTIVITIES PERMITTED WITHOUT REVIEW.
   The following activities may be permitted without a registered professional
engineer’s review or calculation of a base flood elevation and regulatory
floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of this
chapter:
   (A)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 2;
   (B)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 3;
   (C)   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 4;
   (D)   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No.
5; gravel;
   (E)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 6; activities (not involving fill or positive change in
grade) are covered by this permit;
   (F)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
   (G)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
   (H)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
   (I)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
   (J)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 11;
   (K)   802.3.11 Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge
widenings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
   (L)   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 13;
   (M)   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 14; and
   (N)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely within a
flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit requirements.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.073 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY TO BE MAINTAINED.
   The flood-carrying capacity within any altered or relocated watercourse
shall be maintained.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.074 COMPENSATORY STORAGE.
   (A)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the volume
of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated for and
balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from below
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Detention volume and
associated berming within the SFHA shall be considered as fill if it occupies
volume that was previously occupied by the base flood.
   (B)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of
streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to
the areas so filled or occupied.
   (C)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All such excavations
shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse and shall be
located adjacent to the development.
   (D)   The fill material shall be homogeneous and isotropic and compacted to
at least 95% (Standard Proctor).
   (E)   Finished grade shall be 4:1 maximum and 1% minimum. Retaining walls,
excluding control structures, are not permitted below the BFE.
   (F)   Adequate protection is required for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters
with expected velocities during the occurrence of the base flood of 5 fps or
less by covering them with vegetation undergrowth (grass, vines, etc.).
   (G)   Adequate protection is required for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters
with expected velocities during the occurrence of the base flood greater than 5
fps by covering them with stone or rock slope protection or other material
acceptable to the village.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.080 ADDITIONAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements found in this chapter, all properties
shall comply with the Will County Stormwater Management Ordinance (latest
version).
   (B)   In addition to the requirements found in §§
152.015 through
152.018,
152.025 through
152.056,
152.065 through
152.074 for development in flood fringes, regulatory floodways, and SFHA or
floodplains where no floodways have been identified (Zones A, AO, AH, AE, Al-
A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M or E), the following requirements shall be met.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS.
   (A)   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE.
   (B)   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, and sanitary sewer
lines may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
located below the FPE are watertight.
   (C)   New on-site waste disposal systems, such as septic systems, are
allowed in the regulatory floodplain only if they meet all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The invert of any wastewater distribution lines shall be a minimum
of two feet above the water surface elevation of the base flow of any perennial
stream;
      (2)   The lateral distance from a ditch, creek, or other riverine source
to the wastewater distribution lines shall be a minimum of 75 feet;
      (3)   The elevation of any areas which are to receive wastewater
distribution shall be above the ordinary high-water mark;
      (4)   The soil of the receiving field shall be of a type suitable for
septic fields;
      (5)   The tank shall be placed out of the floodplain with the invert of
the outlet above the BFE.
      (6)   A permit for the disposal system is approved by the appropriate
jurisdictional authority, namely the County Public Health Department, IEPA or
other.
   (D)   New, substantially improved or replacement wastewater treatment plants
shall have watertight openings for those openings located below the FPE. Such
facilities should be located to avoid impairment to the facility or
contamination of floodwaters during the base flood.
   (E)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall
be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (F)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.082 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities and the
State Coordinating Office in writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit
for the alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.083 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   All existing buildings located within and immediately adjacent
to a 100-year floodplain also known as a SFHA, shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. No new structures or buildings
with basements are permitted within the SFHA as determined by elevation from an
FIS or detailed flood study. All buildable residential and nonresidential lots
must be outside the SFHA for new development to minimize flood risk associated
with base flood and higher-magnitude floods. Subdivisions and planned unit
developments are required to obtain a Letter of Map Revision from FEMA in
accordance with §
152.091.
      (2)   However, existing buildings located within a regulatory floodway
shall also meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in §§
152.025 through
152.056.
   (B)   This building protection criteria applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively during
the life of the building. If substantially improved, the existing structure and
the addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section;
      (3)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This building protection requirements does not apply
to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to avoid flood damage; and
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days. This
building protection requirement may be met by one of the following methods set
forth in §§
152.084 through
152.086.
      (5)   Repetitive loss to an existing building.
      (6)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.084 SITE GRADING, FILL, AND BUILDINGS ADJACENT TO SFHA.
   A new residential or non-residential building with a basement may not be
constructed on permanent land fill. New residential or non-residential
buildings within the SFHA, within shaded Zone X and adjacent to SFHA shall be
constructed in accordance with the following:
   (A)   The lowest floor, (including basement), and openings for walk-out and
look-out foundations, shall be at or above the flood protection elevation. An
attached garage for a structure shall be at least one foot above the BFE.
   (B)   Attendant utility and sanitary facilities for non-residential
structures, shall be designed so that below the FPE, the structures are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches deep
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation. The top of
the fill shall be at or above the flood protection elevation. The fill shall be
protected against erosion and scour. The fill shall be composed of rock or soil
and not incorporated debris or refuse materials. The fill shall not adversely
affect the flow or surface drainage from or onto neighboring properties.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.085 ELEVATING BUILDINGS.
   An existing residential or non-residential building, substantial
improvement, and associated additions within the SFHA meeting all other
criteria of this chapter may be designed, modified, anchored, or elevated to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure in accordance
with the following:
   (A)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space, stilts,
piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters and
not subject to damage by buoyancy or hydrostatic pressures of the base flood or
100-year frequency flood by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each wall shall be
no more than one foot above grade and consists of a minimum of two openings.
The openings must have a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed are subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
   (B)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned in
relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure to
known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
   (C)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be constructed of
materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement,
crawlspaces, and walk-out basements) and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment, utility meters, and other service
facilities shall be designed and/or located at or above the flood protection
elevation and to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the flood protection elevation.
   (D)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for storage
of items or materials.
   (E)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site for
more than 180 days, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation to or above the
flood protection elevation and securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules and
Regulations from the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77
Ill. Adm. Code 870. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited
to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles shall be located outside of all regulatory
floodplain and floodway.
   (G)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the above conditions are met as well
as the following conditions:
      (1)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
      (2)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
      (3)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event.
      (4)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.086 FLOODPROOFING OF PROPOSED AND EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   New buildings adjacent to the SFHA and within shaded Zone X shall be
elevated to the FPE. Dry floodproofing for new buildings is not permitted in
lieu of compliance with the FPE requirements.
   (B)   Accessory structures, such as tool sheds, which are not substantial
improvements on an existing single-family lot, may be constructed with the
lowest floor below the FPE in accordance with all of the following criteria.
      (1)   The building shall not be used for human habitation, nor have water
or sanitary sewer service.
      (2)   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed with waterproof
material. Structures located in a regulatory floodway shall meet §§
152.025 through
152.056.
      (3)   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation and movement.
      (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to the FPE.
      (5)   The building shall be no greater than 600 square feet in floor
size. The building shall meet permanent opening criteria as established by the
Will County Stormwater Ordinance.
      (6)   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain basements or other rooms, workshops, greenhouses,
storage of hazardous materials, or similar uses.
      (7)   If located in a designated floodway, the structure shall be
constructed and placed on a building site so as not to block flood flows nor
reduce floodway storage and shall also meet the appropriate use criteria of §
152.028(B)(6) and all other applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Any modification to an existing structure with dry floodproofing shall
provide the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or structural engineer shall
certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the FPE;
the elevation to which the structure was floodproofed, and the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the BFE. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves,
or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      (2)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, flood walls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this section.
   (D)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the BFE shall be provided to all critical
facilities.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.087 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also meet the
more restrictive appropriate use standards. Non-conforming structures located
in a regulatory floodway may remain in use, but may not be enlarged, replaced
or structurally altered. A non-conforming structure damaged by flood, fire,
wind or other natural or man-made disaster may be restored unless the damage
equals or exceeds 50% of its market value before it was damaged, in which case
it shall conform to this chapter.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.088 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW BRIDGES OR CULVERT CROSSINGS AND ROADWAY
APPROACHES.
   (A)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one- tenth of a foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements. If the proposed construction will increase
upstream flood stages greater than one-tenth of a foot, the developer must
contact IDNR-OWR Dam Safety Section for a dam safety permit or waiver.
   (B)   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be calculated
using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for tailwater
conditions for the flood study specified in §
152.004. Bridges and culverts must be analyzed using any commonly accepted FEMA
approved hydraulic models.
   (C)   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per §
152.037.
   (D)   Velocity increases must be mitigated per §
152.038.
   (E)   If any work is proposed in, near or over a public body of water, a
permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be obtained from
IDNR-OWR.
   (F)   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge showing
the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be submitted to
IDNR-OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by §
152.028.
   (G)   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be designed
per §
152.043.
   (H)   For modification or replacement of existing structures, the existing
structure must first be evaluated in accordance with IDNR-OWR Rules to
determine if the existing structure is a source of flood damage. If the
structure is a source of flood damage, the applicant’s engineer shall submit
justification to allow the damage to continue and evaluate the feasibility of
relieving the structure’s impact. Modifications or replacement structures shall
not increase flood stages compared to the existing condition for all flood
events up to and including the base flood event. The evaluation must be
submitted to IDNR-OWR, for review and concurrence before a permit is issued.
The village shall be copied on all related correspondence.
   (I)   Construction vehicles shall cross streams by the means of existing
bridges or culverts. Where an existing crossing is not available, a temporary
crossing that has been issued a permit or waiver by IDNR-OWR shall be
constructed in which:
      (1)   The approach roads will be one-half foot or less above the existing
grade.
      (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the
water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall.
      (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be non-
erosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel.
      (4)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one
year after installation, unless an extension of time is granted by the village.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.089 RECONSTRUCTION OR MODIFICATION OF EXISTING BRIDGES, CULVERTS, AND
APPROACH ROADS.
   (A)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth of a foot
increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies
up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a
source of flood damage.
   (B)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a source of
flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain, the
applicant’s engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
   (C)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with the 17 Ill. Adm. Code, Chapter I, IDNR Part 3708 (Floodway Construction in
Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to the Division IDNR-OWR for review and
concurrence before a permit is issued.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.090 DETENTION FACILITIES WITHIN AND ADJACENT TO THE FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   Detention facilities located within the regulatory floodplain are
strongly discouraged but may be considered under the following considerations:
      (1)   Be located above the calculated ten-year flood elevation (including
the normal water level and lower restrictor). On stream or on-line detention
facilities will only be permitted when the precedence has been established for
the upstream portion of the SFHA and a net watershed benefit is demonstrated by
detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analysis. Any structure constructed across
the channel to impound water to meet detention requirements shall be prohibited
on any perennial stream unless part of a public flood control project with a
net watershed benefit. Those streams appearing as blue on a USGS Quadrangle Map
shall be assumed perennial unless better data is obtained. All cross stream
structures for the purpose of impounding water to provide detention in all
cases on perennial and intermittent streams must demonstrate that they will not
cause short term or long term stream channel instability.
      (2)   Store the required amount of site runoff to meet the release rate
requirement under all stream flow and backwater conditions in the receiving
stream up to the ten-year flood elevation; and
      (3)   Comply with the Village of Frankfort Design Standards Section 4.03
E-10 updated July 2007 or as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Detention facilities located adjacent to-the regulatory floodplain
shall:
      (1)   Be located above the calculated ten-year flood elevation (including
the normal water level and lower restrictor).
      (2)   Store the required amount of site runoff to meet the release rate
requirement under all stream flow and backwater conditions in the receiving
stream up to the ten-year flood elevation; and
      (3)   Comply with the Village of Frankfort Design Standards Section 4.03
E-10 updated July 2007 or as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 LETTER OF MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   All buildable residential and nonresidential lots must be outside the
SFHA for new development.
   (B)   Subdivisions and planned unit developments are required to obtain a
Letter of Map Revision prior to the village issuing building permits for lots
identified as lying inside an SFHA based on FEMA’s current effective FIRM.
   (C)   All final plats of subdivision and final plats of PUD shall list all
lots lying inside the SFHA based on FEMA’s current effective FIRM and as being
permit restricted until the LOMR is approved and copy provided to the village.
   (D)   Under certain conditions, when engineered earthen fill is placed
within an SFHA to raise the surface of the ground to or above the BFE, a
request may be submitted to FEMA to revise the FIRM to indicate that the filled
land is outside of the SFHA.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.100 FLOOD HAZARDS TO AFFECT LAND MANAGEMENT.
   The Board of Trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent
that they are know in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.101 DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS TO BE REVIEWED FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   New development, buildings including homes, subdivisions, manufactured home
parks, annexation agreements, and planned unit developments (PUDs) within the
SFHA shall be reviewed to assure that the proposed developments are consistent
with §§
152.015 through
152.087 and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans for new
subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs) shall
include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the plat
or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in accordance
with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.102 PROPOSALS TO INCLUDE FLOOD ELEVATION DATA.
   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this
information is not available from existing adopted study, the applicant’s
engineer shall be responsible for calculating the base flood or 100-year
floodway delineation per the definition in §
152.002 and submitting it to the State Water Survey and IDNR-OWR for review and
approval as best available regulatory data. At a minimum, the following
material shall be submitted for engineering review for all projects including
or in close proximity to regulatory floodplain:
   (A)   FIRM with scaled project limits.
   (B)   FIS profile with project limits.
   (C)   The grading plan, topographic workmap or a floodplain exhibit and the
preliminary and final plats shall include all of the following:
      (1)   Regulatory floodplain shall be delineated from the current FEMA
FIRM, FBFM or LOMR.
      (2)   Regulatory Floodway as delineated on the current effective
regulatory maps scaled using references common to both the map and the plan.
      (3)   Existing BFE by elevation (determined by FIS profile, flows and
data; elevation or depth from AH or AO zones; or detailed site specific flood
study).
      (4)   Proposed BFE by elevation (determined by detailed flood study).
      (5)   All plats shall list all lots lying inside the SFHA based on FEMA’s
current effective FIRM and as being permit restricted until the LOMR is
approved and copy provided to the village.
      (6)   Village benchmark used and correlation equation to FEMA datum (NAVD
1988).
      (7)   All existing and/or proposed buildings and structures with lowest
floor (including basements) and openings (walk-out and look-out) locations and
elevations indicated within the project limits and within 100 feet offsite.
      (8)   Existing and proposed contours and spot elevations.
      (9)   Existing and proposed drainage and utility easements.
      (10)   Erosion and sedimentation control plan/stormwater pollution
prevention plan.
   (D)   The plan set shall also include:
      (1)   Cross section locations.
      (2)   Ten-year and 100-year existing and proposed flood elevations.
   (E)   The detailed site specific flood study shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Hydrologic analysis (input and output) using TR-20 or Pond Pack as
developed by Haestad Methods, Inc. If an existing regulatory model uses the
ACOE computer model, HEC-1, that model can be used.
      (2)   Drainage area exhibit utilizing best available contour information
(with location of time of concentration path, soil types and runoff
coefficients).
      (3)   Existing and proposed hydraulic analysis (input and output) using
HEC-2, HECRAS, or WSP-2.
      (4)   Existing and proposed model cross sections.
      (5)   Existing and proposed detailed cross sections.
      (6)   Tabular summary of 100-year flood elevations and discharges for
existing and proposed conditions.
   (F)   Where compensatory storage is permitted, the calculation shall
include:
      (1)   Cross-sections with existing and proposed ten-year and 100-year
elevations labeled.
      (2)   Areas of cut and fill above and below the ten-year elevation.
      (3)   Tabular calculation of total fill, required compensatory storage
and provided compensatory storage.
   (G)   Design computations shall be made by the Design Engineer for all
phases of the project when such computations are required to facilitate review
by the Village Engineer. Said computations shall be neat and legible and in a
form considered acceptable by the Village Engineer. Said computations shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to those listed in this section of the
chapter.
   (H)   Performance security as required by the village.
   (I)   Maintenance and monitoring plan as required by the village.
   (J)   Copy of correspondence and permits relating to floodplain areas and/or
required by federal or state law, including, but not limited to those issued by
FEMA, IDNR-OWR and ACOE (Section 404).
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.103 NATURAL FEATURES TO BE PRESERVED AND UTILIZED WHENEVER POSSIBLE.
   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and
laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the flood plains shall be included within parks,
outlots or other public grounds.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.104 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees shall not approve any planned unit development (PUD)
or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
VARIANCES
§ 152.115 VARIANCES IN REGULATORY FLOOD WAY PROHIBITED; OUTSIDE FLOODWAY
EXCEPTED.
   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a regulatory
floodway as defined in §
152.002. However, when a development proposal is located outside of the
regulatory floodway, and whenever the standards of this chapter place undue
hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the
village for a variance. The Administrative Department shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.116 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCE.
   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all of
the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
   (B)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not granted;
   (C)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
   (D)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance;
   (E)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection, lost
environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operation, policing,
or repairs to stream beds and banks, road, utilities, or other public
facilities;
   (F)   The provisions of §§
152.017 and
152.069 shall still be met;
   (G)   The activity is not in a regulatory floodway;
   (H)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem;
   (I)   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character of
the area involved including existing stream uses; and
   (J)   All other required state and federal permits or waivers have been
obtained.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.117 APPLICANT TO BE NOTIFIED OF VARIANCE’S EFFECT ON PROBATION.
   The Administrative Department shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.087 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
   (A)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as
high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
   (B)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
   (C)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of this risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.118 VARIANCES MAY BE GRANTED FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a site or building
listed on the National Register of Historical Places or documented as worthy of
preservation by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of §§
152.116 and
152.117, subject to the conditions that:
   (A)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure; and
   (B)    The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.125 DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The Administrative Department shall be responsible for the general
administration and enforcement of this chapter which shall include the
following:
   (A)   Determining the floodplain designation. Check all new development
sites to determine whether they are in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). If
they are in a SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway, flood fringe or
in a floodplain on which a detailed study has not been conducted which drains
more than one square mile. Check whether the development is potentially within
an extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than on square mile), indicating
that the development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance,
or inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
   (B)   Professional engineer review. If the development site is within a
floodway or in a floodplain on which a detailed study has not been conducted
which drains more than one square mile then the permit shall be referred to a
registered professional engineer (P.E.) under the employ or contract of the
village for review to ensure that the development meets the requirements of §§
152.025 through
152.056. In the case of an appropriate use, the P.E. shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of §§
152.025 through
152.056.
   (C)   Dam safety requirements. Dams are classified as to their size and
their hazard/damage potential in the event of failure. Permits for dams may be
required from IDNR/OWR. Contact IDNR/OWR to determine if a permit is required.
If a permit is required, a permit application must be made to IDNR/OWR prior to
the construction or major modification of jurisdictional dams.
   (D)   Other permit requirements. Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   (E)   Plan review and permit issuance. Ensure that all development
activities within the SFHAs of the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter and issue a floodplain development permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this
community when the development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection review. Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
they comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Elevation and floodproofing certificates. Maintain in the permit files
an elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement, walk-out and lookout foundations) of a residential or non-
residential building or the elevation to which a nonresidential building has
been floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject
to §§
152.080 through
152.087 for public inspection and provide copies of same.
   (H)   Records for public inspection. Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and regulatory floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, Conditional
Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Amendment and “as
built elevation and floodproofing or elevation and floodproofing certificates
for all buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   (I)   State permits. Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by the IDNR-OWR, for all development projects subject to §§
152.025 through
152.074, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to the village.
Upon acceptance of this chapter by IDNR-OWR and FEMA, responsibility is hereby
delegated to the village as per 17 Ill. Adm. Code, Chapter I, IDNR Part 3 708
for construction in the regulatory floodway and floodplain when floodways have
not been defined in §§
152.025 through
152.074. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
village and shall require review or permits from IDNR-OWR:
      (1)   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      (2)   IDNR-OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in §
152.002 and all other state, federal or local unit of government projects,
including projects of the village and Will County, except for those projects
meeting the requirements of §
152.056;
      (3)   Approval of the hydraulic calculation for bridges and culverts; An
engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert crossing is not a
source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the proposed flood profile,
per §
152.089;
      (4)   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to §
152.088;
      (5)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in §§
152.036,
152.037,
152.043;
      (6)   Permit for construction and other activities in public bodies of
water pursuant to 17 Ill. Admin. Code 3708;
      (7)   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      (8)   An engineer’s determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
   (J)   Cooperation with other agencies. Cooperate with state and federal
floodplain management agencies to improve base flood or 100-year frequency
flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this chapter.
Submit data to the IDNR-OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a regulatory map
within six months whenever a modification of the floodplain may change the BFE
or result in a change to the floodplain map. Submit reports as required for the
National Flood Insurance Program. Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to
this chapter.
   (K)   Promulgate regulations. Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNROWR and FEMA for any chapter changes.
   (L)   Damage determinations. Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-190
§ 152.126 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by man-made
or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   (D)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer, consultant or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
there under.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.127 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or
resolution which was adopted to meet the National Food Insurance Program
regulations, but is not intended to repeal the resolution which the village
passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a
variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the Administrative Department may determine that a violation of
the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The Administrative Department
shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails, after ten days notice, to correct the violation,
the village may make application to the Circuit Court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as the Court
deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter.
   (C)   The village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (D)   The Administrative Department shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or maintain any grading,
excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued,
or permitted shall constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such
violation, such person, partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $750 for each offense per day. In addition to any other
penalty authorized by this section, any person, partnership, or corporation
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be required
to restore the site to the condition exiting prior to commission of the
violation, or to bear the expense of such restoration.
(Ord. 3187, passed 1-22-19)
CHAPTER 153: DEDICATION OF SCHOOL AND PARK SITES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Regulations part of Official Village Plan
   
153.02   Requirements of other ordinances
   
153.03   Introduction
   
153.04   Successors
   
153.05   Indemnification
Criteria for Requiring Dedication of Land for School Sites
   
153.15   Land requirements and population ratio
   
153.16   Calculation of land donation
   
153.17   Calculation for cash in lieu of land
   
153.18   School classification and size of school site
   
153.19   Density formula
   
153.20   School plat review
Payments and Land Contributions
   
153.30   Time of conveyance of payment
   
153.31   Land donation
   
153.32   Land donation requirements
   
153.33   Cash contributions in lieu of a school site
   
153.34   Combined land donations and cash contributions
   
153.35   Letter of credit or cash contribution in lieu of land dedication
   
153.36   Distribution of contributions
   
153.37   Waiver
   
153.38   Private agreements
   
153.39   Annexations
Dedication of Park Sites and Payments of Fee in Lieu Thereof
   
153.50   Introduction
   
153.51   Criteria for requiring park and recreation land dedication
   
153.52   Contributions in lieu of park sites
   
153.53   Density formula
   
153.54   Procedure for making contributions
   
153.55   Reservation of additional land
   
153.56   Combining with adjoining developments
   
153.57   Topography and grading
   
153.58   Improved sites
   
153.59   Title to sites
   
153.60   Sale of land; proceeds
   
153.61   Annexations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 REGULATIONS PART OF OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN.
   This chapter is hereby incorporated as a part of the official village plan.
(Ord. 1500, passed 3-6-95)
§ 153.02 REQUIREMENTS OF OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Where any other ordinance of the village requires a larger amount of
property for school sites in a particular subdivision or planned unit
development than the subdivider or developer of a planned unit development is
required to dedicate by virtue of the provisions of this chapter, such other
ordinance shall prevail and be complied with.
(Ord. 1500, passed 3-6-95)
§ 153.03 INTRODUCTION.
   As a condition of approval of any final plat of subdivision or a planned
unit development that is intended to be used or capable of being used, entirely
or in part, for residential purposes, the applicant, subdivider, builder,
property owner, or a developer (hereafter collectively referred to as
“developer”) will be required to dedicate land for school sites, to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or to pay a
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both
at the option of the village, in accordance with the criteria and formula set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.04 SUCCESSORS.
   In the event the village, or any of the school districts shall cease being
in existence, then this chapter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit
of the successor municipality, or school district, as the case may be, whose
boundaries include the applicable subdivision, or planned unit development.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   As a condition precedent to the village requiring any developer to
contribute any land or cash in lieu of land or combination of cash and land to
any school district, or park district each school district or park district
shall execute and deliver to the village an indemnification agreement in a form
approved by the village which among other things provides such district will
indemnify and hold the Village of Frankfort, its President, Board of Trustees,
officers, officials, employees, staff, agents and representatives and their
respective representatives, successors and heirs harmless from any claims,
demands, suits, proceedings, settlements, orders, judgments and decisions of
any type which has any reasonably logical or factual relationship to this
chapter including but not limited to:
      (1)   The studies and methodologies for determination of any
contributions.
      (2)   Objection or appeal process or determination.
      (3)   Collection or payment of any funds to benefit school districts.
      (4)   The refund, credit for or return of funds or reconveyance of land
related to this chapter.
      (5)   The dedication of any land to benefit any district.
      (6)   The use of any land or funds required under this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, the school district(s) or park district will pay all of
the village's reasonable attorneys, expert witnesses, staff, and all other
related fees, costs and expenses, provided that prior to incurring any
significant fees, the village shall consult with the affected districts. The
foregoing indemnity shall not apply to willful misconduct on the part of the
village. If any district fails to execute and deliver the indemnification
agreement, the village is under no obligation to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING DEDICATION OF LAND FOR SCHOOL SITES
§ 153.15 LAND REQUIREMENTS AND POPULATION RATIO.
   The ultimate number of students to be generated by a subdivision or planned
unit development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required to be
dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement shall be determined
by dividing (i) the estimated number of children in each of the school age
classifications set forth in the table in §
153.19 below that will be generated by the proposed subdivision or planned unit
development by (ii) the maximum recommended number of students that can be
served in each such school classification as stated in §
153.18, and then multiplying the foregoing derived quotient by (iii) the
minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of each such school
classification as provided in §
153.18.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.16 CALCULATION OF LAND DONATION.
   The product derived by the immediately foregoing multiplication calculation
in §
153.15 shall constitute the number of acres for elementary, middle, and high
school purposes in order to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the
estimated number of increased children in each such school classification as a
result of the development of the proposed subdivision or planned unit
development.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.17 CALCULATION FOR CASH IN LIEU OF LAND.
   When the required land contribution calculated above is too small to be
practical for use as a school site or when the available land is inappropriate
for a school site, or when the development requires improvements or additions
to existing school sites, the village shall require the developer to pay a cash
contribution in lieu of the land dedication required. The required amount shall
be the product of the number of required acres that are not being dedicated to
the school district multiplied by the fair market value of improved land, as
provided in §
153.33.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.18 SCHOOL CLASSIFICATION AND SIZE OF SCHOOL SITE.
   These requirements for acreage shall be presumed as the appropriate acreage
requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land
dedication herein. School classifications, maximum numbers of students per
school classification and minimum size of school sites within the village shall
be determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification by Maximum Number of Students Minimum Number of Acres of
Grades                   for each such School       Land for each School Site
                         Classification             of such Classification
Elementary Schools,      600 Students               11 Acres
Grades K - 5
Junior High Schools,     700 Students               29 Acres
Grades 6 - 8
High Schools, Grades 9 - 1,500 Students             45 Acres
12
 
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.19 DENSITY FORMULA.
   (A)   The following table shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication of acres of land or the cash contribution in lieu of land.
It is recognized that population, density, age distribution and local
conditions may change over the years, and the specific formula for the
dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein,
is subject to periodic review and amendment if necessary.
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIM4TE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT CHILDREN PER UNIT
           A          B          C       D        E       F          G
                      Elementary Junior  Total    High
Type of    Pre-School Grades     High    Grades   School             Total Per
Unit       0 - 4      K - 5      Grades  K - 8    Grades  Adults     Dwelling
           Years      5 - 10     6 - 8   5 -13    9 - 12  18 Years + Unit
                      Years      11 - 13 Years    14 - 17
                                 Years            Years
Detached
Single
Family
2 bedroom  0.113      0.136      0.048   0.184    0.02    1.7        2.017
3 bedroom  0.292      0.369      0.173   0.542    0.184   1.881      2.899
4 bedroom  0.418      0.53       0.298   0.828    0.36    2.158      3.764
5 bedroom  0.283      0.345      0.248   0.593  0.3     2.594      3.77
Attached
Single-
Family
1 bedroom  0          0          0       0        0       1.193      1.193
2 bedroom  0.064      0.088      0.048   0.136    0.038   1.752      1.99
3 bedroom  0.212      0.234      0.058   0.292    0.059   1.829      2.392
4 bedroom  0.323      0.322      0.154   0.476    0.173   2.173      3.145
Apartments
Efficiency 0          0          0       0        0       1.294      1.294
1 bedroom  0          0.002      0.001   0.003    0.001   1.754      1.758
2 bedroom  0.047      0.086      0.042   0.128    0.046   1.693      1.914
3 bedroom  0.052      0.234      0.123   0.357    0.118   2.526      3.053
 
   (B)   A bedroom as used in this table shall include any room which may be
used for bedroom purposes, such as a den, study, loft or extra room located on
any floor in a dwelling unit which may be converted into a permanent sleeping
area and is not clearly identified for some other specific purpose such as a
kitchen (one per unit), dining room (one per unit), living room (one per unit),
family room (one per unit) and bathrooms. The final determination of the number
of bedrooms for any residence in a development shall be made by the Village
Administrator, or his or her designee. A developer may file an original and ten
copies of a written appeal including arguments and supporting documents from
the Village Administrator or his or her designee's decision pertaining to the
number of bedrooms in any residence in a development within 30 days after the
date of this decision. The developer shall concurrently serve a copy of the
appeal on the Village Administrator, the affected school district clerk(s) and
superintendent(s) in the manner provided herein. Failure to timely appeal in
accordance with this provision shall bar an appeal or an objection at a later
time on this determination.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, service shall be made either by personal
service or by certified United States mail return receipt requested accompanied
with an affidavit fully describing the name, position, method, and date of
service. Pending appeal, the developer shall pay the school contributions based
on the initial determination of the village. Any affected school district shall
have the right, but not the obligation, to file an original and ten copies of
its response to the developer’s objection with the Village Clerk within 30 days
after receipt of the objection by the school district. The school district(s)
shall serve a copy of its response upon the Village Administrator and the
developer by personal service or certified mail and file an affidavit of such
service all as provided above.
   (D)   Based upon the parties written submittals, the Corporate Authorities
shall either affirm, reverse, reverse in part, or affirm in part, the Village
Administrator's, or his or her designee’s, bedroom determination. The Corporate
Authorities’ decision on the determination of the number of bedrooms for a
residence in a development shall be utilized by the village to determine the
developer’s land donation or cash contribution obligations under this chapter.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.20 SCHOOL PLAT REVIEW.
   The developer shall transmit copies of each subdivision plat or planned unit
development to the applicable school district at the same time as the initial
plan or plat for this development is transmitted to the village for its review.
Within 21 days after its receipt of the initial plan/plat, the school district
shall submit its written recommendations for land dedication or cash in lieu
thereof for this proposed development to the village, with a copy to the
developer.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
PAYMENTS AND LAND CONTRIBUTIONS
§ 153.30 TIME OF CONVEYANCE OR PAYMENT.
   Time of dedication of land or payment of contribution in lieu of land.
   (A)   Land shall be dedicated to the appropriate school district or
districts, within 30 days after recording the final plat of subdivision or plat
for a planned unit development.
   (B)   Contributions of cash in lieu of or in combination with land for each
lot shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit subject to the
security required in §
153.35. However, all contributions must be paid regardless of the issuance of
building permits within two years after the date of final plat or planned unit
development approval. No building permit shall be issued for a development
until the developer has dedicated the land, paid the cash in lieu of land, or
combination of both in full.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.31 LAND DONATION.
   (A)   Location. School sites shall be located in accordance with plans
adopted by the applicable school district. For purposes of this chapter,
schools may be located within two miles of the village corporate limits,
provided that any such schools actually serve students who reside in the
village.
   (B)   Site suitability. Prior to the closing of the purchase of any land for
development, the due diligence practice of developers is to secure soil boring
data, soil compaction test results, environmental, archaeological, drainage,
wetlands, engineering studies, data and information and other studies necessary
to evaluate the suitability of the proposed development site (the “development
documents”). If any district contemplates locating a school on the proposed
development site, the developer, at its sole cost, shall provide its already
prepared development documents, and prepare any additional development
documents, that pertain to the proposed school site to the applicable school
district to enable the school district to determine the suitability of the
proposed to be dedicated land for school site purposes. The applicable school
district shall have the right to reject any site which in the district’s sole
determination, is not suitable for school site purposes. If a school district
rejects a proposed site, the developer shall provide an alternative site, or if
an additional site is unavailable, then the developer shall provide cash in
lieu of the land dedication in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Improved land. For purposes of this chapter, IMPROVED LAND shall be
defined as vacant, entitled, fully improved land, which includes, but is not
limited to improved streets with curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electricity, potable water, gas, telephone, and
communication utilities, such as cable and internet, available at the property
lines, and fine grading and grass seed. Sanitary sewer and water mains shall be
appropriately sized for a school and extended to each school site within a
right-of-way or easement designated by the village. Sidewalks shall be provided
along all street frontages. At least 20% of the perimeter of the site shall
have frontage on not less than two streets. The site shall be developed to the
standards set forth in the village ordinances.
   (D)   Additional developer requirements. Any developer that dedicates land
to a school district shall comply with the requirements for land donations
contained in §
153.32.
   (E)   Reservation of additional land. Where the Comprehensive Plan of the
village calls for a larger size school site(s) in a particular proposed
subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required to
dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer’s contribution shall, if
determined by the Corporate Authorities, be reserved for subsequent purchase by
the village or other public body designated by the village provided that such
acquisition is made within one year from the date of approval of the final
plat.
   (F)   Combining with adjoining developments. Where the subdivision or
planned unit development is less than 40 acres, a school site which is to be
dedicated should, where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining
developments in order to produce usable school sites without hardship on a
particular developer.
   (G)   Unnecessary land. When, in the opinion of the school district holding
title to any parcel of land dedicated under this chapter, any such parcel has
become unnecessary or unsuitable or inconvenient, such parcel may be sold as
provided by applicable statutory authority and the proceeds shall be held in
trust by such school district, solely for such uses as are provided for in this
chapter, and the proceeds shall be subject to the ten-year commitment for
expenditure requirements from and after the date when the land is converted to
cash proceeds.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.32 LAND DONATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Developers that donate land under this chapter to a school district shall
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Archaeological and environmental audit and indemnification.
      (1)   Prior to conveyance to a school district of any land, the intended
school district shall be furnished with (i) an archaeological report that
examines the existence of subsurface items of historical significance and (ii)
an environmental risk audit prepared by an environmental professional meeting
the minimum requirements of ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii) certified
to and acceptable to the grantee assuring the grantee that there are no
“hazardous substances” or “underground storage tanks” (as hereinafter defined)
on, under, to or from the property. This environmental audit shall be what is
commonly referred to as a Phase I Environmental Audit, which shall meet the
minimum requirements for a Pre-Acquisition Audit as set forth in ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5, § 22.2(j)(6)(E)(v) (the “Phase I Audit”). In the event the Phase I audit
does not conclude that there is no presence or likely presence of a release or
substantial threat of a release of hazardous substance(s) or pesticide or the
presence of an underground storage tank on, under, to or from the property, the
developer shall furnish a Phase II Environmental Audit which meets the minimum
requirements for a Pre-Acquisition Phase II Environmental Audit as set forth in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.2(j)(6)(E)(vi), including a soil toxicity analysis
and recommendation from the environmental professional meeting the minimum
requirements of ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii) which concludes that
there is no presence or likely presence of a release or substantial threat of a
release of hazardous substances on, under, to or from the subject property, and
certifying that in the judgment of the environmental professional there is no
reasonable probability that the land contains any hazardous substances in
violation of any federal or state environmental standards.
   In the event said Phase II Environmental Audit and/or soil toxicity analysis
discloses the presence or likely presence of a release or a substantial threat
of a release of any hazardous substances or the presence of an underground
storage tank at, on, under, to or from the land to be conveyed, the developer
shall first cause all such hazardous substances and underground storage tanks
to be removed at its sole cost and expense in accordance with all federal,
estate and local environmental laws, rules and regulations and furnish the
intended grantee with an unconditional “No Further Remediation Letter” (i.e.,
without restriction or reference to a site safety plan for future excavation
and/or construction of and removing soil contamination on the site) from the
governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the clean up prior to conveyance
of any of the land to the intended grantee. Prior to the conveyance of the
land, the developer and the owner of the land to be conveyed, shall execute and
deliver to the intended school district, an environmental indemnification
agreement in form approved by the applicable school district’s attorney,
agreeing to defend, indemnify and hold the village, its President and Board of
Trustees, officers, officials, employees, agents, successors and assigns, and
the applicable school district and its respective President, Board of Trustees,
officers, officials, employees, agents, successors and assigns, harmless from
and against any and all liability, claims, damages, causes of action and
expenses arising out of the presence of any hazardous substances or underground
storage tanks (hereinafter defined) in, under or upon the land to be conveyed
prior to the date of conveyance.
      (2)   The term HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE shall mean any substance, material,
waste, gas or particulate matter which is regulated by any local governmental
authority, the State of Illinois, the United States Government, or which is
         (a)   Defined as a “hazardous waste,” “hazardous material,” “hazardous
substance,” “extremely hazardous waste,” or “restricted hazardous waste” under
any provision of Illinois law;
         (b)   Petroleum;
         (c)   Asbestos;
         (d)   Polychlorinated biphenyl;
         (e)   Radioactive material;
         (f)   Designated as a “hazardous substance” pursuant to the Clean
Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.;
         (g)   Defined as a “hazardous waste” pursuant to the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
         (h)   Defined as a “hazardous substance” pursuant to the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et
seq.;
         (i)   Defined as a “hazardous substance” under Illinois Environmental
Protection Act (IEPA), ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 1, et seq.;
         (j)   Any matter giving rise to liability under any common law theory
based on nuisance or strict liability; and
         (k)   Any substance or material defined or designated as hazardous or
toxic waste, hazardous or toxic materials, a hazardous or toxic substance, or
other similar term by any federal, state or local environmental statute,
regulation or ordinance presently in effect or that may be promulgated in the
future as such statutes, regulations or ordinance may be amended from time to
time through the closing.
      (3)   The term UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK shall mean and include all
underground storage tanks as defined in Section 9001 of the RCRA, 42 U.S.C. §
6991, and for purposes of this chapter, shall additionally mean and include all
underground storage tanks specifically excluded under subparagraphs (a) through
(i) of Section 9001 of RCRA, and shall also include any such tanks which would
be included in Section 900 l(i) of RCRA but for the fact that they contain
hazardous wastes.
   (B)   Soil conditions. The developer, at its own expense, shall provide to
the school district soil boring data, soil compaction test results and such
other engineering studies, data and information pertaining to the proposed
school site, which the school district may request to enable it to determine
the suitability of the proposed land dedication for school site purposes. The
school district shall have the right to reject any site which the school
district determines, in accordance with sound engineering practices, is not
suitable for school site purposes. Soil conditions shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   On sites (or those portions of the sites) not requiring fill, the
soils shall have a bearing of no less than 3,000 pounds per square foot for
building areas, parking lot areas and other areas that will be required to
support structures. All open space areas that will be used for sport fields,
dry bottom detention facilities or other open space uses, the soils shall have
a bearing of no less than 2,500 pounds per square foot. No minimum soil support
values are required for areas that will accommodate wetlands, flood plains,
riparian ways or wet bottom detention facilities.
      (2)   On sites (or portions of the sites) requiring fills, only clean
clay soil materials with an unconfined compression strength of 2,500 pounds per
square inch (prior to compaction) (“clean clay fill”) shall be placed in
compacted layers of not more than 12 inches each within five feet of the
approved subgrade for the site as determined by the final engineering plans
therefor approved by the Village Engineer. For fill below said five feet of
compacted clay, only clean clay fill or “Clean Construction of Demolition
Debris” as defined in Section 3.160 of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.160) may be used to fill the site, except that in
no event shall reclaimed asphalt materials be used as fill material. The fill
materials shall be compacted to a minimum of:
         (a)   Ninety-five percent of modified proctor for those areas of the
site that will support buildings, parking lots and other structures;
         (b)   Ninety percent of modified proctor sport fields, dry bottom
detention facilities or other open space uses;
         (c)   Fills shall be placed in lifts no greater than 12 inches thick;
         (d)   One compaction test will be required for each 12 inch lift of
fill and for every 10,000 square feet of surface area filled;
         (e)   The village shall receive copies of the compaction tests for
each lift prior to the placement of the next lift; and
         (f)   The filled area shall be graded in a uniform manner in order to
provide a surface that will drain freely and not pocket water.
      (3)   In addition:
         (a)   Soils shall not differ from those naturally occurring;
         (b)   Soils shall not offer any restriction to the ultimate use of the
property;
         (c)   Topsoil shall be spread evenly and lightly compacted to a
minimum depth of six inches over the entire site;
         (d)   Topsoil must be good, friable soils with good tillage and shall
be without any admixture of subsoil, clay, gravel, stones, debris, refuse, sand
or other subsurface elements;
         (e)   Topsoil shall not be placed in a muddy or frozen condition;
         (f)   Topsoil shall contain no toxic substances which may be harmful
to plant growth; and
         (g)   Topsoil shall be spread no later than the placement of topsoil
on the first lot adjacent to the site.
   (C)   Topography and grading. 
      (1)   The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as
its surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose. Wetlands and flood
plains may be accepted for school district ownership and maintenance, but shall
not serve as a credit toward the required dedication, unless agreed to in
writing by the school district. Storm water detention areas shall not be
accepted for ownership and maintenance, and the portion of a detention area
designed to function primarily as a component of the storm water control system
shall not serve as a credit toward the required school site dedication, unless
agreed to by the school district. Wetlands, flood plains, detention areas,
retention areas and areas of steep slope shall not be accepted as school sites
and shall not serve as a credit toward the required school site cash
contribution in lieu of land dedication, unless agreed to in writing by the
school district.
      (2)   In addition, the following site conditions and preparation
standards shall be met:
         (a)   Slope:
            1.   Should not vary greatly in appearance from existing and
adjacent slopes;
            2.   Optimum slopes range from 2% minimum to 5% maximum. No less
than 2% slope is acceptable under any circumstances;
            3.   Maximum allowable slope is 10%, except under special
conditions where greater slopes are desirable to enhance the use of the site;
and
            4.   On-site drainage patterns shall be designated and constructed
to ensure flow toward swales and drainage away from active areas.
         (b)   Grading:
            1.   Rough grading shall be completed at time of rough grading of
adjacent contiguous area;
            2.   Grading shall comply with village approved plans;
            3.   Subgrade shall be graded and compacted so it will parallel
finished grade;
            4.   Subgrade material shall be loosened and fine graded to a depth
of two to four inches. All stones over four inches in size, sticks, debris,
rubbish and other foreign substances shall be removed; and
            5.   Finished grades shall be uniform in slope between points for
which elevations have been established.
         (c)   Seeding:
            1.   All proposed school sites shall be seeded and an acceptable
stand of grass or vegetation established prior to dedication of the area;
            2.   Seeding shall be completed during the fall or spring planting
times, depending upon the recommended seed planting specifications;
            3.   Seeding shall be on moderately dry soil on a seed bed which
will easily accept and nurture germination of seeds;
            4.   Seeding shall be watered sufficiently so that the vegetation
becomes reasonably established; and
            5.   The developer shall be responsible for making necessary
reparations to the site caused by erosion or other damage. Reparations shall be
completed prior to acceptance of the site.
   (D)   Closing documents.
      (1)   Title to sites. Title to all sites shall be evidenced by an ALTA
survey certified and a title insurance policy for the benefit of the affected
school district or districts in the amount of the land value demonstrating
insurable title to such land free and clear of all encumbrances.
      (2)   Real estate taxes. The developer shall be responsible for the
payment of all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance, including any
agricultural roll back taxes which might be extended or levied against such
sites, for any tax years or periods prior to the time of conveyance.
      (3)   Conveyance. All sites shall be conveyed either by warranty or
trustee’s deed to the applicable school district or conveyed directly to the
Regional Board and School Trustees for the benefit of the school district. The
developer shall be responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such
sites, and shall be responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the
date of conveyance, including any agricultural roll back taxes which might be
extended or levied against such sites, for any tax years or periods prior to
the time of conveyance.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.33 CASH CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU OF A SCHOOL SITE.
   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites derived in §
153.15 shall be held by the recipient school district solely for use in the
acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or future needs of
students from that subdivision or development or for site improvements to any
existing school site which already serves such needs, which include school
buildings or other infrastructure necessitated and specifically and uniquely
attributed to the development, subdivision or planned unit development in
question.
   (A)   Use of cash contributions. Infrastructure under this chapter shall be
liberally construed to the maximum extent permitted by law and shall include,
but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The development of parking lots, sidewalks, traffic signals,
connections with sewer, water and electrical lines, playgrounds, recreation
grounds, and athletic fields.
      (2)   The purchase of any material, goods or equipment necessary to the
development and construction.
      (3)   The construction of buildings, additions to existing school
buildings, remodeled or renovated instructional or non-instructional spaces and
the purchase or lease of prefabricated classroom
units to be used at a school site. Instructional and classroom equipment
incorporated into the school buildings or grounds so as to become fixtures.
FIXTURE shall mean such instructional and classroom equipment which is
permanently affixed or attached to a school building, or imbedded in school
grounds, by means of cement, plaster, nails, bolts, screws, or other similar
method, such that the equipment is not removable without damage to the building
or land.
   (B)   Fair market value. 
      (1)   The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the fair
market value of the acres of improved land, as defined in §
153.31(C). It has been determined that the present fair market value of vacant
entitled land plus improvements and graded land located in that portion of the
village within the corporate limits of:
         (a)   Frankfort Community Consolidated School District 157-C, Will
County, Illinois is $130,000.
         (b)   Summit Hill School District 161-C, Will County, Illinois is
$90,000.
         (c)   Peotone Community Unit School District 207-U, Will County,
Illinois is $85,000.
         (d)   Matteson Elementary School District 159, Cook County, Illinois
is $85,000.
      (2)   2004 fair market value. The fair market value shall be
automatically adjusted in accordance with division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Annual adjustment of fair market value. The 2004 fair market value
identified in division (B)(2) above and subsequent appraisals accepted and
approved by the village as provided herein above shall be automatically
adjusted on July 1 of each calendar year, commencing on July 1, 2006. The
adjustment of the 2004 fair market value shall be based on the greater of the
following calculation in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) herein, which calculation
and information shall be submitted in writing by the school districts to the
village, provided that the school districts are not required to submit a new
appraisal, as provided in division (C)(3), each year. Notwithstanding the
information provided by other school districts, each school district may, at
its own discretion, provide any of the information below, which the specific
school district determines properly reflects the increase in fair market value
for its district. The districts shall use their best efforts to provide this
information to the village at least 60 days prior to July 1:
      (1)   “CPI” of the United States Department of Labor adjustment. The 2004
fair market value multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the “All
Items” Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (1982-84 = 100) for Chicago,
Illinois, published by the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor
Statistics (“CPI”) for the month of December preceding the year of adjustment
and the denominator of which is the CPI for the month of December preceding the
month of adjustment. If any index is calculated from a base different from the
base period 1982-84 = 100, such index shall be converted to a base period of
1982-84 = 100 by use of a conversion factor supplied by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. If the CPI is discontinued or replaced, such other governmental
cost of living index or computation which replaces the CPI shall be used in
order to obtain substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI
had not been discontinued or replaced.
      (2)   Equalized assessed valuation adjustment by the County Clerks of
Will and Cook Counties, Illinois. A calculation prepared by the district, which
is based on the extension documentation prepared by the County Clerk of Will
County, or if the property is located in Cook County, the County Clerk of Cook
County which establishes the annual percentage increase in equalized assessed
valuation of land for each township in the village.
   (D)   Appraisal. In addition to the annual adjustments provided in division
(C)(1) and (C)(2) above, the school districts may from time to time provide the
village with an appraisal of the fair market value of entitled, improved land
in the village, as defined in §
153.31(C), as determined by an appraisal prepared and certified by a member of
the Appraiser Institute submitted by the school districts and approved by the
Corporate Authorities. This appraised value shall become fair market value upon
review, approval and acceptance by the Corporate Authorities of the village.
   (E)   Objections. A developer may object to the fair market value provided
by this chapter in accordance with this division (E). If a developer fails to
object within 30 days after village approval of a final plat of subdivision or
the approval of a final plat or a planned unit development, whichever is
earlier, such developer waives any and all right to raise an objection at a
later time to the fair market value.
      (1)   Documentation for objections to fair market value of land. The
developer shall, at its sole cost, file its objection containing:
         (a)   An appraisal prepared and certified by a member of the Appraiser
Institute showing the fair market value of entitled improved land, as defined
in §
153.31(C), in the area of the development;
         (b)   An engineer’s estimate of probable cost for mass grading and the
public and site improvements for the proposed development as provided in this
chapter; and
         (c)   Such other documents it deems establishes the fair market value
of entitled and improved land in the area of development.
      (2)   Submittal of objection documents to interested parties. The
developer shall file an original and ten copies of its objection with the
Village Clerk and concurrently serve a copy of the objection upon the Village
Administrator and the affected school district’s board secretary and
superintendent by either certified United States mail return receipt requested
or by personal service and provide to the Village Clerk with evidence by
affidavit of the method, date or service and persons served and if applicable
mailing receipts of such service.
      (3)   Interested parties’ right to submit documentation. Any affected
school district shall have the right, but not the obligation, to file a
response to the developer’s objection with the Village Clerk within 30 days
after receipt of the objection by the school district. The school district(s)
shall serve a copy of its response upon the Village Administrator and the
developer by personal service or certified mail and file an affidavit of such
service all as provided above.
      (4)   Disposition of objection. The Corporate Authorities or a hearing
officer designated by it shall conduct a hearing on the objection no earlier
than 45 days after the developer files its written objection (to the Corporate
Authorities). At the hearing the developer and its representatives and the
affected school district(s) and its representative will be allowed an
opportunity to be heard. Based on the documents submitted by the parties and
the information from the hearing, the Corporate Authorities shall make a final
legislative determination of the fair market value of an acre of improved land
applicable to the proposed development. This determination shall only apply to
the proposed development and not to the general fair market value provided in
this chapter. Nothing in this division (E) shall be construed as limiting or
preventing the Corporate Authorities from utilizing the provisions for fair
market value as previously established in this chapter.
   (F)   Non-use of cash contributions. If any portion of a cash contribution
in lieu of school site, is not committed for expenditure for the purposes set
forth herein within ten years after the date of receipt, it shall be refunded
to the owners of record of all lots, except lots dedicated pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, in the subdivision for which such contribution was
made. The refund shall be paid to the person who is the owner of record on the
day which is the tenth anniversary of the receipt of such contribution. The
amount of the refund due to each lot owner shall be equal to the amount the lot
owner actually paid, or if such information is not available, then the amount
of the original contribution, divided by the total number of lots in the
subdivision (excluding only those lots which were dedicated pursuant to this
chapter) for which such contribution was made.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.34 COMBINED LAND DONATIONS AND CASH CONTRIBUTIONS.
   There may be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a
combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both
necessary. These occasions may arise when:
   (A)   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the location
for a school site and that portion of the land within the subdivision falling
within the school location shall be dedicated as a site as aforesaid, and a
cash contribution shall be required in lieu of any additional land that was
required to be dedicated;
   (B)   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and only a
small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the site. The
remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in
lieu thereof shall be required equal to the difference between the fair market
value of the land donated and the fair market value of the land to be donated;
or
   (C)   An affected school district makes a determination that a combination
of land and cash in lieu of land is in the district’s best interest and such
district provides a written request to the Corporate Authorities to that
effect, which the Corporate Authorities approve. The combination of dedicated
land and cash in lieu of land shall be in proportion to the amount the
developer is required to provide in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.35 LETTER OF CREDIT OR CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF LAND DEDICATION.
   To secure the payment of contribution of cash in lieu of land dedication
affecting plats approved for development and in addition to all other
requirements of the village, the developer shall post with the benefitting
taxing district cash or a letter of credit in the amount of 110% of the
estimated cash contribution for the development as exclusively determined by
the taxing district and approved by the Village of Frankfort. If a letter of
credit is issued, it must be issued by a sound financial institution with
offices located in the State of Illinois using a letter of credit form approved
by the village.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.36 DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   All contributions of money received by the village under this chapter shall
be distributed quarterly to the appropriate school district.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.37 WAIVER.
   An individual school district may waive all rights to contributions under
this chapter. The Village Administrator shall be notified of such waiver. Such
waiver shall not affect the rights of other school districts under this
chapter, unless a party to such agreement.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.38 PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   In addition to terms contained in an annexation or pre-annexation agreement
that allow for the payment of additional fees to a school district, an
individual school district may enter into a private agreement with a developer
who is subject to the provisions of this chapter. Such private agreement shall
place no responsibility or liability upon the village for the enforcement of
any of the provisions or terms contained therein. Specifically, in the event of
such an agreement, the village shall not enforce the requirement for payment of
funds to such individual school district prior to the issuance of a building
permit. The school district shall take full responsibility for collection of
funds and for monitoring the status of the building permit.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.39 ANNEXATIONS.
   In conjunction with any annexation intended for residential development, the
developer shall make the following contributions, which shall be incorporated
into all annexation and pre-annexation agreements between the village and a
developer:
   (A)   Land or cash in lieu. A donation of land and/or cash donations as
required by this chapter as from time to time amended and the provisions of
this chapter shall be incorporated in any annexation or pre-annexation
agreements governing such land or cash in lieu of land.
   (B)   Additional school facilities fee. It is the policy of the village to
encourage developers to meet with representatives of the affected school
district to determine if any additional school facilities fees, or other
contributions separate from and in addition to the land dedications or cash in
lieu payments required by this chapter, are necessary as a result of the impact
of the development on the school district.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
DEDICATION OF PARK SITES AND PAYMENTS OF FEE IN LIEU THEREOF
§ 153.50 INTRODUCTION.
   As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or of a final
plat of a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer will be
required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes, to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or cash
contributions in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both,
based on the recommendation of the public body which will be the recipient of
the contribution, but subject to final determination of the Village Board, in
accordance with the criteria and formula in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.51 CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Requirements and population ratio. 
      (1)   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly
upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for park sites. The total
requirement shall be ten acres of land per 1,000 of ultimate population. The
required ten acres may be allocated by the Village Board, in its discretion,
based upon the following criteria:
Types of Parks Minimum Acres per Recreation Area Size Range
                                                 1,000 People
Types of Parks                  Minimum Acres per Recreation  Size Range
                                Area                          1,000 People
Mini or Vest Pocket Park        0.20 acres                    Not applicable
Playlot                         0.5 to 2.9 acres              0.5
Neighborhood Playground         3 to 4.9 acres                1.5
Neighborhood Park and School to
6.9                             5 acres per Elementary School Not applicable
Acres per Junior High School
Neighborhood park               7 to 14.9 acres               1.5
Playfield                       15 to 40 acres or more        1.5
Regional Community Park         40 to 100 acres or more       4
 
      (2)   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall be calculated
in accordance with §
153.53(A).
   (B)   Location. Any comprehensive park and recreation plan adopted by the
park district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A park site
adjoining all elementary school sites of not less than five acres may be
considered. A central location which will serve equally the entire development
is most desirable. In large developments these sites can be located throughout
the development according to established standards for park area distances.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.52 CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU OF PARK SITES.
   (A)   Criteria for requiring a contribution in lieu of park sites. The
village shall require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in
lieu of or in combination with the land dedication required when so determined
by the park district that would be the recipient of the land, subject to final
village approval. The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held in trust by the relevant park district, solely for the
acquisition of park and recreation land as hereinbefore classified, which will
be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that
subdivision or development or for the improvement of other existing local park
and recreation land which already serves such needs. Improvement under this
section shall be liberally construed and shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the development of: parking lots; sidewalks; traffic signals;
arterial streets; collector streets; internal roadways; connections with sewer,
water and electrical lines; and streetlights, playgrounds; recreation grounds;
athletic fields; and other recreational facilities. Improvement shall also
include excavation and site preparation, and the purchase of any material goods
or equipment necessary to the development and construction. Improvement shall
further include the construction of buildings and additions to existing park
buildings. If any improvement provided for herein shall require voter
referendum approval under existing statutory authority before such funds may be
lawfully expended, then and in those cases such approval shall be first
obtained. If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation
land dedication, is not expended for the purposes set forth herein within 20
years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the owners of record of
all lots, except lots dedicated pursuant to the provisions of this section, in
the subdivision for which such contribution was made. The refund shall be paid
to the person who is the owner of record on the day which is the twentieth
anniversary of the receipt of such contribution. The amount of the refund due
to each lot owner shall be equal to the amount of the original contribution,
together with accrued interest thereon, divided by the total number of lots in
the subdivision (excluding only those lots which were dedicated pursuant to
this section) for which such contribution was made. The payment of any refunds
shall be calculated, approved and disbursed exclusively by the park district.
The Village of Frankfort shall not be liable for any refund payments.
   (B)   Fair market value. 
      (1)   The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the fair
market value of the acres of land in the area improved as specified herein,
that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and recreation and school
sites. It has been determined that the present fair market value for park
district contributions of such improved land shall be:
         (a)   Frankfort Park District has established an acre value of
$130,000 per acre for park sites, but in no event less than the amount
currently in use for determining contributions in lieu of school sites for
Frankfort Community Consolidated School District 157-C, Will County, Illinois.
         (b)   Frankfort Square Park District has established an acre value of
$70,000 per acre for park sites.
      (2)   Such figures shall be used in making any calculation herein unless
the subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the event of
any such objection the developer shall submit an appraisal showing the fair
market value of such improved land in the area of his or her development or
other evidence thereof and final determination of based upon such information
submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be
submitted to the Village Board by the park district or others.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.53 DENSITY FORMULA.
   (A)   Park dedications and contributions. The following table of population
density represents current and short-range project trends in family size for
new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required
dedication of acres of land for park sites or the cash contributions in lieu of
unless a written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer. A
written objection shall be submitted and processed in accordance with the same
procedures applicable to school site contributions set forth in §
153.19.
   POPULATION PER UNIT (PARK DONATION)
                            Total Grades High School
Type of Unit    Pre-School  K - 8        Grades        Adults     Total Per
                0 - 4 Years 5 -13 Years  9 - 12        18 Years + Dwelling Unit
                                         14 - 17 Years
Detached Single
Family
   2 bedroom 0.113       0.184        0.02          1.7        2.017
   3 bedroom 0.292       0.542        0.184         1.881      2.899
   4 bedroom 0.418       0.828        0.36          2.158      3.764
   5 bedroom 0.283       0.593        0.3           2.594      3.77
Attached
Single-Family
   1 bedroom 0           0            0             1.193      1.193
   2 bedroom 0.064       0.136        0.038         1.752      1.99
   3 bedroom 0.212       0.292        0.059         1.829      2.392
   4 bedroom 0.323       0.476        0.173         2.173      3.145
Apartments
   Efficiency0           0            0             1.294      1.294
   1 bedroom 0           0.003        0.001         1.754      1.758
   2 bedroom 0.047       0.128        0.046         1.693      1.914
   3 bedroom 0.052       0.357        0.118         2.526      3.053
NOTE: There are only three significant categories provided in this chart.
Because of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family,
only one category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus only one
category.
 
   (B)   Demographic study. In the event a subdivider or developer files a
written objection to the table of estimated ultimate population listed herein,
the subdivider or developer shall submit its own demographic study showing the
estimated population to be generated from the subdivision or planned unit
development, including a detailed explanation of the methodology used in
developing an alternative generation table. The objection shall be considered
as a request for a variance to the subdivision regulations and will be
processed in accordance with the procedures established under §
153.19. The demographic study shall be reviewed by the park district which
shall be authorized to submit a written statement of acceptance or rejection of
the objection to the plan commission within 21 days of the submittal of the
objection to the village. Final determination of the density formula to be used
in such calculations shall be made by the Village Board based upon its review
of the Plan Commission’s recommendation and the written comments submitted by
the park district in response to such objection. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment as necessary.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.54 PROCEDURE FOR MAKING CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Land contributions. Prior to the time of recording any plat or
development agreement, the park donations, if in the form of land, shall be
made in accordance with this subchapter. For all developments other than PUDs,
the ultimate population and the estimated number of children to be served in
each school classification of the subdivision shall be calculated on the basis
of a mix of bedrooms by dwelling unit type for each residential zoning
district, determined by the village on the basis of the current trends
resulting from actual permits issued in similar developments. For the purposes
of estimating the land donation requirement in PUDs, the bedroom mix used for
single-family detached dwelling units shall be based upon the bedroom mix for
that zoning district which is most representative of the lot sizes approved, as
established by the village on the basis of current trends resulting from actual
building permits issued for such representative zoning district; and the
bedroom mix used for single-family attached and multiple-family dwelling units
shall be based upon the number of units and mix of bedrooms as indicated on the
approved final PUD plat. Such contribution shall then be subject to cash
adjustment upon issuance of the final building permit in the platted area in
accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of the final building permit within the platted
area, the benefitting taxing district shall calculate the difference between
the contribution or deposit made and the actual contribution required, based
upon the actual building permits issued.
      (2)   The taxing district shall then promptly invoice the developer for
the difference, in the case of a shortfall in the contribution, and shall
provide a refund for the difference in the case of an overage. The party being
invoiced shall make payment to the taxing district within 30 days of invoice.
   (B)   Cash in lieu of land contributions. Contributions of cash in lieu of
land shall be made at time of building permit issuance and shall be determined
from the following bedroom mixes:
      (1)   For single-family detached dwellings, a three-bedroom mix
throughout the development.
      (2)   For single-family attached and multiple-family dwellings other than
apartments, a two- bedroom mix except that the actual bedroom mix shall be used
for an approved PUD.
      (3)   For apartments, the mix shall be based upon 50% of the dwelling
units being one-bedroom and 50% being two-bedroom units, except that the actual
bedroom mix shall be used for an approved PUD.
   (C)   Adjustment; cash in lieu charge. Upon the issuance of a building
permit within the platted area for a residence having more or less bedrooms
than the number used to calculate the deposit under this subchapter, an
adjustment in the cash in lieu charge based upon the actual bedroom mix shall
be made by an additional charge or refund.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.55 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.
   Where the comprehensive plan of the village calls for a larger amount of the
park and recreational land in a particular proposed subdivision or planned unit
development than the developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond
the developer’s contribution shall, if so determined by the Village Board, be
reserved for subsequent purchase by the village or park district provided that
such acquisition is made within one year from the date of approval of the final
plat.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.56 COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS.
   For all subdivisions and planned unit developments, public open space which
is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with dedications from
adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation areas without
hardship on a particular developer.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.57 TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING.
   The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites
dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not differ greatly from
surrounding land.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.58 IMPROVED SITES.
   All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage,
streetlights, and curb and gutter) as applicable to the locate of the site, or
acceptable provision made therefore. The sidewalks normally included within the
definition of “improved sites” may be delayed due to the delay time between
dedication of any such school sites and construction of school facilities
thereon.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.59 TITLE TO SITES.
   All sites shall be conveyed to the park district either by warranty or
trustee’s deed. The subdivider or developer shall be responsible for conveying
good, merchantable title to such sites, and shall be responsible for payment of
all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance, including any agricultural
rollback which might be extended or levied against such sites, for any tax
years or period prior to the time of conveyance.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.60 SALE OF LAND; PROCEEDS.
   When, in the opinion of the park district holding title to any parcel of
land dedicated under this chapter, any such parcel has become unnecessary or
unsuitable or inconvenient, such parcel may be sold as provided by applicable
statutory authority and the proceeds may be used as provided by applicable law.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.61 ANNEXATIONS.
   In conjunction with any annexation intended for residential development, the
developer shall make the following contributions, which shall be incorporated
into all annexation and pre-annexation agreements between the village and a
developer;
   (A)   Land or cash in lieu. A donation of land and/or cash donations as
required by this subchapter as from time to time amended and the provisions of
this subchapter shall be incorporated in any annexation or pre-annexation
agreements governing such land or cash in lieu of land.
   (B)   Additional park facilities fee. It is the policy of the village to
encourage developers to meet with representatives of the affected park district
to determine if any additional park facilities fees, or other contributions
separate from and in addition to the land dedications or cash in lieu payments
required by this subchapter, are necessary as a result of the impact of the
development on the park district.
(Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to all other remedies available by law or equity any person,
owner, developer or subdivider who violates any provision of this chapter is
subject to a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $750 for each day
such violation occurs. Each day shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. 2172, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2265, passed 2-21-06)
CHAPTER 154: HISTORIC DISTRICT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose of historic preservation
   
154.02   Definitions
Historic Preservation Commission
   
154.10   Composition of Historic Preservation Commission
   
154.11   Qualifications
   
154.12   Terms
   
154.13   Officers
   
154.14   Meetings
   
154.15   Powers and duties
   
154.16   Surveys and research
Landmarks and Historic District Designation
   
154.30   Criteria for landmark designation
   
154.31   Landmark designation procedures
   
154.32   Criteria for Historic District designation
   
154.33   Historic District designation procedure
Certificate of Appropriateness
   
154.40   Required
   
154.41   Exceptions
   
154.42   Application requirements
   
154.43   Standards for determination
   
154.44   Review of application
   
154.45   Issuance
   
154.46   Appeals for denial
   
154.47   Findings on appeal
   
154.48   Natural destruction or demolition
Valet Parking Services
   
154.60   Purpose
   
154.61   Definitions
   
154.62   Application and licensing
   
154.63   Rules and regulations
 
   
154.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:Map of Historical District
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation, and use of improvements of special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of health, prosperity, safety, and welfare of
the people of the village by:
   (A)   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of Frankfort that represents elements of the
village’s cultural, social, economic, political, and architectural history;
   (B)   Promoting civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of the
past as represented in the charm of the historic village;
   (C)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of
Frankfort’s landmarks and historic areas;
   (D)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the village to buyers,
visitors, and shoppers, thereby supporting commerce and providing economic
benefit to the village;
   (E)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas, and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight.
   (F)   Promoting reinvestment and adaptive reuse of structures, areas, and
neighborhoods to foster continued economic, aesthetic, architectural, and
cultural success.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases in this chapter shall be
interpreted giving them the same meaning as they have in common usage and so as
to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any structure.
   AREA. A specific geographic division of the village.
   ADDITION. Any act or process which changes one or more of  the “exterior
architectural features” of a structure designated for preservation by adding
to, joining with, or increasing the size or capacity of the structure.
   BUILDING. Any structure created for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed to
the land.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate from the Historic Preservation
Commission authorizing plans for alternations, construction, removal, or
demolition of a landmark or site within a designated historic district.
   COMMISSION. The village Historic Preservation  Commission (1890 Theme
Committee).
   COMMISSIONERS. Voting members of the Historic Preservation Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of adding an addition to an existing structure or the
erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a landmark
or site within the historic district.
   DESIGN GUIDELINES. A standard description or illustration of acceptable
construction intended to preserve the historic and architectural character of a
structure or area.
   DEVELOPMENT SERVICE DEPARTMENT. A department at the Village of Frankfort
that consists of planning, zoning, economic development, code compliance,
permitting, inspections, and engineering.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE. The general architectural composition of
the exterior of a structure including, but not limited to the type, color, and
the texture of the construction material and the type, design, and character of
all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and appurtenant elements.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. Major features that make a building notable
or historically identifiable and contribute to the overall visual
characteristic of the structure.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area designated as a HISTORIC DISTRICT by ordinance of
the Village Board which contains properties or structures of historic and/or
architectural significance that contribute to the overall visual
characteristics of the historic district and Village of Frankfort.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure or site that has been designated as a
LANDMARK by ordinance of the Village Board, due to its historic and/or
architectural significance to the village.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person, corporation, or other legal entity listed as
owner on the records of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a structure to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions and features of the structure that are
significant to its historic, or architectural heritage.
   RELOCATION. The process of moving a structure on its existing site or to
another site.
   REPAIR. Mending of an existing improvement which is not new construction,
relocation or alteration.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on or in the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on or in the ground.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE. Any change or repair in the supporting members of a
building, structure, roof or exterior walls which would expand the building in
height, width, or bulk of the building.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 154.10 COMPOSITION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of five voting members,
who are residents of the village, appointed by the Mayor, and approved by the
Village Board.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.11 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members must have a demonstrated interest, knowledge and/or expertise in
historic preservation. Members may be selected from professions such as
architectural history, building construction, or engineering, finance,
historical and architectural preservation, neighborhood organizing or real
estate.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.12 TERMS.
   Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of three years. Of
those members first taking office, one shall be appointed for one year, two for
two years, and two for three years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term only. Members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.13 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers shall consist of a chair, vice chair, and a secretary elected
by the Historic Preservation Commission who shall each serve a term of one year
and shall be eligible for reelection. The chair shall preside over meetings. In
the absence of the chair, the vice-chair shall perform the duties of the chair.
If both are absent, a temporary chairman shall be elected by those present.
   (B)   The secretary to the Preservation Commission shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   Take minutes of each Commission meeting;
      (2)   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the Preservation Commission to the members
of the Preservation Commission;
      (3)   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the Preservation Commission;
      (4)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Commission and expiring terms
of members; and;
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the Village Board a complete record of the
proceedings before the Commission on any matter requiring Village Board
consideration or action.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.14 MEETINGS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions or
actions of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be made by a majority
vote of those members present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists.
Meetings shall be held at regular scheduled times to be established by the
Commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any time upon the
Commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any time upon the call
of the Chairman provided proper public notice is given per the Open Meetings
Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120). There shall be a minimum of four meetings per year.
   (B)   No member of the Historic Preservation Commission shall vote on any
matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the Commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of a property in its
use, modification, maintenance, disposition, or demolition until such owner
shall first have had the opportunity to be heard at public meetings of the
Historic Preservation Commission, as provided herein. The Chair, and in their
absence the acting Chair, may administer oaths of witnesses in attendance. All
meetings of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be open to the public
and in accordance with the Open Meetings Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120). The
Historic Preservation Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.15 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
   (B)   To periodically conduct a survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures, and areas;
   (C)   To investigate and recommend to the Village Board the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community, or architectural value as “landmarks;”
   (D)   To investigate and recommend to the Village Board the adoption of
ordinances designating areas as having special historic, community, or
architectural value as “historic districts;”
   (E)   To keep a register of all properties and structures that have been
designated as landmarks or historic districts, including all information
required for each designation;
   (F)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make recommendations
for the design and implementation of specific markings of the streets and
routes leading from one landmark or historic district to another;
   (G)   To advise owners of landmarks and property or structures within
historic districts on physical and financial aspects of preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation, and reuse, and on procedures for inclusion on the
State or National Register of Historic Places;
   (H)   To inform and educate the citizens of the village concerning the
historic and architectural heritage of the village by publishing and holding
programs and seminars;
   (I)   To hold public meetings and public hearings, as the case may be, to
review applications for construction, alteration, relocation, or demolition
effecting proposed or designated landmarks or structures or historic districts
and issue or deny certificates of appropriateness for such actions;
   (J)   To develop specific guidelines for the alteration, demolition,
construction, or removal of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts;
   (K)   To review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and historic
districts. Such review shall be made prior to the date of the hearing by the
Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals to the extent reasonably
practical;
   (L)   To administer on behalf of the village any property of full or partial
interest in real property, including a conservation right as that term is used
in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, which the village may have or accept as a
gift or otherwise, upon designation and acceptance by the Village Board;
   (M) To accept and administer on behalf of the village upon designation and
acceptance by the Village Board, such gifts, grants and money as may be
appropriate for the purpose of this chapter;
   (N)   To call upon available village staff members, as well as other
experts, for technical advice provided no unbudgeted expenses are incurred;
   (O)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the Planning
Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant property or landmarks; and
   (P)   To periodically review the zoning chapter and to recommend to the
Planning Commission and the Village Board any amendments appropriate for the
protection and continued use of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.16 SURVEYS AND RESEARCH.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall undertake an ongoing survey
and research effort in the village to identify neighborhoods, areas, sites,
structures, and objects that have historic, community, architectural or
aesthetic importance, interest or value. As part of the survey, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall review and evaluate any prior surveys and studies
by any unit of government or private organization and compile appropriate
descriptions, facts and photographs.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall identify potential
landmarks and adopt procedures to nominate them in groups based upon the
following criteria:
      (1)   The potential landmarks in one identifiable neighborhood, district,
or geographical area of the village;
      (2)   The potential landmarks associated with a particular person, event,
or historical period;
      (3)   The potential landmarks of a particular architectural style or
school, or of a particular architect, engineer, builder, designer, or
craftsman;
      (4)   Potential landmarks adhering to such other criteria as may
reasonably be adopted by the Historic Preservation Commission to assure
systematic survey and nomination of all potential landmarks within the village.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION
§ 154.30 CRITERIA FOR LANDMARK DESIGNATION.
   The Commission shall, upon investigation as is deems necessary, make a
determination as to whether a property, structure, or area possesses the
integrity of design, workmanship, materials, location, setting and feeling and
meets one or more of the following criteria:
   (A)   Significant value as part of the historic, heritage or cultural
characteristics of the community, county, state or nation.
   (B)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state or country.
   (C)   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of architecture
inherently valuable for the study of a period, type, method of construction or
use of indigenous materials.
   (D)   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect or artist whose
individual work has influenced the development of the community, county, state
or country.
   (E)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics that make it
an established or familiar visual feature.
   (F)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including, but not limited to, farmhouses, historic
commercial buildings, gas stations, or other commercial; structures, with a
high level of integrity or architectural significance.
   (G)   Area that has yielded or may be likely to yield, information important
in history or prehistory.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.31 LANDMARK DESIGNATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applications for landmark designation. The application shall be
submitted to the Development Services Department, and shall at the minimum
include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner and documentation
establishing proof of ownership. Documentation of ownership shall include a
copy of the recorded deed, commitment for title insurance, or other evidence of
ownership deemed acceptable by the Village Attorney.
      (2)   The legal description and common street address of the property.
      (3)   A written statement describing the property and setting forth the
basis of the proposed designation.
      (4)   Documentation that the property owner(s) were notified of the
requested landmark designation via certified mail.
      (5)   Written consent of the owner(s) of record of the nominated
structure, building, or object. In the event legal and equitable title is held
by separate parties, written consent of each shall be required. In the event
owner(s) consent is not provided a supermajority vote (75%) shall be required
for approval in accordance with division (C)(4) below.
      (6)   A list of significant exterior architectural features that should
be protected.
      (7)   An overall site plan or aerial photograph of the property.
      (8)   Photographs of the proposed landmark and exterior features intended
for preservation. Front, side, and rear elevation drawings shall be provided if
available, or deemed necessary.
      (9)   A declaration signed by the owner(s) of record of the nominated
structure, building, or object setting forth, at a minimum, an intent to
further promote and preserve the historic appearance and character of property
affected by such designation and an agreement to be subject to and bound by the
provisions of the "Certificate of Appropriateness" subchapter of this chapter,
including any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Landmark designation procedures.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons or association, including, but not
limited to the Frankfort Historic Preservation Commission, may nominate a
Historic Landmark designation for any structure, building or site within the
boundaries of the Village of Frankfort which may have historic or architectural
significance as defined by this chapter.. The Development Services Department
shall supply, upon request, the application forms. Completed forms shall be
submitted to the Development Services Department which shall be forwarded to
the Commission for their consideration.
      (2)   The Development Services Department shall notify the secretary of
the Historic Preservation Commission of complete applications within 15 days of
their filing. After such notice the secretary of the Historic Preservation
Commission shall schedule a public hearing, to be held within 60 days.
      (3)   Notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well as
to the adjoining property owners within 250 feet of the subject property, not
less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing. Public
notice shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
village. The notice shall state the location of the property and a statement
identifying the criteria upon which the nomination is based as set forth in
this chapter.
      (4)   During the public hearing, the Commission shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by ordinance.
      (5)   A Certificate of Appropriateness shall be required for alteration,
construction, relocation or demolition of a proposed landmark from the date
when the nomination form is presented to the Commission until the final
disposition of the request.
   (C)   Deliberations and decisions.
      (1)   Following the close of the public hearing, the Secretary of the
Historic Preservation Commission shall prepare the Commission's evaluation,
recommendation and all available information for submission to the Village
Board within 30 days.
      (2)   If the Commission decides that the landmark should be designated,
it shall do so by forwarding a recommendation for approval, passed by a
majority of the Commission, to the Village Board for consideration.
      (3)   The nomination process shall end if:
         (a)   The Historic Preservation Commission fails to make a
recommendation at or within 15 days of the close of the public hearing; or
         (b)   The Historic Preservation Commission finds that the nominated
landmark does not meet the criteria for designation.
      (4)   A simple majority vote by the Village Board is necessary for
approval of a landmark designation, however, in the event that owner(s) consent
is not provided a supermajority vote (75%) shall be required. If the Village
Board approves the application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the
property owner, the Development Services Department, the Building Inspector,
the Village Clerk's office and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds. If
the Village Board denies the petition, the Historic Preservation Commission may
not reconsider a proposed landmark designation for a period of one year from
the close of the public hearing. Reconsideration shall be permitted within the
one year period if significant new information concerning the previously
nominated landmark relating to the criteria for designation is provided.
      (5)   The Development Services Department shall notify the owner(s) of
record by a certified letter containing information of the Village Board's
decision.
      (6)   Buildings designated as Historic Landmarks shall be subject to
issuance of Certificates of Appropriateness.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.32 CRITERIA FOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   The following criteria shall be used by the Historic Preservation Commission
in determining the designation of Historic Districts:
   (A)   The Historic District contains one or more landmarks along with other
such buildings, places or areas within its definable geographic boundaries,
which, while not of such historic significance to be designated as landmarks,
nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the landmark
or landmarks located in such District.
   (B)   A significant number of structures meeting any of the standards of §
154.31(B).
   (C)   Establishing a sense of time and place unique to the Village of
Frankfort, and/or
   (D)   Exemplifying or reflecting the cultural, social, economic, political
or architectural history of the nation, the state or the village.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.33 HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications for Historic District designation. Applications shall be
filed at the Development Services Department on a form provided by the
Development Services Department. Persons wishing guidance or advice prior to
completing an application may contact Development Services Department staff or
members of the Historic Preservation Commission. Applications shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name(s) and address(es) of the property owner(s).
      (2)   A map delineating the boundaries of the area to be designated.
      (3)   A written statement describing the area and properties within the
proposed Historic District and setting forth the basis of the proposed
designation.
      (4)   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features of all properties in the district that should be protected.
      (5)   Documentation that all property owner(s) were notified of the
proposed historic district designation via certified mail.
      (6)   Written consent of at least 51% of the owner(s) of record of within
the proposed historic district. In the event legal and equitable title is held
by separate parties, written consent of each shall be required. In the event
the consent of at least 51% of the owner(s) owner(s) is not provided a
supermajority vote (75%) shall be required for approval in accordance with
division (C)(4) below.
      (7)   A declaration signed by at least 51% of the owner(s) of record of
within the proposed historic district setting forth, at a minimum, an intent to
further promote and preserve the historic appearance and character of property
affected by such designation and an agreement to be subject to and bound by the
provisions of the "Certificate of Appropriateness" subchapter of this chapter,
including any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Historic District designation procedures.
      (1)   Any persons, group of persons, or association, including, but not
limited to, the Historic Preservation Commission, may present to the Historic
Preservation Commission an application requesting that a defined geographic
area be designated as an Historic District. The Village Development Services
Department shall supply, upon request, the application forms. Completed forms
shall be submitted to the Development Services Department which shall forward
them to the Historic Preservation Commission for their consideration.
      (2)   The Development Services Department shall notify the secretary of
the Historic Preservation Commission of complete applications within 15 days of
their filing. After such notice the secretary of the Historic Preservation
Commission shall schedule a public hearing, to be held within 60 days.
      (3)   Notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well as
to the adjoining property owners within 250' of the subject property, not less
than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing. Public notice
shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the Village of
Frankfort. The notice shall state the location of the property and a statement
identifying the criteria upon which the nomination is based as set forth in
this chapter.
      (4)   During the public hearing, the Commission shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by this chapter.
   (C)   Deliberations and decisions.
      (1)   Following the close of the public hearing, the Secretary of the
Historic Preservation Commission shall prepare the Commission's evaluation,
recommendation and all available information for submission to the Village
Board within 30 days.
      (2)   If the Commission decides that the proposed Historic District
should be designated, it shall do so by forwarding a recommendation for
approval, passed by a majority of the Commission, to the Village Board for
Consideration.
      (3)   The nomination process shall end if:
         (a)   The Historic Preservation Commission fails to make a
recommendation at or within 15 days of the close of the public hearing; or
         (b)   The Historic Preservation Commission finds that the nominated
area does not meet the criteria for designation.
      (4)   A simple majority vote by the Village Board is necessary for
approval of a historic preservation designation. If the Village Board approves
the application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner,
the Development Services Department, the Building Inspector, the Village
Clerk's office and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds that the area has
been designated as such and that building located within the boundaries of the
Historic District shall be subject to issuance of Certificates of
Appropriateness. If the Village Board denies the petition, the Historic
Preservation Commission may not reconsider a proposed historic district
designation for a period of one year from the close of the public hearing.
Reconsideration shall be permitted within the one year period if significant
new information concerning the previously nominated historic district relating
to the criteria for designation is provided.
      (5)   The Development Services Department shall notify the owner(s) of
record by a certified letter containing information of the Village Board's
decision.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
§ 154.40 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A Certificate of Appropriateness issued by the Commission shall be
required before a building permit, relocation or demolition permit is issued
for any designated Historic Landmark or any building, structure or a site or
part thereof in the Historic District. A Certificate of Appropriateness is
required if the building, structure or site will be altered, extended, or
repaired in such a manner as to produce major change in the exterior appearance
of such building or structure.
   (B)   Such major changes include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Major changes by addition, alteration, maintenance, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, renovation or repair;
      (2)   Any new construction and demolition in whole or in part requiring a
permit from the village;
      (3)   Relocation of a building.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.41 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   An exception to the Certificate of Appropriateness shall be made if
the applicant shows to the Commission that a failure to grant the permit will
cause an imminent threat to life, health, or property.
   (B)   Any projects deemed a minor project, or as minor changes to a
structure as determined by staff, are not required to obtain Certificate of
Appropriateness, but will require approval by the Director of the Development
Services Department.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.42 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every application for a demolition permit or a building permit,
including plans and specifications shall be forwarded by the Development
Services Department to the Historic Preservation Commission within 15 days
following receipt of the complete application.
   (B)   The application for issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness must
include:
      (1)   Street address of the property involved;
      (2)   Legal description of the property involved;
      (3)   Brief description of the present improvements situated on the
property;
      (4)   A detailed description of the construction, alteration, demolition
or use proposed together with any architect drawings or sketches if those
services have been utilized by the applicant and if not, a sufficient
description of the construction, alteration, demolition, and use to enable
anyone to determine what the final appearance and use of the real estate will
be;
      (5)   Owner’s name;
      (6)   Developer’s name, if different than owner;
      (7)   Architect’s name.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.43 STANDARDS FOR DETERMINATION.
   The standards in making a determination whether to approve or deny an
application for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (A)   A reasonable effort should be made to provide a compatible use for
buildings which will require minimum alteration to the building, structure or
site and its environment or to use a property for its originally intended
purpose;
   (B)   The compatibility of proposed new additions or new construction to the
original architecture of the landmark or styles within the historic district
shall be evaluated against the following guidelines:
      (1)   The height of the proposed structure or additions or alterations
should be compatible with surrounding structures;
      (2)   The proportion of the front facade, that is, the relationship
between the width of the building to the height of the front elevation;
      (3)   The relationship of building mass to the open space between it and
adjoining buildings or structures;
      (4)   The directional expression of a building or structure, that is, the
vertical or horizontal positioning;
      (5)   The roof shape;
      (6)   Architectural details, general design, materials, textures and
colors; and
      (7)   Landscape and appurtenances including signs, fences, accessory
structures and pavings.
   (C)   Deteriorated architectural features should be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event that replacement is necessary, the
new material should closely match the material being replaced in composition,
design, color, texture, and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of
missing architectural features should be based on accurate duplication of
features, substantiated by historic, physical, or pictorial evidence, rather
than on conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural
elements from other buildings or structures.
   (D)   All buildings should be recognized as products of their own time.
Alterations to create an appearance inconsistent with the actual character of
the building should be discouraged.
   (E)   Many changes to building and environments which have taken place in
the course of time may distinguish the history of the building and the
neighborhood. Such changes should be recognized and respected.
   (F)   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to buildings should be
done in such a manner that if they were to be removed in the future, the
essential form and integrity of the original building would be unimpaired.
   (G)   Contemporary design for new buildings in a historic district and
additions to existing buildings or landscaping should not be discouraged if
such design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material, and character
of the district, building, or its environment.
   (H)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure, or site and its environment, shall not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural feature should
be avoided when possible.
   (I)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure, or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
   (J)   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage or deface the historic building materials shall not be undertaken.
   (K)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archaeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.44 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Applications for a Certificate of Appropriateness are available from the
Development Services Department. Such applications shall be completed and
submitted to the Development Services Department, which shall be forwarded to
the Historic Preservation Commission. The Commission shall schedule a public
meeting for consideration of the application within 15 days of its receipt
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.45 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the application, the Commission shall direct the
Development Services Department to issue signed Certificates of Appropriateness
to the applicant with copies forwarded to the Building Inspector.
   (B)   A Certificate of Appropriateness shall be invalid if changes in the
plans reviewed by the Commission are necessary in obtaining a building permit,
or if the building permit issued for the same work becomes invalid. The
Certificate of Appropriateness remains valid for the same period of validity as
the building permit.
   (C)   If the Commission’s decision is to postpone the issuance of
Certificate of Appropriateness for demolition or removal, the Commission shall
notify the owner in writing. During the period set forth for postponement of
the requested action, the Commission shall explore alternatives to demolition
or removal. Such alternatives may include consultation with private civic
groups, interested private citizens and other public boards or agencies in an
effort to find a persuasive means of preserving the structure. If sale of
property is considered a feasible alternative to the owner, the building must
remain on the open market, dependent on its classification, for the following
lengths of time:
      (1)   Designated landmarks: six months;
      (2)   Historic and architecturally significant building in historic
district: six months;
      (3)   Non-significant buildings located within historic district: three
months.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.46 APPEALS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   In the event of denial of an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness, the Commission shall notify the applicant in writing of the
disapproval and the reasons therefore and shall recommend changes, if any, in
the proposed action that would cause the Commission to reconsider its denial.
   (B)   Within 15 days of receipt of the notification of disapproval, the
applicant may resubmit an amended application that takes into consideration the
recommendations of the Historic Preservation Commission. The application shall
be considered to be withdrawn if no written modification is received. Within 15
days of receipt of a written modification, the Commission must hold a public
meeting to review the merit of the appeal.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.47 FINDINGS ON APPEAL.
   In the event of a denial of an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Village Board,
whose decision in this matter shall be final, subject only to judicial review
as provided by law.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
§ 154.48 NATURAL DESTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   In the case of partial or complete natural destruction or demolition
of a site within a Historic Preservation District or of a landmark, the owner
will be required to obtain a Certificate of Appropriateness from the Commission
prior to reconstruction.
   (B)   Although exact duplication of the previous structure may not be
required, the exterior design of the property shall be in harmony with:
      (1)   The exterior design of the structure prior to damage.
      (2)   The character of the Historic Preservation District.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
VALET PARKING SERVICES
§ 154.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish requirements for the
operation of valet parking services for businesses located in the Historic
District of the village. Since most all businesses located in the Historic
District have limited or no off-street parking, valet parking is an additional
means to meet the parking needs of commercial establishments.
(Ord. 1562, passed 3-18-96)
§ 154.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VALET PARKING OPERATOR. A person who employs one or more attendants for the
purpose of providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services,
but not in the capacity of employee, to any business establishment, for the
purpose of providing a valet parking service to such establishment.
   VALET PARKING SERVICE. A parking service provided to accommodate patrons of
any business establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the
establishment, and by which an attendant on behalf of the establishment takes
temporary custody of the patrons’ motor vehicle and moves, parks, stores or
retrieves the vehicle for the patrons’ convenience.
(Ord. 1562, passed 3-18-96)
§ 154.62 APPLICATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
154.63, no person shall conduct a valet parking service unless he has a valid
valet parking operator license issued in accordance with this subchapter. A
separate license is required for each loading area served.
   (B)   Applications for valet parking operator licenses shall be made to the
village. Each valet parking operator license issued shall be for a one-year
period only, and shall have designated thereon the name and address of the
licensee and the business establishment to be served by the licensee. No fee
required.
   (C)   Applications for the renewal of a valet parking operator license shall
be made to the village not less than 60 days prior to the expiration of the
license to be renewed. The fee for a renewal shall be the same as for a new
license.
   (D)   Valet parking operator licenses shall be nontransferable, and any
attempt to transfer a license shall result automatically in the immediate
expiration of the license.
(Ord. 1562, passed 3-18-96) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.63 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No valet parking operator license, or renewal thereof, shall be issued
unless the applicant agrees to park all cars entrusted to him in legal off-
street sites acceptable to the village.
   (B)   No valet parking operator license, or renewal thereof, shall be issued
unless the applicant provides proof to the village that he has obtained
liability insurance covering all locations at which he operates or seeks to
operate in the minimum amounts of $1,000,000 per occurrence for public
liability, and $500,000 per occurrence for property damage. The insurance
policy shall be for a term at least coextensive with the duration of the
license and shall not be subject to cancellation except upon 30 days’ prior
notice to the village. The insurance policy shall name the village as a joint
insured. Upon termination or lapse of the licensee’s insurance coverage, any
license issued to him shall automatically expire.
   (C)   No valet parking operator license, or renewal thereof, shall be issued
unless the applicant provides proof to the village that the business
establishment for which the valet parking service is to be provided has made
available a loading zone at least 25 feet in length immediately adjacent to its
premises for the pickup and delivery of the patrons’ vehicles. Where the
loading zone is to be on-street, the business establishment shall submit a plan
designating an area for such use. The valet parking operator will not be
allowed to stack vehicles into public throughways or otherwise impair traffic
flow on-street. No license shall be issued for the operation of a valet parking
service at that establishment until the designation of the curb loading zone,
with proper signage, has been approved.
   (D)   No valet parking operator license, or renewal thereof, shall be issued
to any applicant who has been found in violation of any provision of this
subchapter two or more times within the 180-day period prior to the date of the
application or three or more times within the 365-day period prior to the date
of the application.
   (E)   A maximum of two valet parking signs shall be posted by the operator
to designate the loading zone. The signs shall be posted only during the hours
valet parking services are being provided and shall be removed at all other
times. All signage shall conform to village ordinances.
   (F)   Every valet parking operator shall have a valid driver’s license and
insurance. The valet parking operator shall place or cause his agent to place
on the dashboard of each patron vehicle a sign or placard of a size no smaller
than 8½ inches by 11 inches in such a manner so as to be conspicuously visible
through the windshield of the patron vehicle. The sign or placard shall contain
the following information in red or black letters no less than one inch high:
“This Vehicle Parked By (valet parking operator) For Customer Of (business
establishment).” In addition, each attendant of a valet parking operator shall,
while on duty, wear conspicuously placed on his clothing an insignia which
identifies the valet parking operator for whom the attendant is working.
   (G)   All valet parking attendants must, upon taking custody of a patron’s
vehicle, issue a numbered receipt to each customer containing the name, address
and telephone number of the company providing the valet service.
   (H)   The valet parking operator shall hold the village harmless and
indemnify it from any liability.
(Ord. 1562, passed 3-18-96) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who undertakes or causes an alteration, construction,
demolition, or removal of any nominated or designated landmark or property
within a nominated or designated landmark or designated historic district
without a Certificate of Appropriateness shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $500. Every day such violation shall continue to
exist shall constitute a separate violation. The village may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to enjoin, correct or abate any violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1454, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 3261, passed
9-21-20)
   (B)   Violation of any provisions of §§
154.60 through
154.63 or any of the codes adopted herein as codes established for the village
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each
offense and that each day that violation of §§
154.60 through
154.63 exists shall be considered a separate offense. In addition to the
foregoing, the village shall have all other remedies available to it either in
law or jury. (Ord. 1562, passed 3-18-96)
(Am. Ord. 1943, passed 12-2-02)
APPENDIX A: MAP OF HISTORICAL DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
To view Appendix A in PDF, please click HERE.
CHAPTER 155: LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The village subdivision regulations adopted by Ordinance 921, passed August
2, 1976 and as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated as a part of this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 921, passed 8-2-76; Am. Ord. 1314, passed 8-6-90; Am. Ord. 1721, passed
12-21-98; Am. Ord. 1729, passed 1-4-99; Am. Ord. 1820, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord.
1945, passed 12-16-02; Am. Ord. 2091, passed 7-6-04; Am. Ord. 2295, passed 6-
19-06; Am. Ord. 2392, passed 6-18-07)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference
§ 156.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The village zoning ordinance adopted by Ordinance 1872, passed September 17,
2001, and as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated as a part of this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 1872, passed 9-17-01; Am. Ord. 1887, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 1888,
passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 2174, passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2230, passed 10-17-05;
Am. Ord. 2240, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 2247, passed 12-5-05; Am. Ord. 2312,
passed 8-21-06; Am. Ord. 2313, passed 8-21-06; Am. Ord. 2342, passed 12-18-06;
Am. Ord. 2360, passed 2-5-07; Am. Ord. 2432, passed 12-17-07; Am. Ord. 2495,
passed 8-4-08; Am. Ord. 2550, passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 2626, passed 11-16-09;
Am. Ord. 2643, passed 3-15-10; Am. Ord. 2780, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 2839,
passed 4-29-13; Am. Ord. 2894, passed 2-3-14; Am. Ord. 2904, passed 5-5-14; Am.
Ord. 2957, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 3041, passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord. 3229, passed
10-7-19; Am. Ord. 3230, passed 10-7-19; Am. Ord. 3318, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord.
3328, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 3346, passed 2-22-22; Am. Ord. 3348, passed 3-
7-22; Am. Ord. 3349, passed 3-7-22; Am. Ord. 3439, passed 2-20-24; Am. Ord.
3445, passed 4-8-24)
CHAPTER 157: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
157.01   Adoption of the Comprehensive Plan
§ 157.01 ADOPTION OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Board of Trustees hereby finds that the facts stated in Ordinance 1556,
passed 2-20-96, are true and correct and hereby adopts the Village of Frankfort
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 1556, passed 2-20-96; Am. Ord. 2641, passed 3-2-10; Am. Ord. 3238, passed
12-16-19)
CHAPTER 158: LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Purpose
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Scope
   
158.04   Requirements of a landscape plan
   
158.05   Landscape material standards
   
158.06   Planting specifications
   
158.07   Tree preservation
Landscape Care
   
158.15   Landscape care guidelines
Design Methodology
   
158.25   Planting units
   
158.26   Single-family residential
   
158.27   Attached single-family residential
   
158.28   Commercial, office, and industrial uses
   
158.29   Stormwater retention/detention facilities
   
158.295   Naturalized landscape reporting, monitoring and acceptance standards
   
158.296   Prohibited activities within naturalized landscape areas
   
158.30   Parking lots and vehicular use areas
   
158.31   Parkway/public tree planting and care standards
Legal Applications
   158.44   Authority and power
   
158.45   Village Tree Advisory Board
   
158.46   Arborists license and bond
Prohibition Against Harming Public Trees
   158.90   Prohibition against harming public trees
 
   
158.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Overstory trees
   
Appendix B: Understory trees
   
Appendix C: Street trees
   
Appendix D: Evergreen trees
   
Appendix E: Preservation trees
   
Appendix F: Stormwater detention/retention trees
   
Appendix G: Unacceptable trees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve and promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public, and as part of the general welfare,
establish landscape requirements and guidelines for review of landscape
proposals for purposes of providing screening or transition buffer areas which
will promote compatibility among land uses, the planting of street trees and
stormwater detention/retention areas and other areas required by village
ordinance. These guidelines are established to enhance property values, to
ensure proper planting and care of trees on public property and promote
consistent review of landscape proposals resulting in higher quality design for
the village.
   (B)   The Village Board herein delegates the authority and responsibility
for managing public trees, establishes practices governing the planting and
care of trees on public property, and makes provisions for the emergency
removal of trees on private property under certain conditions.
   (C)   These regulations are intended to minimize the harmful or nuisance
effects resulting from noise, heat, glare, and accumulation of dust and provide
shade, air purification, oxygen regeneration, ground water recharge, storm
water runoff retardation and privacy from noise and visual intrusion of
objectionable sights and activities. This chapter also establishes a Village
Tree Advisory Board for purposes of enforcing these guidelines. This chapter
supersedes any language on landscaping contained in Ordinance No. 919,
Frankfort Bicentennial Zoning Ordinance, Ordinance No. 921, the Land
Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3477,
passed 11-18-24)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP).  
      (1)   A design or practice employed with the primary objective to
minimize adverse water quality impacts, preserve beneficial features on-site,
avoid downstream erosion and habitat loss, maintain natural base flows and
groundwater recharge, prevent increases to downstream flooding, provide
multiple uses of drainage and storm water drainage facilities, and/or provide
for the economical, safe and aesthetically pleasing drainage system for
development.
      (2)   BMP methods have been published by the Northeastern Illinois
Planning Commission (NIPC) under the following titles: "Designing Stormwater
BMP in Northeastern Illinois," "Urban Stormwater BMP for Northeastern
Illinois," "Restoring and Managing Stream Greenways: A Landowners Handbook,"
Chicago Wilderness "Biodiversity Recovery Plan," and Village of Frankfort
"Water Resource Management Plan." These, as well as other sources, are
recognized BMP which should be considered in the design of a stormwater
management system.
   BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views, and/or decrease noise.
   BUFFER. A combination of physical space and vertical elements, such as
plants, berms, fences, or walls, the purpose of which is to separate and screen
incompatible land uses from each other.
   CALIPER. A circumferential measurement of a tree's trunk recorded six inches
above grade for those trees having a caliper of four inches or less, and 12
inches above grade for those trees with a caliper of above four inches.
   DAMAGE. Any injury to or destruction of a tree, including but not limited
to: uprooting; severance of all or part of the root system or main truck;
storage of material on or compaction of surrounding soil; a substantial change
in the natural grade above a root system or around a trunk; surrounding the
tree with impervious paving materials; or any trauma caused by accident or
collision.
   DECIDUOUS. A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot abutting two parallel streets, or two streets
which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]
 
   EASEMENT. The right to use a designated part of property owned by another
party for a specified purpose.
   EVERGREEN. A plant with foliage that persists and remains green year-round.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. An area which consists of living landscape material.
   LIVING LANDSCAPE. Low growing woody or herbaceous ground cover, turf,
shrubs, and trees.
   NATURALIZED LANDSCAPE. Ecologically sensitive landscaping that uses
regionally native plant species to create, improve or restore specialized and
self-sustaining plant communities (prairie, woodland, etc.)
   NUISANCE. Any tree, or limb thereof, that has an infectious disease or
insect; is dead or dying; obstructs the view of traffic signs or the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or threatens public health, safety, and
welfare.
   OVERSTORY TREE. A self-supporting woody plant having at least one well-
defined stem or trunk and normally attaining a mature height and spread of at
least 30 feet, and having a trunk that may at maturity, be kept clear of leaves
and branches at least eight feet above grade.
   PARKWAY. That portion of village owned property or rights-of-way between the
curb line, shoulder line, traveled portion of the roadway or alley and the
private property line.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All grounds and rights-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained by
the village.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree or woody vegetation on village-owned or village-
maintained property or rights-of-way.
   SCREEN. An area of planting which provides an effective visual barrier.
   TOP OR TOPPING. The non-standard practice of cutting back of limbs to stubs
within a tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree.
   TRANSITION YARD. That portion of yard that separates two incompatible uses.
   UNDERSTORY TREE. A self-supporting woody plant having at least one well-
defined stem or trunk and normally attaining a mature height and spread of less
than 30 feet with branching less than eight feet above grade.
   VEHICULAR USE AREAS. All areas subject to vehicular traffic including, but
not limited to, access ways, driveways, loading areas, service areas, and
parking stalls for all types of vehicles. This definition shall not apply to
covered parking structures or underground parking lots.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3477,
passed 11-18-24)
§ 158.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development
occurring after the effective date of this chapter and any development which
has not yet received final plat approval.
   (B)   Whenever an existing use or structure on a lot is expanded, the
development shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter provided that
the expansion exceeds 25% of either the gross floor area or lot area of the
existing development or where the cost of improvements exceeds the value of
existing structure by 50%. Existing value shall be determined by the value of
the building as stated in the most recent tax bill as provided by the owner.
The owner shall also provide the estimated costs of improvement.
   (C)   For any conforming or legally nonconforming building or use which is
in existence on the effective date of this chapter which subsequent thereto is
damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, and which is
reconstructed, reestablished or repaired at a cost that exceeds 50% of the
value of the building or use, landscaping shall be provided as required by this
chapter for equivalent new use or construction.
   (D)   All landscaping as required in this chapter shall supersede all other
landscaping requirements contained within the village code.
   (E)   All requirements in this chapter are minimum requirements. Provision
of landscaping in excess of these requirements is encouraged and may be
required when necessary to achieve the purpose of these regulations.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06)
§ 158.04 REQUIREMENTS OF A LANDSCAPE PLAN.
   (A)   Landscape plans. Landscape plans shall be required as part of each of
the following development scenarios:
      (1)   Single-family detached residential developments of seven or more
units (single-family detached residential developments of six or less units are
not required to submit landscape plans, however they must still comply with all
regulations as described herein. This exemption does not apply to required
landscape plans for detention ponds, as outlined in §
158.29);
      (2)   Single-family attached residential developments;
      (3)   Commercial, industrial or public purpose development;
      (4)   Any modification to existing structures (except single-family
detached structures) that either increase the footprint by 25%, or where the
cost of improvements exceed the value of the existing structure by 50%.
Existing value shall be determined by the value of the building or stated in
most recent tax bill as provided by the owner. The owner shall provide the
estimated costs of improvements.
      (5)   Double frontage lots.
   (B)   Components of a landscape plan. Landscape plans shall include the
following:
      (1)   North point and scale.
      (2)   Topographic information and proposed grades.
      (3)   Proposed structures and pavement.
      (4)   Existing utilities, above and or below ground.
      (5)   Location, type, size, quantity and planting condition (balled and
burlapped, bare root, etc.) of all proposed landscape materials.
      (6)   Common and botanical scientific names of all proposed plant
material.
      (7)   Location, size and common/botanical names of existing vegetation
that is to remain. (As required under §
158.07.)
      (8)   Identification of vegetation proposed to be removed. (As required
under §
158.07.)
      (9)   Symbols representing proposed plant material shall be drawn to
scale showing two-thirds of full mature size and labeled as to quantity and
type.
      (10)   Location of underground irrigation system, if any.
      (11)   Location of drain tiles, downspouts and sump pump discharge.
      (12)   Planting schedule.
      (13)   Stormwater retention/detention pond improvement plan(s) (refer to
§
158.29).
   (C)   Revisions.
      (1)   Once a landscape plan has been approved and a building permit
issued, the village staff may authorize minor revisions to the approved
landscape plan including the substitution of equivalent plantings and ground
covers where such revisions do not diminish the benefits of the approved
landscape plan.
      (2)   A revision shall be considered minor where there is no reduction in
the quality of plant material, no significant change in size or location of
plant material, and new plants are of the same general category (overstory,
ornamental, evergreen, etc.) and have the same general design characteristics
(mature size, spread, density) as the materials being replaced.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.05 LANDSCAPE MATERIAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All plant material shall comply with the provisions set forth by the
American Standard for Nursery Stock, ANSI (most recent edition) (http://
www.anla.ord/).
   (B)   Plant material used in conformance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be selected to provide:
      (1)   Climate hardiness of plant material.
      (2)   High disease resistance and stress tolerance.
      (3)   Adaptability of proposed plant material to the particular
microclimate (sun, shade, dry or wet soils, etc.) in which it is to be located.
      (4)   Inclusion of native plant material where appropriate.
      (5)   Select plants for drought tolerance.
      (6)   Overall year round ornamental effect.
      (7)   Conformance with Best Management Practices (BMPs).
   (C)   Plant material shall be healthy, free of insects and diseases,
physical damage (bark bruises, cracked branches, scrapes, etc.), and exhibit a
straight central leader when applicable.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specified, minimum size requirements for plant
materials at time of planting are as follows:
      (1)   Overstory trees: 2.5" caliper and 6' clear of branches.
      (2)   Understory and ornamental trees:
         (a)   Single trunk – 2" caliper;
         (b)   Multi trunk – 6' height.
      (3)   Evergreen trees: 6' height.
      (4)   Large shrubs: 36" height
      (5)   Small shrubs: 18" – 24" height.
   (E)   The caliper of the trunk shall be measured six inches above the ground
for plants with calipers of four inch or less and 12 inches above the ground
for larger sizes.
   (F)   The use of stone, rock, or gravel as a ground cover is discouraged
unless used as a decorative accent or as part of an appropriate landscape
concept.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.06 PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Planting pits shall be one and one-half times as deep and three times
as wide as the root ball. Planting procedures should follow the most current
Northern Illinois Tree Specification. Native soil should be used for backfill
whenever possible.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.jpg]
 
   (B)   Trees and shrubs located in a planting bed shall be mulched with a
minimum of three inches of shredded hardwood bark, wood chips or other organic
mulch. All flower and groundcover beds shall be mulched with a minimum one and
one-half to two inch depth shredded hardwood bark, wood chips or other organic
mulch.
   (C)   The lower trunk of new trees shall be wrapped with burlap or paper to
prevent evaporation and sunscald. The wrapping should remain on the tree for at
least one year. Newly planted trees should be sprayed with an antidesiccant
prior to site delivery and immediately after installation to prevent excessive
moisture loss.
   (D)   Soil used in planter boxes, urban tree grates or similar areas should
have a soil composition of 45%-77% silt, 0%-25% clay, 25%-33% sand, a soil
acidity of pH 6.0 to 7.0, no more than 3% to 5% organic material, and a minimum
depth of three feet.
   (E)   Local ecotypes should be preserved. Therefore, all native seed and
plant stock should be obtained from sources within a 150-mile radius of the
village. Vendors from beyond that radius may supply the native seed and/or
plants, but they must demonstrate the materials come from local genetic stock.
   (F)   Planting of garlic mustard, reed canarygrass, purple loosestrife,
common reed, and buckthorn is prohibited, as is installation of any noxious
weed as defined by the Illinois Administrative Code or by the village.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.07 TREE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to establish regulations
limiting the removal and ensuring the replacement of trees from public and
private property within the village and, in doing so, safeguard the ecological
and aesthetic environment of the community. These regulations are further
intended to dissuade the unnecessary clearing and disturbance of land so as to
preserve, insofar as practical, the existing natural vegetation with plant
material indigenous to the region, and preserve landscape buffers to minimize
the impact of adjoining conflicting land uses, enhance and protect the
integrity of roadway corridors, and reduce the surface heat and negative visual
impact of vehicular use areas.
   (B)   Scope. Tree preservation requirements shall apply to all development
as outlined in §
158.03.
   (C)   Tree survey.
      (1)   For the properties with existing vegetation in areas proposed for
development, a tree survey shall be submitted prior to issuance of building
permit indicating deciduous plant material that is greater than 20 feet in
height, or five inches in diameter measured six inches above the ground
(hereafter referred to as "surveyed deciduous trees") or evergreen trees
measuring five feet or more in vertical height (hereafter referred to as
"surveyed evergreen trees").
      (2)   The tree survey shall indicate the location, size, and species
(both scientific and common) of all surveyed deciduous and evergreen trees
measuring 20 feet in height or having a caliper of five inches measured six
inches above the ground, or all evergreen trees measuring five feet or more in
vertical height.
   (D)   Removal and replacement criteria.
      (1)   No existing surveyed deciduous or evergreen tree which has been
identified on the "Tree Preservation List" (Appendix E) shall be removed
without approval of village staff.
      (2)   Existing trees removed (with village approval) shall be replaced
according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Deciduous trees.
            1.   In the event a deciduous tree designated for preservation is
destroyed or removed, such trees shall be replaced with new trees at a rate of
one inch in caliper of replacement tree to each one inch in caliper of removed
tree.
            2.   In the event of a fraction of an inch, if the fraction is less
than one-half inch, it may be disregarded. If the fraction is one-half inch or
greater, it shall be counted as one inch.
         (b)   Evergreen trees. In the event an evergreen tree designated for
preservation is destroyed or removed, such tree shall be replaced with new
trees at a rate of one vertical foot for each one vertical foot of removed
tree.
      (3)   Trees normally required by this chapter may not be counted towards
the required caliper inches to mitigate preservation trees.
      (4)   Village staff shall approve the type of replacement tree to be
planted as selected from the approved "Overstory Tree List" (Appendix A). The
following minimum sizes are required for replacement trees:
         (a)   Deciduous trees. All replacement trees for deciduous trees shall
have a minimum caliper of two and one-half inches in diameter, as measured at
diameter breast height (DBH) above the ground. Any combination of tree sizes
equaling two and one-half inches in diameter or larger, may be used for tree
replacement; i.e., one 24 inch tree equals two 6-inch and four 3-inch tree
replacements or eight 3-inch replacements.
         (b)   Evergreen trees. All replacement trees for evergreen trees shall
be a minimum height of six vertical feet. Any combination of tree sizes six
feet in height or greater may be used as tree replacements.
      (5)   Village staff may vary the number of replacement trees required
depending on the desirability of the existing trees.
      (6)   For those areas of significant vegetation (50% or greater
contiguous lot coverage by existing vegetation and/or identified by village
personnel), lots shall be reviewed on an individual basis. Impact on existing
vegetation will be minimized on a cost effective basis. Emphasis will be placed
on maintaining contiguous plantings, and keeping disruption confined to the
perimeter as much as possible.
      (7)   (a)   All required replacement trees shall be planted on the site
from which the trees were removed. Relief from any portion or all of the on-
site tree replacement requirement may be granted by the code official. Relief
shall be based upon practical physical difficulties and/or undue hardships
related to conditions of the site.
         (b)   Where specific unique site conditions render complete
replacement impractical, cash-in-lieu of replacement trees may be accepted by
the village. The contribution in lieu of planting replacement trees shall be
$100 for each caliper inch of deciduous tree or $50 for each vertical foot of
evergreen tree and shall be paid to the village prior to the issuance of any
building permits.
   (E)   Preservation techniques.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to the development of any project, temporary barriers
shall be installed to protect and preserve the existing vegetation.
         (b)   Wooden lath snow fencing, brightly colored plastic construction
fencing, chain link fencing, or an alternative barrier, shall be installed at
the periphery of the drip line of the tree or beyond to prevent storage of
materials or vehicles. Said fence or barrier shall be a minimum of 48 inches in
height securely anchored to fence posts a minimum distance of five feet on
center.
      (2)   Wherever a change of grade is planned, the trees to be preserved
shall be protected by a wall so as to preserve the existing grade for the
roots.
      (3)   Wherever a change of grade is planned, the topsoil shall be
preserved for the new landscaping to be installed, unless imported topsoil is
used which meets planting specifications as outlined in §
158.06.
      (4)   All grading and construction equipment shall be forbidden from
encroaching upon the drip line of any tree.
      (5)   Crushed limestone or any other material which may be detrimental to
trees shall not be dumped within the drip line of any tree(s) nor shall be
located at any higher location where drainage toward the tree(s) could
adversely affect the health of said tree(s).
      (6)   No materials or vehicles shall be stored, driven, or parked within
the drip line of any trees.
      (7)   In the event that an underground utility line is to be located
within five feet of the trunk of a tree designated for preservation, said
utility line shall be augured to prevent damage to the trees root system.
      (8)   All trees to be preserved which have been subjected to the
construction activity within the drip line should be reviewed by a qualified
arborist and appropriate actions performed per the recommendation of the
arborist. None of the trees shall be topped, headed-back, skinned (removal of
interior branches), or climbed with spikes. All dead wood shall be removed to
reduce hazard.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   In the event that trees are destroyed/removed, leaving no physical
evidence for measurement, tree size in caliper inches will be measured at the
stump diameter.
      (2)   In the event that a tree designated for preservation is destroyed
or razed during the construction process or has been removed without the
approval of village staff, each tree shall be replaced in accordance with the
applicable exchange rates. A minimum of $500 per tree penalty shall be assessed
upon the owner of the property on which the trees were removed. A temporary
work stoppage shall commence until such time that the village has determined
the number and size of tree(s) destroyed. In addition to the fines, destroyed
trees must be replaced in accordance to replacement ratios as mentioned above,
by the next growing season.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2272, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2341, passed
12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
LANDSCAPE CARE
§ 158.15 LANDSCAPE CARE GUIDELINES.
   (A)   General maintenance. The owner, tenant or their agent, if any, shall
be responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping located on the site
required by the provisions of this chapter or by any approved development plan
for the site. Landscaping shall be maintained in good condition so as to
present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance and shall be kept free from
refuse and debris. Any dead, or severely damaged or diseased plant shall be
replaced by the owner, tenant, or their agent during the next planting season
for the particular plant or plants in question.
   (B)   Pruning.
      (1)   The owner of trees overhanging public streets or right-of-way shall
prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any
street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there
shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
      (2)   The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light or
interferes with the visibility of any traffic control device or sign. The
property owner will be charged the cost of such service that the village
initiates for public safety.
   (C)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful for any person to top any street
tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the
determination of the Village Tree Advisory Board.
   (D)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property. The village shall
have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property within the village, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees within the village. The Village Tree Advisory Board will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of the service of notice. In the
event of failure of the owners to comply with such provisions, the village
shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal to
the property owner.
   (E)   Public tree care. The village shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs, within the right-of-ways of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds. The Village Tree Advisory Board may remove any
tree or part thereof, which is in an unsafe condition or by reason of its own
nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines,
or other public improvements, or is infected with any injurious fungus, insect
or other pest.
   (F)   The branches of deciduous trees and shrubs may be selectively thinned
by up to one-third in accordance with good horticultural practice; however, in
no case shall trimming result in reducing the overall size of the plant below
that specified on the approved landscape plan.
   (G)   Based upon the recommendations of the Village Tree Advisory Board,
certain types of trees will not be acceptable in parkway areas for reasons
pertaining to potential damage of public utilities, sidewalks, or potential
hazards to pedestrians and traffic safety.
   (H)   Failure to maintain required landscapes in good health and neat
appearance is subject to the penalties enumerated in this chapter and subject
to other penalties as may be provided by law.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3477,
passed 11-18-24) Penalty, see §
158.99
DESIGN METHODOLOGY
§ 158.25 PLANT UNITS.
   (A)   Plant units shall be calculated as follows:
      (1)   One overstory tree (2.5" caliper) = 10 plant units.
      (2)   One understory or ornamental tree (2" caliper) = 5 plant units.
      (3)   One evergreen tree (10' or greater in vertical height) = 8 plant
units.
      (4)   One evergreen tree (6' - 9' in vertical height) = 5 plant units.
      (5)   One large shrub (36" inches in height) = 2 plant units.
      (6)   One small shrub (24" inches in height) = 1 plant unit.
   In calculating the required number of plants any fraction shall be rounded
to the next whole unit.
   (B)   To ensure plant diversity a minimum number of species of trees and a
minimum number of species of shrubs shall be required on each parcel as
follows:
 
SIZE OF PARCEL (ACRES)    QUANTITY OF (TREE SPECIES) QUANTITY OF (SHRUB
                                                     SPECIES)
Less than 5 acres         3                          3
Greater than 5 acres but  5                          5
less than 15 acres
Greater than 15 acres but 7                          7
less than 30 acres
30 or more acres          7                          7
 
   (C)   Existing vegetation. Credit against the landscape requirements of this
chapter shall be allowed for existing vegetation and other landscape features
on an equal basis to the quality and size of plant material as required by this
chapter for plant material that the applicant proposes to preserve. Site
inspection and approval by village staff is required in order to receive credit
for existing vegetation.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.26 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Parkway plantings. Parkway plantings will be required in accordance
with §
158.31. For single-family detached residential developments of seven or more
units, a street tree master plan ("master plan") must be submitted for
approval. The master plan should attempt to provide groupings of similar tree
species along opposite street faces. Selection must be made from more than one
plant family/species per block face to prohibit single species plantings. Plant
material selection must be made from the approved street tree list (see
Appendix C).
   (B)   Double frontage. Landscaping shall be provided on each double frontage
lot, along the frontage which does not have access to the public right-of-way.
The landscaping shall provide a buffer to the traffic and noise associated with
the right-of-way. The landscaping shall be located parallel to the lot line and
shall extend along the entire frontage of the lot immediately adjacent to the
property line. The required landscaping shall be comprised exclusively of plant
material in accordance with the following schedule depending on the
classification of the adjacent ROW.
Figure A. Landscape Area Adjacent to Residential ROW – Typical
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.jpg]
 
   Residential: A minimum of a 15 foot wide landscaped area consisting of a
minimum of 75 plant units per 100 linear feet of frontage. Twenty-five percent
of the plant material by unit count must be evergreen.
Figure B. Landscape Area Adjacent to a Collector ROW – Typical
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.jpg]
 
   Collector: A minimum of an 18-foot wide landscaped area consisting of a
minimum of 100 plant units per 100 linear feet of frontage. Thirty percent of
the plant material by unit count must be evergreen. The landscape plan shall
include a berm no less than two and one-half feet in height to be located in a
landscape, no fence and no access easement. Exceptions to this requirement will
be considered if the berm conflicts with the natural or proposed drainage ways.
Figure C. Landscape Area Adjacent to an Arterial ROW – Typical
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/69a3a567d2029ae34a3257dc8d935ddc352a38ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.jpg]
 
   Arterial: A minimum of a 25 foot wide landscaped area consisting of a
minimum of 125 plant units per 100 linear feet of frontage. Forty percent of
the plant material by unit count must be evergreen. The landscape plan shall
include a landscape berm no less than three feet in height to be located in a
landscape, no fence and no access easement. Exceptions to this requirement will
be considered if the berm conflicts with the natural or proposed drainage ways.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.27 ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING.
   (A)   Parkway plantings. Parkway plantings will be required in accordance
with Article II, Section 7, Parkway Planting Standards. For single-family
attached residential developments of seven or more units, a street tree master
plan must be submitted for approval. The master plan should attempt to provide
groupings of similar trees along opposite street faces. Selection must be made
from more than one plant family/species per block face to prohibit single
specie plantings. Plant material selection must be made from the approved
street tree list. (see Appendix C)
   (B)   Front and side yards. All front and side yards shall be sodded and
landscaped with trees and shrubs. A minimum ratio of ten plant units shall be
provided for each 1,500 square feet of yard area. At least 75% of the plant
material must include overstory trees by unit count.
   (C)   Rear yards. A minimum of five plant units shall be provided for each
1,500 square feet of yard area.
   (D)   Double frontage. Double frontage lots comply with requirements as
outlined under §
158.26(B).
   (E)   Foundations.
      (1)   Foundation landscaping shall be provided on those sides of the
building which face a public right-of-way.
      (2)   The foundation landscaping shall be located in a planting bed a
minimum of ten feet in width adjacent to the building.
      (3)   The required foundation landscaping area shall remain open and free
of all paving except where sidewalks and driveways lead directly into the
building. In no case shall the foundation landscaping area be reduced to extend
across less than 50% of the building face due to said sidewalks and driveways.
      (4)   Foundation landscaping shall consist of a minimum ratio of 30 plant
units for every 1,000 square foot area of planting bed which is within ten feet
of the foundation. Flowers, ornamental grasses, and groundcover may also be
used.
      (5)   The required foundation landscaping may be relocated elsewhere on
site provided in an alternate manner, such as through the use of above ground
planting containers or boxes per staff approval.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.28 COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, AND INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Parkway plantings. Parkway plantings will be required in accordance
with §
158.31.
   (B)   Transition yards.
      (1)   The required landscaping in transitional yards shall be comprised
of a combination of overstory trees, evergreen trees, ornamental trees, and
large shrubs. If shrubs are used, they shall be installed at a minimum height
of five feet. Additional small shrubs may be used, but shall not count towards
meeting the landscape requirements.
      (2)   A minimum of a 25 foot wide landscaped screen consisting of a
minimum of 125 plant units per 100 linear feet of frontage measured along the
length of a common boundary between two units. Forty percent of the plant
material (by unit count) must be evergreen. The landscape plan shall include a
landscape berm of no less than three feet in height to be located in a
landscape easement. Exceptions will be considered if the berm is determined to
conflict with the natural or proposed drainage ways. (See §
158.26, Figure C for typical illustration.)
      (3)   At the direction of village staff the required number of plant
units may be reduced in the following percentages:
         (a)   Up to a 75% reduction in plant material (by unit count) for a
solid fence structure with a minimum height of six feet, constructed of solid
masonry or brick material, a combination of wood with masonry structural
supports, or materials as approved by village staff.
         (b)   Up to a 50% reduction in plant material for an earthen berm, a
minimum of six feet high, with a maximum slope of 3:1.
      (4)   If existing woodlands are located within the transition yard,
preservation of those woodlands may substitute for part or all of the required
landscaping. If the existing woodlands are located in only a part of the
transitional yard, the required number of plant units may be proportionally
reduced. The substitution of existing woodlands for transition yard landscaping
is at the discretion of staff and shall be indicated on the approved landscape
plan.
      (5)   The area of the transitional yard not planted with trees, shrubs,
or existing woodlands shall be planted with sod, live groundcover, flowers,
ornamental grasses or some combination thereof.
   (C)   Service yards and exterior work areas. Service yards and exterior work
areas shall be screened from view from residential and commercial areas and
public rights-of-way. The screening shall be consistent of that required for
transition yards (see §
158.28(B).)
   (D)   Requirements for open storage yards in industrial districts when
adjacent to commercial or residential uses or public right-of-way.
      (1)   Open storage yards shall be screened on all sides by solid walls or
fences (including solid doors or gates) no more than eight feet high, but in no
case lower in height than the materials to be stored. If stored materials
exceed eight feet in height, then landscaping shall be provided along the
outside perimeter of that portion of the fence or wall visible from the public
right-of-way or adjacent commercial or residential land uses. The landscaping
shall be in addition to the fence or wall. The installed height of the
landscaping shall be equal to or greater than one-half the height of the fence
or wall.
      (2)   Landscaping shall consist of 50 plant units per 100 linear feet of
fence. Twenty-five percent of plant material must be evergreen.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.29 STORMWATER RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITIES.
   Where naturalized landscape areas are installed around stormwater retention/
detention facilities, the areas must remain as naturalistic as possible,
resemble natural water features, provide habitat and stormwater management
benefits, and improve water quality.
   (A)   Stormwater retention/detention pond improvement plan. Landscape
improvement plans must be provided for all stormwater retention/detention
facilities. The plan must demonstrate the ability of the proposed plant
material to survive expected periods of inundation, based upon hydrologic
studies.
   (B)   Components of a stormwater retention/detention pond improvement plan.
Stormwater retention/detention pond improvement plans shall include the
following:
      (1)   North point and scale;
      (2)   Topographic information and proposed grades;
      (3)   Location of existing and/or proposed inlets/outlets;
      (4)   Identification of all plant zones by elevation range (i.e. 721 -
723.5, HWL — 719, etc.)
      (5)   Identification of all seed mixes and planting rates per plant zone
(i.e. Prairie, Wet Prairie, Emergent Wetland, Riparian Woods, Forested Wetland,
Turf Grass, etc.);
      (6)   Hydrograph data for the 2- and 100-year rainfall events on a time
vs. stage graph. Data for 5- and 10-year events may also be required if
determined necessary by the Code Official;
      (7)   Herbivory protection netting for emergent planting zones or as
deemed necessary by the Code Official;
      (8)   Perimeter landscaping comprised of a minimum of 20 plant units for
every 100 linear feet of perimeter, or part thereof as measured at high water
level;
      (9)   Location, type, size, quantity, and planting condition (balled and
burlapped, bare root, etc.) of all proposed landscape materials;
      (10)   Common and botanical names of all proposed plant material;
      (11)   Location, size and common/botanical name of existing vegetation to
remain;
      (12)   Symbols representing proposed plant material shall be drawn to
scale showing two-thirds of full mature size and labeled as to quantity and
type;
      (13)   Location of underground irrigation system, if any;
      (14)   Planting schedule;
      (15)   Near term monitoring and maintenance plan including the following:
         (a)   Site location;
         (b)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the party or parties
responsible for near-term monitoring and management; and
         (c)   Schedule of expected near-term management and monitoring
activities;
      (16)   Long term operation and maintenance plan including the following:
         (a)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the property owner(s)
of the stormwater facility;
         (b)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the party or parties
legally responsible for operations and management of the stormwater facility;
         (c)   Written documentation of acceptance by public agencies, as
applicable; including associated capital expenses;
         (d)   A copy of the terms demonstrating that the long-term management
agreement is recorded against all lots in the project;
         (e)   Location map identifying all permanent access (public and
private), boundaries between traditional turfgrass areas and the naturalized
areas covered by the plan, overland flow paths, and control structures;
         (f)   Educational pamphlet to be distributed at closing for all lots
in the development that the stormwater retention/detention facility serves;
         (g)   Schedule of expected long-term management activities; and
         (h)   Cost estimate for routine and non-routine expenses and dedicated
source(s) of funding for continued inspection, operation and maintenance.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.295 NATURALIZED LANDSCAPE REPORTING, MONITORING AND ACCEPTANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Naturalized landscape letter of credit. A letter of credit is required
to cover naturalized landscape improvements and shall include estimated cost of
natural landscape installation, monitoring and establishment management. The
approved estimate shall be included in the letter of credit (LOC) for the
development, which will cover costs associated with earthwork, planting,
inspections, and maintenance to achieve village acceptance requirements. The
acceptance period is expected to last a minimum of three years.
   (B)   Naturalized landscape security bond.
      (1)   A security bond may be provided to cover the expected monitoring
and management activities following substantial completion of the installation
of an approved landscape improvement plan. The security bond will be held until
the landscape is accepted by the village.
      (2)   Substantial completion means installation of all naturalized
landscaped materials, protection netting, and verification of critical grades
identified on the approved plan.
   (C)   Natural landscape specialist prequalification. Naturalized landscapes
are to be installed and managed by individuals/companies with qualifications
and/or experience with such landscapes. Qualifications are to be provided to
the village through submittal of references, photographs, resumes, and/or other
means that demonstrate the ability to install and/or manage naturalized
landscapes.
   (D)   Near-term reporting.
      (1)   The developer is to notify the village a minimum of 24-hours prior
to the start of plant installation.
      (2)   Following substantial completion, the developer is to submit
documentation that natural area landscape installation or revegetation has been
completed. Nursery packing lists indicating the species and quantities of
materials installed are to accompany this notice.
      (3)   The developer (or a designated representative) is to submit an
annual monitoring report to the village by February 28th of the following year
evaluating the progress of the naturalized landscape toward design goals. The
report shall include the following:
         (a)   A location map;
         (b)   Summary of annual monitoring observations, including five to ten
photographs representative of at least 20% of each vegetative community to
identify the following:
            1.   The limits of all vegetation areas by general community type
and dominant species within each planting zone (e.g., wetland and prairie
zones);
            2.   All plant species (native and non-native) in each planting
zone;
            3.   The five most dominant species within each planting zone;
            4.   The percent survival of planted species;
            5.   The approximate percent ground cover by native species within
each planting zone;
            6.   The percent ground cover by non-native or invasive species in
each planting zone;
            7.   Erosion and sedimentation problems;
            8.   Water level or drainage problems;
            9.   Areas of bare soil larger than three square-feet; and
            10.   Observations on specific management strategies necessary to
achieve acceptance requirements.
         (c)   Description of management performed during the year;
         (d)   Tabular summary of annual progress relative to acceptance
standards;
         (e)   List of recommendations for management during the upcoming year;
and
         (f)   Quarterly observations/inspections of earthen dam embankments,
control structures/ spillways.
   (F)   Long-term reporting. Every five years following village acceptance of
the naturalized landscape plantings, the owner of the property shall submit a
report to the village on the condition of naturalized landscapes, recommended
management actions to correct deficiencies, and a proposed schedule for
implementing the recommended actions. Following implementation of corrective
actions, documentation is to be provided to the village demonstrating that
deficiencies have been corrected.
   (G)   Naturalized landscape acceptance.
      (1)   Satisfactory landscape development associated with naturalized
vegetation in stormwater facilities or other naturalized areas will be based on
the following:
         (a)   Within three months of seed installation (or three months after
the start of the growing season following dormant seeding), at least 90% of the
seeded area, as measured by aerial cover, will be vegetated or otherwise
stabilized against erosion.
         (b)   Naturalized landscapes shall not have single areas of more than
three square-feet devoid of vegetation, as measured by aerial coverage.
         (c)   Seeded areas shall have no rills or gullies and basin shorelines
shall be adequately protected against erosion.
         (d)   Areas seeded to turfgrass or low-maintenance turf shall have 95%
ground cover.
         (e)   Emergent areas shall have minimum of 35% ground cover (average
50%) and other wetland and prairie areas shall have a minimum of 35% ground
cover (average 60%) by species in the approved plant list and/or native species
with native coefficient of conservation (C-) values 2 (per Swink and Wilhelm
1994 or more current version).
         (f)   Naturalized landscapes shall have a minimum of 30% presence by
species seeded or planted for the permanent matrix and/or native species with
C- value 2 (per Swink and Wilhelm 1994 or more current version).
         (g)   Installed woody materials shall be alive, in healthy condition,
and representative of the species.
         (h)   No specific plant community, individual or collective, shall
have more than 25% cover of non-native or weedy species.
         (i)   None of the three most dominant species may be non-native or
weedy, including but not limited to Barnyard grass (Echinochloacrus-galli),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), Common reed (Phragmites australis), Kentucky
bluegrass (Poa pratensis), Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria), Reed canary
grass (Phalaris arundinacea), Sandbar willow (Salix interior), or Sweetclover
(Melilotus spp.) unless otherwise indicated on the approved planting plan.
         (j)   Cattails (Typha spp.) do not count towards the 25% weed
criterion provided they represent no more than 20% cover.
(Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.296 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES WITHIN NATURALIZED LANDSCAPE AREAS.
   The following activities are prohibited within areas of naturalized
landscaping except as needed to achieve and maintain a naturalized landscape
consistent with an approved plan and as directed by a village-approved
landscape restoration specialist:
   (A)   Dumping of yard waste, fill material or debris;
   (B)   Replacement of approved vegetation with non-approved materials;
   (C)   Construction or placement of structures;
   (D)   Application of pesticides, fertilizer, or herbicides;
   (E)   Mowing;
   (F)   Commercial, industrial, agricultural, residential developments,
buildings, or structures, including but not limited to signs, billboards, other
advertising material, or other structures;
   (G)   Removal or destruction of trees or plants, draining, plowing, mining,
removal of topsoil, sand, rock, gravel, minerals or other material; and
   (H)   Operation of snowmobiles, dune buggies, motorcycles, all-terrain
vehicles or any other types of motorized vehicles.
(Ord. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.30 PARKING LOTS AND VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
   (A)   Vehicular use areas adjacent to residential uses and public right-of-
way.
      (1)   Off-street parking lots for three or more cars or other vehicular
use areas shall provide an effectively solid landscape screen of the parking
area from adjacent residential uses and public ROW. The landscaping shall
consist of one of the following options:
         (a)   A minimum ten foot wide vegetative screen along the perimeter of
the parkway area. This may be located in the 25-foot green space required in
commercial and industrial districts. This screen shall consist of 150 plant
units per 100 linear feet and at least 75% of plant material must be evergreen.
         (b)   A berm that is at least two and one-half feet higher than the
finished elevation of the parking lot (at the nearest point) and landscaping
that includes 125 plant units per 100 linear feet. A minimum of 50% of the
plant material must be evergreen. Plantings should be designed in a natural
grouping; a linear design is discouraged. The berm shall be graded in an
undulating manner to appear more natural.
         (c)   A minimum six foot wide vegetative screen along a minimum three
foot grade drop from the adjacent green area to the parking lot, with
landscaping that includes 100 plant units per 100 linear feet. A minimum of 50%
of the plant material must be evergreen. Slope should not exceed a 4:1 ratio.
         (d)   A three foot high fence of brick or stone with a minimum six-
foot wide planting strip planted with 50 plant units per 100 linear feet. A
minimum of 75% of the plant material must be overstory or evergreen trees.
   (B)   Drive-thru lanes adjacent to other vehicular use areas. Drive-thru
lanes shall be separated from adjacent driveways, parking lot aisles and other
vehicular uses areas by a curbed planting bed along the entire length of the
lane. The planting bed shall be a minimum of five feet wide (excluding the
curb) and shall contain a minimum of 100 plant units per 100 linear feet.
   (C)   Interior parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   The interior of a parking lot with more than 20 cars shall include
landscape islands planted with overstory trees at a ratio of one landscape
island for every ten parking spaces or fraction thereof. They shall be evenly
dispersed throughout the parking area. The planting beds shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   The minimum area of a planting bed for each tree shall be 162
square feet with a minimum dimension of nine feet in any direction. These
planting beds shall be curbed with a barrier curb. Planting beds may be
combined to create larger planting islands within the parking lot.
         (b)   Planting beds shall not be used for snow storage. Rather,
separate snow storage areas shall be designated on the landscape plan.
         (c)   Small shrubs, flowers and groundcovers other than turf grass may
be planted in the tree planting beds, in addition to the required overstory
trees.
         (d)   Plant materials other than groundcover shall be set back a
minimum of three feet from the curb to avoid damage from overhanging car
bumpers and doors.
         (e)   Plant materials other than overstory trees shall be limited to a
mature height of no more than two feet within ten feet of any curb at a
driveway intersection.
      (2)   Curbed planting islands shall be placed at the ends of each row of
parking. These islands shall be a minimum of nine feet wide and shall extend
the length of the parking stalls. They shall be landscaped with trees, shrubs,
flowers or groundcover. (See graphic above.)
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.31 PARKWAY/PUBLIC TREE PLANTING AND CARE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. All planting and maintenance of public trees shall conform
to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 “Standards for Tree
Care Operations and shall follow all tree care Best Management Practices (BMPs)
published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (B)   Parkways should be planted according to the following standards for
all development of property, including any modifications of existing structures
which increases the footprint of the existing structure by 25% or in those
cases where the cost of improvements exceeds the value of the existing
structure by 50%. Existing values shall be determined by the value of the
building as stated on the most recent tax bill as provided by the owner. The
owner shall also provide estimated costs of improvements.
      (1)   Street trees shall be planted along all public or privately
dedicated streets within a development at a rate of one overstory tree per 35
linear feet, (excluding driveways) or fraction thereof.
      (2)   Selection of tree species for street tree planting shall be made
from the approved street tree plant list available from the village (see
Appendix C). This list shall be updated by the village as needed to ensure
quality, disease resistance and hardiness.
      (3)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 30' from the right-of-
way line at an intersection or closer than eight feet from any drive or alley
way.
      (4)   Landscape materials shall be selected and located so as not to
obstruct visual or physical access to fire hydrants. Trees and shrubs shall not
be located closer than six feet to fire hydrants, transformers or above ground
utilities, and 15' from any street light.
      (5)   The parkways shall be planted in grass or low ground cover, except
where covered by pavement, trees, or shrubs, or up to two feet of paving which
is allowed along the curb.
      (6)   The use of stone, rock, or gravel is prohibited on public parkways.
      (7)   Plantings under utility wires is discouraged. If overhead utilities
exist, plant selection shall be made from the approved understory plant list
(see Appendix B) and spacing requirement shall be reduced to one tree per 25
linear feet.
      (8)   Parkways less than four feet in width do not require tree
plantings. Penalty, see §
158.99.
   (C)   Adjacent owner responsibility.
      (1)   The owner of land adjacent to any village street or highway, when
acting within the provisions of this section, may plant and maintain trees in
the adjacent parkway area.
      (2)   No property owner shall allow a tree, or other plant growing on his
or her property to obstruct or interfere with pedestrians or the view of
drivers, thereby creating a hazard. If an obstruction persists, the Director
shall notify the property owner to prune or remove the tree or plant. If the
owner fails to comply with the notice, the village may undertake the necessary
work and charge the cost to the property owner.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am Ord. 3477, passed
11-18-24) Penalty, see §
158.99
LEGAL APPLICATIONS
§ 158.44 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   (A)   Delegation of authority and responsibility. The Superintendent of
Public Works and/or their designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Director,”
shall have full authority and responsibility to plant, prune, maintain, and
remove trees and woody plants growing in or upon all municipal streets, rights-
of- ways, village parks, and other public property. This shall include the
removal of trees that may threaten electrical, telephone, gas, or any municipal
water or sewer line, or any tree that is affected by fungus, insect, or other
pest disease.
   (B)   Coordination among village departments. All village departments will
coordinate as necessary with the Director and will provide services as required
to ensure compliance with this section as it relates to streets, alleys,
rights-of-way, drainage, easements, and other public properties not under
direct jurisdiction of the Director.
   (C)   Interference. No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere
with the Director or his agents while engaged in carrying out the execution or
enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 3477, passed 11-18-24)
§ 158.45 VILLAGE TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created and established a Village Tree
Advisory Board (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) which shall consist of
five members, residents of this village and/or non- resident employees of this
village, who shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Village
Trustees.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five members of the Board, to be
appointed by the Mayor, shall be three years except that the term of the two
members appointed to the first Board shall be two years. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall
be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Removal. Any Board member who misses more than two consecutive
meetings may be recommended for removal by the Chair to the Mayor.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. The Board shall act in an advisory
capacity to the Director and shall:
      (1)   Coordinate and promote Arbor Day activities;
      (2)   Review and update a five-year plan to plant and maintain trees on
village property;
      (3)   Support public awareness and education programs relating to trees;
      (4)   Review Village Department concerns relating to tree care;
      (5)   Submit an annual report of its activities to the Village Board;
      (6)   Assist with the annual application to renew the Tree City USA
designation;
      (7)   Recommend a list of tree species for planting on village property,
and a list of prohibited species; and
      (8)   Other duties that may be assigned by Village Board.
   (F)   Operation. The Village Tree Advisory Board shall choose its own
officers, make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its
proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3209,
passed 6-17-19; Am. Ord. 3477, passed 11-18-24)
§ 158.46 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   License. It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the
business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing any parkway trees
within the village without first applying for and procuring a license. The
license fee shall be $75 annually in advance; provided, however, that no
license shall be required of any public service company or village employee
doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any
license shall be issued each applicant shall first file evidence of possession
of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $500,000 for bodily injury and
$1,000,000 property damage indemnifying the village or any person injured or
damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
   (B)   Bond. The property owner/developer shall provide a non-revocable
letter of credit payable to the village to ensure that the landscaping as
approved will be installed. The letter of credit shall reflect 115% of the cost
of required landscaping as approved to ensure that such landscaping will be
installed. The owner must also grant the village the right to enter upon the
land for the purposes of installing the required landscaping in the event that
such landscaping is not installed. The letter of credit shall be released when
landscape installation is approved by the village, with 15% retained by the
village for a one-year guarantee period.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06) Penalty, see §
158.99
PROHIBITION AGAINST HARMING PUBLIC TREES
§ 158.90 PROHIBITION AGAINST HARMING PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to damage,
remove, or cause the damage or removal of a tree on public property without
written permission from the Director.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to attach
any cable, wire, sign, or any other object to any street, park, or public tree.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to “top” any
public tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, where best
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this provision at the
determination of the Director.
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation, or village department performing
construction near any public tree(s) shall consult with the Director and shall
employ appropriate measures to protect the tree(s), according to procedures
contained in the Best Management Practices (BMPs) for “Managing Trees During
Construction” published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (E)   Each violation of this section as determined and notified by the
Director shall constitute a separate violation, punishable by fines and
penalties under § 158.99, in addition to mitigation values placed on the tree
(s) removed or damaged in violation of this section.
(Ord. 3477, passed 11-18-24)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provisions of this chapter or any of the codes adopted
herein as codes established for the village shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense and that each day the
violation of this chapter exists shall be considered a separate offense. In
addition to the proceeding, the village shall have all other remedies available
to it either at law or in equity.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06)
APPENDIX A: OVERSTORY TREES
   RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIAL FOR OVERSTORY TREES*
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                      Common Name
Acer nigrum var.                    Black Maple
Acer rubrum var.                    Red Maple
Acer saccharum var.                 Sugar Maple
Aesculus glabra                     Ohio Buckeye
Carya Ovata                         Shagbark Hickory
Celtis Occidentalis                 Hackberry
Corylus colurna                     Turkish Filbert
Ginkgo biloba (male only)           Maidenhair Tree
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis var. Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioicus                 Kentucky Coffeetree
Juglans nigra                       Walnut
Liridenron tulipfera                Tuliptree
Ostrya/Vriginiana                   Ironwood
Plantanus acerifolia                London Planetree
Plantanus ocidentalis               Sycamore
Quercus Alba                        White Oak
Quercus bicolor                     Swamp White Oak
Quercus ellipsoldalis               Hill’s Oak
Quercus Imbricaria                  Shingle Oak
Quercus macrocarpa                  Bur Oak
Quercus muehlenbergii               Chinkapin Oak
Quercus palustris                   Pin Oak* (high maintenance Chlorosis)
Quercus robur                       English Oak
Quercus rubra                       Red Oak
Quercus velutina                    Black Oak
Syringa Reticulate                  Japanese Tree Lilac
Taxodium Distichum                  Bald Cypres
Tilia americana                     American Linden
Tilia cordata var.                  Littleleaf Linden
Tilia euchlora “Redmond”        Redmond Linden
Tilia vulgaris                      European Linden
Tilia Tomentosa                     Sterling Silver Linden
Ulmus var.                          Elm (newer hybrids)
 
*Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3301,
passed 5-17-21)
APPENDIX B: UNDERSTORY TREES
   RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIAL FOR UNDERSTORY TREES*
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                Common Name
Alnus glutinosa               European Black Alder
Amelanchier canadensis        Shadblow Serviceberry
Amelanchier grandiflora       Apple Serviceberry
Amelanchier laevis            Allegheny Serviceberry
Amelanchier sanguinea         Juneberry
Betula nigra var.             River Birch
Betula platyphyllis japonicum Whitespire Birch
Carpinus carolina             American Hornbeam
Corylus Cornuta               Hazelnut
Crataegus crus-galli inermis  Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
Crataegus phaenopyrum         Washington Hawthorn
Crataegus viridis             Winter King Hawthorn
Magnolia x loebneri “MerrillMerrill Loebner Magnolia
Magnolia soulangeana          Saucer Magnolia
Magnolia stellata             Star Magnolia
Malus ‘prairiefire’       Prairiefire Crab
Malus ‘red jewel’         Red Jewel Crab
Syringa reticulata            Japanese Tree Lilac
 
*Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3301,
passed 5-17-21)
APPENDIX C: STREET TREES
   RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIALS FOR STREET TREES*
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                       Common Name
Acer x freemanii                     Autumn Blaze or Marmo
Acer nigrum var.                     Black Maple
Acer platanoides ‘Emerald Queen’ Emerald Queen Maple
Acer rubrum var.                     Red Maple
Acer saccharum var.                  Sugar Maple (for parkway greater than 10
                                     ft.)
Carya Ovata                          Shagbark Hickory
Celtis Occidentalis                  Hackberry
Corylus colurna                      Turkish Filbert
Ginko Biloba (male only)             Maidenhair Tree
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis var.  Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioicus                  Kentucky Coffeetree
Ostrya/Vriginiana                    Ironwood
Plantanus acerifolia or occidentalis London Planetree, Sycamore
Quercus Alba                         White Oak
Quercus bicolor                      Swamp White Oak
Quercus ellipsoldalis                Hill’s Oak
Quercus Imbricaria                   Shingle Oak
Quercus rubra                        Red Oak
Quercus velutina                     Black Oak
Syringa reticulate                   Japanese Tree Lilac
Tilia americana                      American Linden
Tilia cordata var.                   Littleleaf Linden
Tilia euchlora “Redmond”         Redmond Linden
Tilia tomentosa                      Sterling Silver Linden
Ulmus var                            Elm (newer hybrids)
 
*Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2272, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2341, passed
12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3301, passed 5-17-21)
APPENDIX D: EVERGREEN TREES
   RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIALS FOR EVERGREEN TREES*
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name        Common Name
Abies Concolor        White Fir
Juniperus Virginiana  Eastern Red Cedar
Picea Abies           Norway Spruce
Picea Glauca          White Spruce
Picea Gluaca Densata  Black Hills Spruce
Picea Omorika         Serbian Spruce
Picea Pungens         Colorado Green Spruce
Picea P. ‘Gluaca’ Colorado Blue Spruce
Pinus Flexilus        Limber Pine
Pinus Ponderosa       Ponderosa Pine
Pinus Strobus         Eastern White Pine
Pseudtotsuga Meniesii Douglas Fir
Pinus Sylvestris      Scotch Pine
Taxodium Distichum    Bald Cypress
Tsuga Canadensis      Canadian Hemlock
 
*Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices.
(Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06)
APPENDIX E: PRESERVATION TREES
   RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIALS FOR PRESERVATION TREES*
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                 Common Name
Aesculus species               Buckeye/Horse Chestnut
Acer rubrum                    Red Maple
Acer saccharum                 Sugar Maple
Carpinus caroliniana           Blue Beech
Carya var.                     Hickory
Celtis occidentalis            Hackberry
Fraxinus americana var         White Ash
Gymnocladus dioicus            Kentucky Coffeetree
Juglans nigra                  Walnut
Ostrya Virginiana              Ironwood
Platanus occidentalis          Sycamore
Quercus (all except palustris) Oaks (all except Pin Oak)
Taxodiumdistichum              Bald Cyprus
Tilia americana                American Linden
 
*Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2272, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2341, passed
12-18-06)
APPENDIX F: STORMWATER DETENTION/RETENTION TREES
   RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIALS FOR DETENTION TREES*
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name               Common Name
Acer rubrum                  Red Maple
Acer saccharum               Sugar Maple
Alnus glutinosa              European Alder
Alnus rugosa                 Speckled Alder (native)
Betala nigra                 River Birch
Carpinus caroliniana         Blue Beach
Carya ovata                  Shagbark Hickory
Crataegus crus-galli inermis Thornless Hawthorne
Gymnocladus Dioicus          Kentucky Coffeetree
Jaglans nigra                Black Walnut
Platanus occidentalis        Sycamore
Quercus bicolor              Swamp White Oak
Quercus rubra                Red Oak
Taxodium disfichum           Bald Cyprus
 
*Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices.
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06)
APPENDIX G: UNACCEPTABLE TREES
   PLANT MATERIAL LIST FOR UNACCEPTABLE TREES
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name           Common Name
Acer ginnala             Amur Maple
Acer negundo             Box Elder
Acer platanoides         Norway Maple
Acer pseudoplatanus      Sycamore Maple
Acer saccharinum         Silver Maple
Ailanthus altissima      Tree-of-Heaven
Betula papyrifera        Paper/white Birch
Cercidiphyllum japonicum Katsura
Elaegnus angustifolia    Russian Olive
Frangula alnus           Glossy Buckthorn
Fraxinus Var.            Ash
Ginko Biloba (female)    Female Ginko
Maclura Pomifera         Osage Orange, Hedge Apple
Malus spp.               Apples, Crabapples (unless otherwise noted)
Morns alba               White Mulberry
Pinus nigra              Austrian Pine
Populus spp.             Poplars, Cottonwoods, Aspen
Prunus spp.              Pears (all cultivars)Cherries, Plums
Pyrus                     
Rhamnus spp.             Buckthorn
Salix spp.               Willows
Ulmus                    Elms (other than newer hybrids)
 
(Ord. 1565, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2341, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 3301,
passed 5-17-21)
CHAPTER 159: LOW INTEREST LOAN PROGRAM FOR COMMERCIAL IMPROVEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
159.01   Purpose
   
159.02   Façade improvement low interest program
   
159.03   Project eligibility criteria
   
159.04   Borrower eligibility
   
159.05   General terms and conditions
Development and Design Standards
   
159.15   Design standards
   
159.16   Building and structure design
   
159.17   Site development and landscape
   
159.18   Signs
   
159.19   Screening
   
159.20   Utility services
   
159.21   Parking areas
   
159.22   Lighting
   
159.23   Miscellaneous structures and street hardware
Administration
   
159.35   Submittal requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these design guidelines is to establish criteria for the
remodeling of existing structures within the established program area (see
Exhibit 1 attached to Ord. 1818). These criteria are not intended to restrict
imagination, innovation, or variety, but rather to assist in focusing on design
principles, which can result in an improved appearance within the village,
preserve and increase taxable values, and promote the public health, safety,
and welfare.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00)
§ 159.02 FAÇADE IMPROVEMENT LOW INTEREST PROGRAM.
   (A)   The purpose of the Low Interest Loan Program is to provide funding
assistance to existing businesses located along the Route 30 and 45 corridor,
and within the Historic Downtown District (as depicted on the district map
attached to Ord. 1818) in improving the façades of their existing structures.
   (B)   Applicants making improvements within the guidelines herein
established may apply for funding under this program after receiving a
certificate of appropriateness from the Design Review Committee (1890's
Committee). Funding under the program is to be provided in the form of a
commercial loan interest rate buy-down of 3%. The 3% buy-down is to be provided
from a fund established by the Village Board as part of the fiscal year budget
and paid to the lending institution at time of loan closing.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00)
§ 159.03 PROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
   The intent of the program is to encourage the rehabilitation, renovation and
reuse of existing commercial buildings within the designated districts. The
renovation of exterior building façades and site improvements are eligible
improvements for consideration. New construction or non-permanent improvements,
including interior rehabilitation, are not eligible under this loan program.
Permanent interior improvements are eligible in the Historic District, based on
the age of the building. Properties or structures must comply with all village
ordinances, or be brought into compliance prior to occupancy permit, unless
otherwise granted a variance by the Village Board. The following improvements
are considered eligible items for funding under this program:
   (A)   Exterior renovation.
      (1)   Exterior painting;
      (2)   Tuck pointing;
      (3)   General façade repair;
      (4)   Cleaning of stone and brick;
      (5)   Window or door repair or replacement;
      (6)   Roof or wall repair or replacement, installation of awnings;
      (7)   Signage;
      (8)   Other permanent façade improvements.
   (B)   Site improvements.
      (1)   Paving/curbing of parking areas;
      (2)   Enclosure of dumpster areas, sidewalks, and bike paths;
      (3)   Installation of bike racks;
      (4)   Landscaping.
   (C)   Professional fees.
      (1)   Architectural services;
      (2)   Engineering services;
      (3)   Other professional consulting services.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00)
§ 159.04 BORROWER ELIGIBILITY.
   The following parties will be eligible to apply for the Commercial District
Façade Low Interest Improvement Loan and shall be considered to be individuals
as well as partnerships or corporations:
   (A)   Business owner-occupant either presently occupying or proposing to
occupy a building.
   (B)   Business-tenant occupant presently occupying or proposing to occupy a
building or a portion thereof. (Owner will be required to be notified of
proposed improvements.)
   (C)   Building owner who is not an occupant either presently owning or
proposing to own a building. The owner or the proposed owner must have signed
tenants for at least 51% of the net lease space included in the area proposed
to be renovated under this program.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00)
§ 159.05 GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   The following terms and conditions will apply to all projects.
   (A)   Funds will be limited to permanent improvements, and not to be used
for working capital or refinancing of existing debt.
   (B)   No more than one loan will be made for improvements at any one
building within a fiscal year, except multiple grants may be made to separate
commercial tenants in a single building.
   (C)   All improvements applied for under this program must be in conformance
with all building, plumbing, electrical, and other construction codes and
standards presently in force (or which may come into force during the course of
this program) by the village. At the conclusion of such rehabilitation, the
portion of the building rehabilitated must be eligible for occupancy under
applicable village ordinances.
   (D)   All exterior improvements must conform to design guidelines as
outlined by the Commercial District Façade Improvement Committee, and must
receive a certificate of appropriateness before a building permit is issued for
the project.
   (E)   Eligible professional fees are limited to no greater than 10% of the
estimated cost of construction.
   (F)   Approved applicants must provide a cost estimate of proposed
improvements for approval by the village.
   (G)   Improvements approved under the program must be completed within one
year of application approval.
   (H)   All commercial loan rates are to be approved by the village prior to
payment of 3% buy-down from the village at closing. Loan terms are to be fixed
for a maximum of ten years, with loan amounts applicable under this program not
to exceed $200,000.
   (I)   The village reserves the right to provide applicants with a grant,
rather than a buy-down, for those applicants who are making improvements which
receive a certificate of appropriateness under the terms of this program, but
who are not seeking a loan to pay for such improvements. In such cases the
grant shall not exceed a value equal to a 3% buy-down of a comparable
commercial loan with a five-year term. A comparable commercial loan shall be
determined by taking the average commercial rate of three local lending
institutions and amortizing the average rate.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00)
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 159.15 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following are the purposes of the architectural design standards set
forth by the village:
   (A)   To create an architectural identity and to avoid monotony in exterior
design and appearance of property;
   (B)   To promote the growth of the village, and to protect and enhance land
values, investments, and the general welfare of the citizens of the village;
   (C)   To protect and to stabilize the general appearance of buildings,
structures, landscaping and open space areas throughout the village;
   (D)   To encourage and promote acceptability, attractiveness, cohesiveness
and compatibility of new development, so at to maintain and improve the current
standards of property values throughout the village;
   (E)   To guide prospective contractors, architects, designers and developers
in preparing their project for review by the Plan Commission and Village Board.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00)
§ 159.16 BUILDING AND STRUCTURE DESIGN
   The following terms and conditions will apply to all projects:
   (A)   Visual compatibility. All developments applying for a façade
improvement loan permit shall meet the following terms and conditions for
visual compatibility:
      (1)   Height. The height of the proposed building or structure shall be
visually compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of front façade. The relationship of the width to the
height of the front façade of the proposed building or structure shall be
visually compatible with buildings, public right-of-ways, and places to which
it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings. The relationship of the width to the height
of windows of the proposed building or structure shall be visually compatible
with buildings, public right-of-ways, and places to which it is visually
related.
      (4)   Rhythm of spacing and buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building or structure to the open spaces between it and adjoining buildings or
structures shall be visually compatible with the buildings, public right-of-
ways, and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture, and color of the façade of the proposed building or
structure shall be visually compatible with the predominant materials used in
the buildings and structures to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of the proposed building or structure
shall be visually compatible with the buildings to which it is visually
related.
      (7)   Walls of continuity. Building façades and appurtenances such as
walls, fences, and landscape masses shall, when it is a characteristic of the
area, form cohesive walls of enclosure along a street to ensure visual
compatibility with the buildings, public right-of-ways, and places to which
such elements are visually related.
      (8)   Scale of building. The size and mass of the proposed building or
structure in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and
balconies shall be visually compatible with the buildings, public right-of-
ways, and places to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building shall be
visually compatible with the buildings, public right-of-ways, and places to
which it is visually related in its directional character, whether this be
vertical character, horizontal character, or non-directional character.
   (B)   Additional guidelines. In addition to the terms and conditions stated
above, all buildings and structures shall adhere to the following guidelines:
      (1)   Buildings and structures shall be consistent with the established
neighborhood character and
with any adjacent residential property.
      (2)   Building materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of
buildings and the design in which they are used. Buildings shall use the same
materials, or those which are architecturally harmonious, for all building
walls and other exterior building components that are wholly or partially
visible from public right-of-ways.
      (3)   Building materials shall be of durable quality. Inappropriate
materials or building methods, and those which will produce inconsistency with
the structure and architecture of the building, shall be avoided.
      (4)   Flat or mansard roofs shall be discouraged. Front or side gabled
roofs should be consistent in design and pitch with the surrounding area.
      (5)   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves, and parapets,
shall have good proportions and relationships to one another.
      (6)   Building color scheme should be harmonious with other structures to
which it is visually related in the aspect of character and quality of
structures in the surrounding area.
      (7)   Monotony of design shall be avoided, however, structures should
complement each other in harmonious design.
      (8)   Façades greater than 100 feet in length must incorporate recesses
and projections along at least 20% of the length of the façade. Windows,
awnings, and arcades must total at least 60% of the façade length abutting a
public row.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.17 SITE DEVELOPMENT AND LANDSCAPE.
   The purpose of these criteria is to establish a checklist of those items
that affect the aesthetic and physical aspect of Frankfort’s environment.
Pertinent to appearance is the design of the site, building and structures,
planting, signs, street hardware, and miscellaneous other objects that are
observed by the public.
   (A)   Relationship of buildings to site.
      (1)   The site shall be planned to accomplish a desirable transition with
the streetscape, and to provide for adequate planting, safe pedestrian
movement, and parking areas.
      (2)   Site planning in which setbacks and yards are in excess of zoning
restrictions is encouraged to provide an interesting relationship between
buildings.
      (3)   Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements, building
wall extensions, plantings, berms, or other innovative means so as to screen
parking areas from view of public right-of-ways.
      (4)   The height and scale of each building shall be compatible with the
site and existing adjoining buildings.
   (B)   Relationship of buildings and site to adjoining area.
      (1)   Attractive landscape transition to adjoining properties shall be
required.
      (2)   Harmony in texture, lines, and masses is required. Monotony shall
be avoided.
   (C)   Landscape and site treatment. Landscape elements included in these
criteria consist of all forms of planting and vegetation, ground forms, rock
groupings, water patterns, and all visible construction, except buildings and
utility structures.
      (1)   Modification to topography will be permitted where it contributes
to the quality of the overall appearance of the site.
      (2)   Landscape treatment shall be provided to enhance architectural
features, strengthen vistas and important axes, and provide shade.
      (3)   Unity of design shall be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials, and by correlation with adjacent developments.
      (4)   Plant material shall be selected for interest in its structure,
texture, and color, and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are indigenous to
the area and others that will be hardy, harmonious to the design, and of
sufficient appearance shall be used. The use of artificial plants is
prohibited.
      (5)   Parking areas and traffic ways shall be enhanced with landscape
islands containing trees or tree groupings.
      (6)   Screening of service yards and other places that tend to be
unsightly shall be accomplished by use of planting; screening shall be equally
effective in the winter and summer.
      (7)   In areas where grass or ground cover will not prosper, other
materials, such as paving of brick, stone and cobbles, should be used.
Carefully selected plants should be combined with such materials where
possible. The use of concrete and asphalt is not encouraged.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.18 SIGNS.
   All signs must meet current village codes and ordinances. In addition, the
following shall serve as general guidelines for review of sign proposals:
   (A)   Every sign shall have a sufficient scale and proportion in its design
and in its visual relationship to buildings and surroundings.
   (B)   Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element of
the building and site to which it principally relates.
   (C)   The number of graphic elements on a sign shall be held to the minimum
needed to convey the sign’s major message, and shall be composed in proportion
to the area of the sign face.
   (D)   Each sign shall be compatible with signs on adjoining premises and
shall not compete for attention.
   (E)   Colors shall be used harmoniously and with restraint. Excessive
brightness and brilliant colors shall be avoided.
   (F)   Lighting shall be harmonious with the design. If external spot or
floor light is used, it shall be arranged so that the light source is shielded
from view. Backlit block signage shall be discouraged.
   (G)   Wall signs shall be part of the architectural concept. Size, color,
lettering, location, and arrangement shall be harmonious with the building
design and other surrounding designs as well.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.19 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening of service yards, utility meters and hardware, mechanical
equipment, refuse areas, and/or other potentially unattractive areas shall be
screened by the use of berms, dense plantings, masonry walls, or fences, as
approved by the Design Review Committee. Non-vegetation screening shall use
materials and design similar to the architecture of the structure. Screening
shall be effective in the winter and summer seasons.
   (B)   The degree of visibility and screening of service yards, utility
meters and hardware, mechanical equipment, refuse areas, and/or other potential
unattractive places shall be evaluated using the following criteria:
      (1)   The degree of visibility from all adjacent public right-of-ways;
      (2)   The architectural compatibility of screening with the building and
structure;
      (3)   Possible visibility from future buildings and public right-of-ways;
      (4)   Internal overall appearance in relation to the site.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.20 UTILITY SERVICES.
   Newly installed utility services, and service revisions that are necessary
from exterior alterations, shall be located underground.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.21 PARKING AREAS.
   Parking areas shall comply with the provisions of current village ordinances
and shall be treated with decorative elements, building wall extensions,
plantings, berms, or other innovative ways to adequately screen parking areas
from public right-of-ways. All parking areas shall include concrete curbing
along pavement edges.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.22 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Outdoor lighting, where provided, should enhance the building design
and the adjoining landscape. Lighting standards, fixtures and all exposed
accessories shall comply with the village’s requirements, and design and signs
should be harmonious with the design of the surrounding areas. Excessive
brightness, flashing lights, and brilliant colors shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Lighting in connection with miscellaneous structures and street
hardware shall meet the criteria applicable to site, landscape, building and
sign requirements.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 159.23 MISCELLANEOUS STRUCTURES AND STREET HARDWARE.
   Miscellaneous structures and street hardware shall be designed to be part of
the architectural concept of design and landscape. Materials shall be
compatible with buildings, scale shall be sufficient, colors shall be in
harmony with buildings and surroundings, and proportions shall be attractive.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 159.35 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All exhibits required for the permanent file must be able to be reduced to
legal size (8½ x 11) by folding, photo reduction, and the like. However, larger
mounting boards, material samples, or other exhibits may be used for the Design
Review Committee presentation. Ten black or blue-line prints of the following
are required for submittal for presentation to the Design Review Committee. In
addition, the following submittal requirements must be submitted for the
relevant project types:
   (A)   Building structure proposals. Complete elevations of all proposed
construction and related elevations of existing structures are required,
containing the following information (all proposals shall include a building
material presentation board):
      (1)   Building elevations for side of the building;
      (2)   Script of building material;
      (3)   Identify color scheme;
      (4)   Pitch of roof.
   (B)   Site plan. A site plan is required for projects requesting funding for
site improvements:
      (1)   Scale and north arrow;
      (2)   Address of site;
      (3)   All property and street pavement lines;
      (4)   Proposed ingress and egress to the site, including the number of
proposed on-site parking spaces. Delineate traffic flow with directional
arrows;
      (5)   Location of proposed existing landscape;
      (6)   Proposed number of each type of plant (botanical and common name),
and installation size of plants proposed for all landscape areas;
      (7)   Location of street trees along parkways;
      (8)   Location of existing and proposed buildings on site, and all
buildings within 50 feet of the site’s boundary;
      (9)   Location of all existing and proposed lighting standards.
   (C)   Sign proposal. An elevation is required of each face of the proposed
sign, showing the following information:
      (1)   All specifications, including size of letters and graphics;
      (2)   Description of sign and frame materials and colors, including
supports;
      (3)   Wall anchorage details for wall-mounted signs;
      (4)   All backlit block signs are strongly discouraged.
   (D)   Elevation. Elevations and description of building materials for
ground-mounted signs. An elevation drawn to scale of the entire wall of the
building to which the sign is to be fixed, correctly locating the sign.
   (E)   Lighting proposals; site plan. A site plan is required containing the
following information:
      (1)   Scale and north arrow;
      (2)   Address of site;
      (3)   All property and street pavement lines;
      (4)   Location of all existing and proposed lighting standards, complete
with photometric diagram;
      (5)   Cut sheet of proposed lighting fixture.
(Ord. 1818, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VIII.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IX.   VACATIONS
      
X.   ZONING CHANGES
      
XI.   STREET ADDITIONS
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Accepting dedication of right-of-way for public road
                     purposes for a strip of land connecting the southernmost
                     end of Elsner Road with U.S. Route 45 being that part of
683      12-7-70     the northwest quarter of section 28, township 35 north,
                     range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, and that
                     part of the northeast quarter of section 29, township 35
                     north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
                     Dedicating a portion of a certain street known as Colorado
749      2-7-72      Avenue, being that part of the northeast quarter of the
                     northwest quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range
                     12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
                     Amending Ordinance No. 2987 to allow for land dedication
                     in lieu of a cash donation in condition 1 of the major
3040     7-18-16     planned unit development (PUD) change for the Frankfort
                     Commons II Development, southeast corner of St. Francis
                     Road and LaGrange Road.
                     Authorizing acceptance and approval of a plat of
3272     11-2-20     dedication to the village for certain property located at
                     One North White Street (affects PIN 19-09-27-100-040-
                     0000).
3278     12-7-20     Designating St. Peters United Church of Christ as a
                     Historic Landmark.
                     Authorizing approval and acceptance of a plat of
3308     7-19-21     dedication to the village for certain property located at
                     8559 W. North Avenue (affects PIN 19-09-23-100-014-0000).
3379     11-7-22     Designating property located at 204 Hickory Street as a
                     historic landmark.
                     Authorizing approval and acceptance of a plat of
3397     5-1-23      dedication to the village for public street and public
                     utilities for certain property (affects PINs 19-09-22-200-
                     004-0000; 19-09-22-200-006-000; 19-09-23-100-002-000)
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
295   5-4-14 Annexing territory beginning at the center of section 28 in township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being lots 21 to 25 inclusive, in Arthur T. McIntosh
462   9-19-  and Com-pany’s Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest
      55     quarter of section 22 in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
      7-16-  Annexing certain territory being blocks 17, 18, 19, and 20, except public
466   56     service and highway right-of-way in Bowen’s Addition to the village, in section
             28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      7-16-  Annexing certain territory being all that part of the west half of the
467   56     northwest quarter lying north and south of the Indian Boundary Line of section
             27 in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the west three-fourths of the
             northwest quarter of section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
472   4-1-57 Principal Meridian; and the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
             section 27 and that part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
             section 27.
      10-7-  Annexing certain territory being the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter
479   57     of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian
             (except that part dedicated for highway purposes).
480   10-21- Annexing certain territory commencing at the northwest corner of the southwest
      57     quarter of section 27.
      9-15-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the west three-fourths of the
485   58     northwest quarter of section 28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
491   7-20-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the north half of section 21,
      59     township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter
             of section 27 and that part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter
             of section 27 lying south of the right-of-way of the Elgin, Joliet, and Eastern
492   7-20-  Railway Company, all in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
      59     Meridian; and that part of the 100-foot wide operating right-of- way of the
             Elgin, Joliet, and Eastern Railway Company situated in the southwest quarter of
             the northwest quarter of section 27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
      11-2-  Annexing certain territory being the south 660 feet of the west half of the
497   59     southwest quarter of the northwest quarter in section 22, in township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian
             Annexing certain territory commencing at a point on the center line of section
498   11-2-  21, west of the intersection of the east line of section 21 with the center
      59     line of said section, located in the northeast quarter of section 21 in
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      1-18-  Annexing certain territory beginning 40 feet south and 33 feet west of the
504   60     northeast corner of the southeast quarter of section 28, township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      2-15-  Annexing certain territory being all that part of the west three-quarters of
505   60     the northwest quarter of section 28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
      2-15-  Annexing certain territory being the 100-foot right-of-way of the Elgin,
506   60     Joliet, and Eastern Railway Company as located in the northwest quarter of
             section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      2-15-  Annexing certain territory being the north half of the southwest quarter of
507   60     section 28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
508   2-15-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the northeast quarter of section
      60     21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      5-16-  Annexing certain territory commencing at the intersection of the east line of
510   60     section 21 with the center line of said section, the northeast quarter of
             section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      10-3-  Annexing certain territory being the east 385 feet of the south 226.5 feet of
517   60     the west half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section 22,
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the west three-fourths of the
             northwest quarter of section 28 lying north and west of the center line of
      11-7-  Highway Route U.S. 45 and lying north of the south line of Nebraska Avenue, in
520   60     township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian; and that part
             of the northwest quarter of section 28, lying westerly of the northwesterly
             line of Highway Route No. 45, and lying between the south line of Nebraska
             Avenue, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the south ten acres of that part of the
526   8-7-61 northwest quarter of section 28 lying westerly of the center line of U.S. Route
             45, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      11-19- Annexing certain territory being the north half of the north half of the
537   62     southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 27, township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      11-1-  Annexing certain territory being the north 835 feet of the east half of the
563   65     southeast quarter of section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
      5-16-  Annexing certain territory being all that part of the northwest quarter of the
573   66     northwest quarter north and south of the Indian Boundary Line of fractional
             section 27 in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      11-7-  Annexing certain territory being the west half of the southwest quarter of
579   66     section 21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
      4-17-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the west three-quarters of the
580   67     northwest quarter of section 28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being all of block 16 except the south 150 feet
582   6-5-67 conveyed to the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois of Bowen’s addition
             to the village located in section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of U.S. Route
             No. 45 in the county, beginning at the point where the northern boundary of the
592   7-17-  present village limits, intersect with the right-of-way, running north along
      67     and including all of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects with the
             northernmost boundary of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects with
             the northernmost boundary of the right-of- way of St. Francis Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of U.S. Route
      11-20- No. 30 in the county, beginning at the point where the eastern boundary of the
593   67     present village limits, intersect with right-of-way running east along and
             including all of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects with the
             easternmost boundary of the right-of- way of Pfeiffer Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Sauk Trail
      12-4-  in the county, beginning at the point where the eastern boundary of the present
594   67     village limits, intersect with right-of-way, running southeast along and
             including all of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects with the
             easternmost boundary of the right-of- way of Pfeiffer Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Center
      11-20- Road in the county, beginning at the point when the southern boundary of the
595   67     present village limits, intersect with the right-of-way, running south along
             and including all of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects with the
             southernmost boundary of the right-of- way of Steger Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of U.S. Route
      12-4-  No. 45 in the county, beginning at the point where the western boundary of the
596   67     present village limits, intersect with the right-of-way, running southwest
             along and including all of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects
             with the southernmost boundary of the right-of-way of Laraway Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of U.S. Route
      12-4-  No. 30 in the county, beginning at the point where the western boundary of the
597   67     present village limits, intersect with the right-of-way, running west along and
             including all of the right-of-way to the point where it intersects with the
             westernmost boundary of the right-of-way of Wolf Road.
      12-4-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the east half of the southeast
598   67     quarter of section 29, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
600   2-19-  Annexing certain territory being the south 23 acres of the northwest quarter of
      68     section 34, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the north 330 feet of the south 2,322.2 feet
601   4-1-68 of the west 1,320 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being lots 12, 13, 14, and 41 in Arthur T. McIntosh
608   9-9-68 and Company’s Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest
             quarter of section 22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the northwest fractional quarter
610   1-20-  of section 27, south of the Indian Boundary Line, in township 35 north, range
      69     12, commencing at the northeast corner of lot 34 in Unit No. Five of
             Krusemark’s Addition to the village.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the south half of the northeast
618   4-7-69 quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
      8-18-  Annexing certain territory being lot 37 in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s
626   69     Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section
             22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Sauk Trail
      10-20- in the county, beginning at a point where it intersects with the easternmost
637   69     boundary of the right-of- way of Pfeiffer Road running southeast along and
             including all of the right-of- way to a point where it intersects with the
             center line of Harlem Avenue in the county.
      11-3-  Annexing certain territory being the southeast quarter of the southwest
640   69     quarter, and the west half of the southeast quarter of section 28, township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      2-16-  Annexing certain territory being the west 331 feet of block 16 in Bowen’s
646   70     Addition to the village, in section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the Elgin, Joliet, and Eastern
647   2-16-  Railroad right-of-way commencing at the east line of the highway known as U.S.
      70     Route 45, running west to the western section line of section 28, all in
             section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the south 17 feet of lot two, and lots three,
654   4-6-70 four, and eight in Osgood’s Subdivision of the south part of the southwest
             quarter of section 15 in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the south 382 feet of the north 1,217 feet of
658   5-4-70 the east half of the southeast quarter of section 28, township 35 north, range
             12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the south 633.5 feet of the east half of the
659   5-4-70 southeast quarter of section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
      10-19- Annexing certain territory being lot 36 in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s
674   70     Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section
             22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      10-19- Annexing certain territory being the south half acre of that part of the west
675   70     half of the northwest quarter of section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east
             of the third Principal Meridian.
681   12-7-  Annexing certain territory being part of the northeast quarter of section 29,
      70     township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being lot 16 in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s
686   2-1-71 Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section
             22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      2-15-  Annexing certain territory being lot 15 in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s
688   71     Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section
             22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the south half of the north half of the
693   3-1-71 southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 27 in township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the northwest quarter of section
697   4-19-  27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
      71     commencing on the north line of the Public Service Company right-of-way and the
             present easterly limits of the village.
      2-15-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the east 80 acres of the
698   71     southeast fractional quarter of section 28, township 35 north, range 12 east of
             the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Laraway
703   6-7-71 Road in the county, beginning at the westernmost boundary of the right-of- way
             of Wolf Road in the county.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of the
704   6-7-71 Frankfort Township-New Lenox Township Town Line Road in the county, beginning
             at the southernmost boundary of the right-of-way of Laraway Road in the county.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of the Penn
705   6-7-71 Central Company right-of-way, formerly the New York Central Railroad Company
             right-of-way, in the county.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of 116th
             Avenue, also known as Owen Road, in the county, beginning at the southernmost
706   6-7-71 boundary of the right-of- way of the Penn Central Company right-of-way,
             formerly known as the New York Central Railroad company right-of-way, in the
             county.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Steger
707   6-7-71 Road in the county, beginning at the easternmost boundary of the right-of- way
             of the Frankfort Township-New Lenox Township Town Line Road in the county.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of U.S. Route
708   6-7-71 No. 30 in the counties of Will and Cook, beginning at the easternmost boundary
             of Pfeiffer Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Ridgeland
709   6-7-71 Avenue in Cook County, beginning where the southern right-of- way line of U.S.
             Route No. 30 intersects with said Ridgeland Avenue.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Sauk Trail
710   6-7-71 in the counties of Cook and Will, beginning at the westernmost boundary of the
             right-of-way of Ridgeland Avenue in Cook County.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Harlem
711   6-7-71 Avenue in the counties of Will and Cook, beginning at the southernmost boundary
             of the right-of-way of Sauk Trail in the counties of Cook and Will.
             Annexing certain territory being the south five acres of the east half of lot
716   6-7-71 nine in School Trustee’s Subdivision of section 16, township 35 north, range 12
             east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being part of the west half of the northeast quarter
717   6-7-71 of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the west 600 feet of the east 932.31 feet
             measured on the north line of lot 13, in the School Trustee’s Subdivision of
             section 16, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
733   11-15- Meridian; the west 600 feet of the east 2257.31 feet of the northwest quarter
      71     as measured on the north line of section 21, in township 35 north, range 12
             east of the third Principal Meridian; and the east half of the southeast
             quarter of lot 13, in School Trustee’s Subdivision of part of section 16, in
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the west 330 feet of the northwest quarter of
             section 34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
      12-6-  Meridian, that part of the northwest quarter of section 34 lying north of the
735   71     northerly line of Industry Avenue, all in township 35 north, range 12 east of
             the third Principal Meridian; and the north 66 feet of the south 696.20 feet of
             the west 2,575 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the south 7.89 feet of the east half of the
             southeast quarter of lot 13 in School Trustees Subdivision of part of section
             16, the north 700.84 feet of the west 307.31 feet of the east 1,657.31 feet of
737   12-6-  the northwest quarter of section 21, and the west 427 feet of the east 1,350
      71     feet of that part of the northwest quarter of section 21 lying north of the
             centerline of Colorado Avenue extended west in Lincoln Meadows Unit No. Two
             Subdivision, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of the Penn
740   1-3-72 Central Company right-of-way, formerly the New York Central Railway company
             right-of-way, beginning at the east line of the right- of-way of the road known
             as Wolf Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Laraway
742   1-3-72 Road beginning at the east line of the right-of-way of the road known as Wolf
             Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of 116th
743   1-3-72 Avenue also known as Owens Road beginning at the southernmost boundary line of
             the right-of-way of Laraway Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Wolf Road
744   1-3-72 beginning at the southernmost boundary line of the right-of-way of Laraway
             Road.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of the
745   1-3-72 highway known as U.S. Route 45 beginning at the southernmost boundary line of
             the right-of-way of Laraway Road.
746   1-3-72 Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Pfeiffer
             Road beginning at the south line of the right-of-way of U.S. Route 30.
             Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of Harlem
747   1-3-72 Ave. in the counties of Will and Cook, beginning at the south line of the
             right- of-way of U.S. Route 30 in the counties.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the northeast quarter of the
748   2-7-72 northwest quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian, commencing at the northeast corner of lot one, block five,
             in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Lincoln Meadows Unit No. two.
             Annexing certain property being the south 630 feet of that part of the
750   2-7-72 northwest quarter of section 22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that part of the east half of the northeast
754   2-7-72 quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
      3-20-  Annexing certain territory being the north 300 feet of the south 1,500 feet of
758   72     the east 300 feet of the east half of the northeast quarter of section 21 in
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
771   7-24-  Annexing certain territory being that portion of the right-of-way of 84th
      72     Avenue, beginning at the north line of the right-of-way of U.S. Route 30.
772   7-24-  Annexing certain territory being part of the northwest quarter, section 23,
      72     township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the east 660 feet of the north 330 feet of the
             south 1,992.20 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35
775   8-7-72 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, and the west 660 feet of
             the north 330 feet of the south 1,992.20 feet of the northwest quarter of
             section 34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being the north 363 feet of the south 1,332.20 feet
776   8-7-72 of the east 720 feet of the west 1320 feet of the northwest quarter of section
             34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      9-11-  Annexing certain territory being the east 660 feet of the west 1,320 feet of
778   72     the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
      9-11-  Annexing certain territory being the north 330 feet of the south 1,662.20 feet
779   72     of the west 1,320 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      9-11-  Annexing certain territory being the north 300 feet of the south 678.2 feet of
780   72     the west 726 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      9-11-  Annexing certain territory being the north 525 feet of the south 903.2 feet of
781   72     the east 800 feet of the west 1,526 feet of the northwest quarter of section
             34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      9-11-  Annexing certain territory being the east 330 feet of the west 1,716 feet of
782   72     the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
      12-4-  Annexing certain territory being the north 525 feet of the south 903.20 feet,
795   72     of the northwest quarter of Section 34, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
      12-4-  Annexing certain territory being the north 225 feet of the south 903.20 feet of
796   72     the west 726 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      12-18- Annexing certain territory being the east 330 feet of the west 660 feet of the
798   72     northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
      4-16-  Annexing certain territory being the north 363 feet of the south 1,332.20 feet
813   73     of the west 600 feet of the northwest quarter of section 34, in township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain territory being that part abutting the westerly right-of-way
815   5-7-73 line of Route No. 45 as laid out and abutting the westerly line (Center Line of
             old Highway) of that part of the south fractional half of section 32 lying
             north and south of the Indian Boundary line.
822   6-4-73 Annexing certain territory being part of the northwest quarter of section 21,
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      6-18-  Annexing certain lands being part of the northwest fractional quarter lying
824   73     north and south of the Old Indian Boundary Line, of section 27, township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being part of the east half of the northwest quarter of
825   7-2-73 section 27, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
826   7-2-73 Annexing certain lands commencing at the northwest corner of Unit eight of
             Krusemark’s Addition to the village.
      10-1-  Annexing certain lands being lot 21 of Bowen’s Addition to the village
838   73     subdivision of the northwest order of section 28, township 35 north, range 12
             east of the third Principal Meridian.
      11-19- Annexing certain territory being the west 650 feet of that part of the
843   73     southwest quarter of section 25, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the northeast quarter of section 21,
845   12-17- township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at
      73     the northeast corner of Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Lincoln Meadows, Unit
             Two, a subdivision in section 21.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the northeast quarter of section 21,
846   12-17- township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at
      73     the northeast corner of Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Lincoln Meadows, Unit
             Two, a subdivision in section 21.
             Annexing certain lands being the south half of the north half of the east half
      12-17- of lot eight in School Trustees Subdivision of section 16, township 35 north,
847   73     range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian; and the north quarter of the
             east half of lot eight in School Trustees Subdivision of section 16, township
             35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the southeast quarter of the
858   3-4-74 northwest quarter of section 27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian, commencing at the point of intersection of the centerline
             of State Aid Route No. 47 (Sauk Trail).
             Annexing certain lands being the east 275 feet of the north 792 feet of the
859   3-18-  northwest fractional quarter north and south of the Indian Boundary Line except
      74     the east 40 acres thereof, in section 33, township 35 north, range 12 east of
             the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the north half of the south half of the east half
860   4-1-74 of lot nine in School Trustees Subdivision of section 16, township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of Bowen Street as presently dedicated
             and used, a 66 foot right-of-way in section 22, township 35 north, range 12
877   11-21- east of the third Principal Meridian; and land commencing at a point on the
      74     north line of lot 13 in the subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of
             section 22, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being lot 13 in the School Trustee’s Subdivision of
883   4-21-  section 16, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian;
      75     and the northwest quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of
             the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the north 100 feet of the south 925 feet of the
             west 212 feet of the west half of the southwest quarter of the northwest
             quarter of section 22, and the east 38 feet of the west 250 feet of the north
887   6-16-  100 feet of the south 925 feet of the west half of the southwest quarter of the
      75     northwest quarter of section 22, both in township 35 north, range 12 east of
             the third Principal Meridian; and the west 50 feet of the south 825 feet of the
             west half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section 22, in
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      10-6-  Annexing certain lands being lot A in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company Kean
900   75     Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section 22,
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the north half of the south half of the east half
      11-3-  of lot eight, the south quarter of the east half of lot eight, the north
901   75     quarter of the east half of lot nine, and the south half of the north half of
             the east half of lot nine, all in School Trustees Subdivision of section 16,
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      11-17- Annexing certain lands being the southwest quarter of lot 14 in School Trustees
902   75     Subdivision of section 16, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
      12-1-  Annexing certain lands commencing at the point of intersection of the center
903   75     line of State Aid Route. No. 47 (Sauk Trail) and the east line of the west
             558.98 feet of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter.
      9-20-  Annexing certain lands being that part of the south half of lot 14 in School
926   76     Trustees Subdivision of section 16, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the northeast quarter of section 21,
941   4-18-  township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at
      77     the northeast corner of Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Lincoln Meadows, Unit
             Two, a subdivision in section 21.
             Annexing certain lands being the east 90 feet of the west 558.98 feet of that
943   5-2-77 part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 27, township
             35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the north 165 feet of the south 825 feet of the
945   5-16-  west 530 feet of the west half of the southwest quarter of the northwest
      77     quarter of section 22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the north half of section 27,
947   6-6-77 township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, beginning at
             the northeast corner of Unit No. Nine of Krusemark’s Addition to the village.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the southeast quarter of the
      9-19-  northwest quarter of section 27, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
958   77     third Principal Meridian, beginning at the point of intersection of the center
             line of State Aid Route No. 47 (Sauk Trail), as now located, and the east line
             of the west 558.98 feet of southeast quarter of the northwest quarter.
             Annexing certain lands being the west 330 feet of the south 660 feet of the
      10-17- east half of the southwest quarter of section 27, township 35 north, range 12
964   77     east of the third Principal Meridian; and the east 330 feet of the west 660
             feet of the south 660 feet of the east half of the southwest quarter of section
             27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being Cambridge Subdivision, a resubdivision of lots 38,
966   1-16-  43, D, E, and F in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Kean Avenue Estates, a
      78     subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section 22, in township 35
             north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the north half of section 27,
978   5-15-  township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, beginning at
      78     the southeast corner of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
             section 27.
      7-17-  Annexing certain lands being the east 627 feet of the north 792 feet of the
984   78     northwest fractional quarter, north and south of the Indian Boundary Line, of
             section 33, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
      11-6-  section 27, and that part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of
992   78     section 27 lying southerly of the southerly right-of-way of the Elgin, Joliet,
             and Eastern Railroad, all in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the north 300 feet of the south 1,500 feet of the
             east 300 feet of the east half of the northeast quarter of section 21, in
994   11-20- township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian; and that part
      78     of the northeast quarter of section 21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of
             the third Principal Meridian, commencing at the northeast corner of the
             northeast quarter of section 21.
1034  2-4-80 Annexing certain real property being the New Frankfort Settlement.
      11-17- Annexing certain lands in the southeast quarter of section 20, township 35
1049  80     north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at the
             northeast corner of southeast quarter.
1080  8-16-  Annexing certain lands being part of the northeast quarter of section 21,
      82     township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1098  10-3-  Annexing certain lands being the east half of section 20, township 35 north,
      83     range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1130  3-4-85 Annexing certain lands being part of the southeast quarter of section 20, in
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1155  4-7-86 Annexing certain lands being part of the south half of the northeast quarter of
             section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the north 700 feet of the west 330 feet of the
1162  8-18-  northwest fractional quarter, north and south of the Indian Boundary Line,
      86     except the east 40 acres thereof of section 33, township 35 north, range 12
             east of the third Principal Meridian.
      8-25-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the northwest quarter of section
1167  86     22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
             commencing at the southwest corner of the northwest quarter of section 22.
             Annexing certain lands being the north 660 feet of the west half of the
1187  9-9-87 southwest quarter of the northwest quarter, in section 22 of township 35 north,
             range 12 of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of lots five through seven and 9 though
1188  9-9-87 23 in Osgood’s subdivision of the south part of the southwest quarter of
             section 15, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being lots one and two in Osgood’s Subdivision of the
1189  9-9-87 south part of the southwest quarter of section 15, in township 35 north, range
             12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1192  10-5-  Annexing certain lands being the north half of the southwest quarter of section
      87     34, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1194  10-5-  Annexing the following lands:
      87
      That part of the northeast quarter of section 21, in township 35 north, range 12 east
(1)   of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at the northeast corner of the northeast
      quarter of section 21.
      The north 300 feet of the south 1,500 feet of the east 300 feet of the east half of
(2)   the northeast quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
      Principal Meridian.
      The south 150 feet of the north 300 feet of the south 1,500 feet of the east 300 feet
(3)   of the east half of the northeast quarter of section 21, in township 35 north, range
      12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1196  11-2-  Annexing certain lands being that part of the southeast quarter of section 20,
      87     beginning on the south line of the southeast quarter.
1199  12-7-  Annexing certain lands being the southeast quarter of section 24, township 35
      87     north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      12-7-  Annexing certain lands being the north half of the east half of the northeast
1200  87     quarter of section 36, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the east 102.18 feet of the west 468.98 feet of
1207  3-7-88 that part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 27,
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1213  5-2-88 Annexing certain lands being the east 350 feet of the northwest quarter of
             section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
      5-16-  Annexing certain lands being lots 152 and 153, in Arthur T. McIntosh’s Second
1214  88     Addition to Lincoln Estates, a subdivision of part of the east half of section
             23, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1224  7-18-  Annexing certain lands to the village.
      88
1227  8-15-  Annexing certain lands to the village.
      88
1233  9-6-88 Annexing a tract of land lying in the northeast quarter of section 21, township
             35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing land being the north 142.4 feet of the south 800 feet of the east 250
             feet of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section 21, township
1234  9-6-88 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian; and the north 282.2
             feet of the west 350 feet of the south 800 feet of the east 600 feet of the
             southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section 21, township 35 north,
             range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing land commencing at the southeast corner of the west half of the
1235  9-6-88 southwest quarter of section 21 in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
1236  9-6-88 Annexing land being part of the north half of the northwest quarter of section
             22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing land being lots B and C in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Kean
1237  9-6-88 Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section 22,
             township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing land being that part of the west half of the northwest quarter of
1238  9-6-88 section 27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
             beginning at a point on the south right- of-way line of Sauk Trail at the
             northeast corner of the Church Addition to the village.
1239  9-6-88 Annexing land being part of the east half of the northwest quarter of section
             27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1240  9-6-88 Annexing land being that part of the east half of the northwest quarter of
             section 27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing land being the south 20 acres of the southwest quarter of the
1241  9-6-88 southwest quarter of section 27, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the
             third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing land being part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
1242  9-6-88 section 28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
             Meridian.
1244  10-17- Annexing a tract of land lying in the northeast quarter of section 21, township
      88     35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1245  10-17- Annexing land being part of the southwest quarter of section 21, township 35
      88     north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1246  10-17- Annexing land being part of the east half of the southwest quarter of section
      88     21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1247  10-17- Annexing land being part of the east half of the southwest quarter of section
      88     21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being the west 650 feet of that part of the southwest
1256  4-3-89 quarter of section 25, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian.
             Annexing certain lands being that part of the northwest quarter of the
1259  4-3-89 southwest quarter of section 26, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
             Principal Meridian, commencing at the southwest corner of the northwest
             quarter.
      9-29-  Annexing Parcel I, a certain part of the southeast 1/4 of Section 15, Township
1276  89     35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian; and Parcel II, Lot 24
             in Osgood’s Subdivision.
             Annexing Parcel I, a certain part of the West fraction of the northwest
             fractional quarter south of the Indian Boundary Line of Section 23, Township 35
             North, Range 12 east of the Third Principal Meridian; Parcel II, certain
             territory north and south of the Indian Boundary Line of Section 22, Township
1277  9-29-  35 North, Range 12 east of the Third Principal Meridian; Parcel III, a certain
      89     part of the northwest fractional quarter north of the Indian Boundary Line of
             Section 23, Township 35 North, Range 12 east of the Third Principal Meridian;
             Parcel IV, a certain part of the southeast quarter of Section 22, Township 35
             North, Range 12 east of the Third Principal Meridian, lying northwesterly of
             the Indian Boundary Line and lying north of the centerline of Lincoln Highway.
1278  9-29-  Annexing certain tract lying north of U.S. Route 30.
      89
1279  9-29-  Annexing certain territory in the east half of the northeast quarter of Section
      89     15, Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian.
      9-29-  Annexing certain Parcel I, a certain part of the east half of the northwest
1280  89     quarter of Section 15, Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal
             Meridian; and Parcel II, in the same, except where used as cemetery.
1281  9-29-  Annexing a certain tract of the east half of the northeast quarter of Section
      89     15, Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian.
      9-29-  Annexing Parcel I, the south 60 acres of the southwest quarter of Section 11,
1282  89     Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian; and Parcel
             II, the north half of the northwest quarter of Section 14, in same.
1283  10-16- Annexing a certain part of a tract lying south of U.S. Route 30 (Lincoln
      89     Highway).
1288  12-28- Annexing a certain part of Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third
      89     Principal Meridian (Prestwick Subdivision Annexation).
1301  6-18-  Annexing certain lands to the village.
      90
1303  6-18-  Annexing certain lands to the village.
      90
1320  9-17-  Annexing certain lands to the village.
      90
1344  4-15-  Authorizing annexation agreement for certain real estate owned by RWS
      91     Development Corporation described in said agreement.
1375  4-20-  Authorizing an annexation agreement between the village and Cole Taylor Bank
      92     for Weiland Farm property.
             Annexing Parcel I, the southeast fractional quarter of Section 22, both north
1376  4-20-  and south of the Indian Boundary Line; and Parcel II, the southwest quarter of
      92     Section 22 in Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal
             Meridian.
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1391  9-8-92 the American National Bank and Trust Company and Frankfort Ventures, Inc. for
             certain property described in the agreement (Sybaris).
      3-15-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1406  93     Marquette National Bank for certain property described in the agreement (Hunter
             Woods Estates, First Edition).
1407  3-15-  Annexing certain lands to the village (Hunter Woods Estates, First Edition).
      93
1430  10-4-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
      93     Mostar Ltd. for certain property described in the agreement.
1431  10-4-  Annexing certain lands to the village (Mostar Ltd.).
      93
      2-21-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1493  95     the Board of Education for certain property described in the agreement (School
             District Number 157C).
      2-21-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1494  95     Brett Rizzi for certain property described in the agreement (Frankfort Garden
             Center).
1495  2-21-  Annexing certain lands to the village (Frankfort Garden Center).
      95
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1497  3-6-95 Amoco Oil Company and Archibald Candy Corporation for certain property
             described in the agreement.
1498  3-6-95 Annexing the North 270 feet of the East 320 feet of the Southeast Quarter of
             Section 24, Township 35 North, Range 12 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
1507  4-3-95 Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
             John and Ilene Semanic for certain property described in the agreement.
1508  4-3-95 Annexing certain lands to the village (Semanic property).
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1516  5-5-95 NSLB and O’Donnell Construction for certain property described in the
             agreement.
             Annexing the South 165 feet of the North 382 feet of the East 264 feet of the
1517  5-5-95 East three-quarters of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29, in Township 35
             North, Range 12, East of the Third Principal Meridian.
1523  6-8-95 Annexing certain lands to the village (School district number 157C).
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1529  8-7-95 James and Deborah Vanderlaan for certain property described in the agreement
             (Lawndale subdivision).
1530  8-7-95 Annexing certain lands to the village (Lawndale subdivision).
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1533  9-5-95 the Franklin Public Library for certain property described in the agreement
             (Frankfort Public Library District).
1534  9-5-95 Annexing certain land to the village (Frankfort Public Library District).
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1558  3-4-96 Michael Hargens and Richard Wiesch for certain property described in the
             agreement (Harvest Ridge Subdivision).
1559  3-4-96 Annexing certain land to the village (Harvest Ridge Subdivision).
      5-20-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1575  96     the First National Bank of Evergreen Park as trustee for Trust #13809, as owner
             for certain property described in the agreement (Settler’s Pond Subdivision).
1576  5-20-  Annexing certain land to the village (Settler’s Pond Subdivision).
      96
1597  11-18- Clarifying Ord. 1098 annexing certain lands to the village (Butternut Creek
      96     Woods Subdivision Unit No 1 through 6).
      12-16- Authorizing the execution of a pre- annexation agreement between the village
1606  96     and Pinnacle Bank as Trustee under Trust #1116, as owner for certain property
             located in the village (Gas City - Harlem Avenue).
1609  2-18-  Annexing certain land to the village (Sangmeister - Laraway & Wolf Roads).
      97
1612  2-18-  Annexing certain land to the village (Homestead Subdivision - Wolf & Laraway
      97     Roads).
1614  2-18-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
      97     American Islamic Association, Inc. (American Islamic - St. Francis Road).
1615  2-18-  Annexing certain land to the village (American Islamic - St. Francis Road)
      97
1617  2-18-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
      97     Walter Mark (Mark Property - Laraway Road).
1618  2-18-  Annexing certain land to the village (Walter Mark Property - Laraway Road).
      97
1622  3-17-  Annexing certain surrounded territory to the village (9029 W. Lincoln Highway).
      97
1623  4-7-97 Annexing certain land to the village (Hughes & Duggan Property - Rt. 45).
1625  4-7-97 Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
             Edward Tracy (Golden Gate Nursery - Rt. 45).
1626  4-7-97 Annexing certain land to the village (Golden Gate Nursery - Rt. 45).
1629  4-21-  Annexing certain land into the village (Gates Property - Wolf Road.)
      97
1630  4-21-  Annexing certain land into the village (Orseske Property - 22744 S. Wolf Road.)
      97
1634  6-2-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Sandalwood Subdivision - Northwest
             Corner of Laraway and Wolf Roads.)
1634- 6-16-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
A     97     Sandalwood, Inc., as petitioners for certain property located in the village
             (Sandalwood Subdivision - Laraway and Wolf Roads).
      6-16-  Authorizing the execution of a pre- annexation agreement between the village
1636  97     and Art Mark and Mark Younglove as petitioners for certain property located in
             the village (Mark Property - 10622 Steger Road).
1638  7-7-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Village of Frankfort Regional WWTP
             Property).
1640  7-7-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Trinity Farm - Steger Road).
1644  8-4-97 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Broadacre
             Management Co. (Walnut Creek Subdivision - St. Francis Road)
1645  8-4-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Walnut Creek Subdivision - St. Francis
             Road)
1648  9-8-97 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Perrin,
             L.L.C. (Swanson Tools/Bachman Imports - 211 E. Ontario).
1649  9-8-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Swanson Tools/Bachman Imports - 211 E.
             Ontario).
1652  9-8-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Marczali Property - East of Rt. 45
             between St. Francis and La Porte Roads).
1653  9-8-97 Annexing certain land into the village (Hughes & Duggan Property - Rt. 45).
1664  11-3-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Joseph and
      97     Lisa Fortune (Fortune Property - 8346 West Lincoln Highway).
1665  11-3-  Annexing certain land into the village (Fortune Property - 8346 West Lincoln
      97     Highway).
1668  11-3-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Loretta L.
      97     Jordan (Valley View Motel - 10957 West Lincoln Highway).
1669  11-3-  Annexing certain land into the village (Valley View Motel - 10957 W. Lincoln
      97     Highway).
1675  12-15- Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Howard G.
      97     Ohlhausen (Southeast corner of Harlem Avenue and Laraway Road).
1676  12-15- Annexing certain land into the village (Southeast corner of Harlem Avenue and
      97     Laraway Road).
1677  12-15- Authorizing execution of pre-annexation agreement between village and Gas City,
      97     Ltd. (Gas City Property - Rt. 30 and Wolf Road).
1678  1-5-98 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Harris Bank
             Trust #189 (Auto Haus - 19915 S. LaGrange Road)
1679  1-5-98 Annexing certain land into the village (Auto Haus - 19915 S. LaGrange Road).
1687  2-2-98 Annexing certain land into the village (West Property - 300 ft. south of Rt. 30
             and east of the Gas City Property).
1688  2-2-98 Annexing certain land into the village (Gas City Property - Rt. 30 and Wolf
             Road).
1690  3-16-  Authorizing annexation agreement between village and Newbrook Group, Inc.
      98     (Newbrook Subdivision - 116th Avenue, North of Laraway).
1691  3-16-  Annexing certain land into village (Newbrook Subdivision—116th Avenue, North of
      98     Laraway).
1695  4-6-98 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and William Weber
             (Weber Property—108th Avenue).
1696  4-6-98 Annexing certain land into the village (Weber Property—108th Avenue).
1698  4-6-98 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Frederick Eul
             (Eul Property—7800 West Lincoln Highway).
1699  4-6-98 Annexing certain property into village (Eul Property—7800 West Lincoln
             Highway).
1714  9-8-98 Annexing certain property into the village (Frankfort Prairie Park).
1717  10-5-  Annexing certain property into the village (422 Spruce).
      98
1732  3-1-99 Authorizing execution of pre-annexation agreement for property located at 23050
             South LaGrange Road.
1733  3-15-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement for certain property into the
      99     village (Rizzi Property—8215 West Lincoln Highway).
1734  3-15-  Annexing certain property into the village (Rizzi Property—8215 West Lincoln
      99     Highway).
1746  7-6-99 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Trust #1-2712
             (Plank Trail Estates Subdivision—7405 West Lincoln Highway).
1747  7-6-99 Annexing certain property into the village (Plank Trail Estates
             Subdivision—7405 West Lincoln Highway).
1754  8-2-99 De-annexing Malone & Maloney Property—88th Avenue and 198th.
1759  10-4-  Annexing certain property into the village (The Sybaris—Rt. 30).
      99
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1780  2-7-00 Trust # 97-1757, (Lakeview Estates Subdivision— southwest corner of 80th Avenue
             and Laraway Road).
1781  2-7-00 Annexing certain land into the village (Lakeview Estates Subdivision—southwest
             corner of 80th Avenue and Laraway Road).
      3-20-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1786  00     Trust 6468 and Slager Development (Stonebridge Valley Subdivision—Laraway Road,
             west of 116th).
1787  3-20-  Annexing certain land into the village (Stonebridge Valley Subdivision—Laraway
      00     Road, west of 116th).
1788  3-20-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
      00     Trust 74-2693 and William McEnery (Gas City— U.S. Route 45 and Laraway Road).
1789  3-20-  Annexing certain land into the village (Gas City—U.S. Route 45 and Laraway
      00     Road).
1800  5-15-  Annexing certain land into the village (Huffstutler—21239 S. 88th Avenue).
      00
      12-18- Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and an
1834  00     association of Franciscan Sisters of the Sacred Heart (St. Francis Woods
             property— 9201 St. Francis Road).
835   12-18- Annexing certain land into the village, (St. Francis Woods property—9201 St.
      00     Francis Road).
      12-18- Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1836  00     Michael L. Lemmons (Autumn Fields Subdivision— southeast corner of Wolf and
             Laraway Roads).
1837  12-18- Annexing certain property into the village (Autumn Fields Subdivision—southeast
      00     corner of Wolf and Laraway Roads).
1853  5-21-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
      01     Trust No. 1-5082 (Flagstone Subdivision—Scheer Road).
1854  5-21-  Annexing certain property into the village (Flagstone Subdivision—Scheer Road).
      01
1909  8-5-02 Annexing certain property into the village (Prairie Crossings—Southeast corner
             of Wolf and Rt. 30).
1911  8-5-02 Annexing certain property into the village (Cobblestone Walk
             subdivision—Southwest corner of Laraway Road and 116th Avenue).
1913  8-5-02 Annexing certain land into the village (Brookmeadow Estates
             subdivision—Northeast corner of Laraway and Scheer Roads).
1915  8-30-  Annexing certain land into the village (Bobbie Noonan—8717 W. Lincoln Highway).
      02
1917  8-5-02 Annexing certain land into the village (Settler’s Croft subdivision—Locust
             Street extended approximately 750 feet north of Colorado).
1925  8-19-  Annexing certain land into the village (Ashton Meadows subdivision—Northeast
      02     corner of Scheer and Steger Roads).
1938  11-4-  Amending Ordinance 1909.
      02
1952  3-3-03 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement (Church of Latter Day
             Saints—South Wolf Road).
1953  3-3-03 Annexing certain land into the village (Church of Latter Day Saints).
1966  4-28-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement (Lakeview South
      03     subdivision—northwest corner of Steger Road and 80th Avenue).
1967  4-28-  Annexing certain land into the village (Lakeview South subdivision).
      03
1968  4-28-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement (Misty Falls
      03     subdivision—southeast corner of Laraway Road and 116th Avenue).
1969  4-28-  Annexing certain land into the village (Misty Falls subdivision).
      03
      6-16-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Harper
1976  03     Business Park LLC (Harper Business Park—south of Laraway Road, west of Pfeiffer
             Road).
1977  6-16-  Annexing certain land into the village (Harper Business Park).
      03
      6-16-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and New Lenox
1978  03     State Bank Trust 2224 (Christakes property—Northwest and southwest corner of
             Route 45 and Lincolnway Lane).
1979  6-16-  Annexing certain land into the village (Christakes property).
      03
1983  6-16-  Annexing certain land into the village (Wolf & Laraway LLC Parcel—Northwest
      03     corner of Wolf and Laraway Roads).
2011  9-2-03 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Harris
             Bank Trust #469 (Donald Blume Parcel—23234 South Harlem Avenue).
2012  9-2-03 Annexing certain land into the village (Donald Blume Parcel).
2014  9-2-03 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Mark
             Ruane Trust (Mark Ruane Parcels—23564 South Harlem Avenue).
2015  9-2-03 Annexing certain land into the village (Mark Ruane Parcels).
2017  9-2-03 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and First
             United Bank Trust #2040 (Warning Parcel—23504 South Harlem Avenue).
2018  9-2-03 Annexing certain land into the village (Warning Parcel).
2020  9-2-03 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Marquette
             National Bank Trust #6238 (Vito Caprio Parcels—7348 West Stuenkel Road).
2021  9-2-03 Annexing certain land into the village (Vito Caprio Parcels).
2023  9-15-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Donald
      03     and Yvonne Blume (Blume residence—23234 South Harlem Avenue).
2024  9-15-  Annexing certain land into the village (Blume residence).
      03
2026  9-15-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and First
      03     United Bank Trust #1902 (Warning Parcels—23504 South Harlem Avenue).
2027  9-15-  Annexing certain land into the village (Warning Parcels).
      03
      2-17-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village, New Lenox
2051  04     State Bank Trust #2688 and Lincoln-Way Partners, Inc. (Vistana of Frankfort
             Subdivision—Northeast corner of Wolf Road and Steger Road).
2052  2-17-  Annexing certain land into the village (Northeast corner of Wolf Road and
      04     Steger Road).
2053  2-17-  Annexing certain land into the village (23050 S. La Grange Road).
      04
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Frankfort
2067  5-3-04 Elementary School District 157C (40-acre school site parcel—Northwest corner of
             Laraway Road and 116th Avenue).
2068  5-3-04 Annexing certain land into the village (Frankfort Elementary School District
             157C—Northwest corner of Laraway Road and 116th Avenue).
2070  5-3-04 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Harold
             and Mary Kay Keuch (5-acre parcel—223 S. Harlem Avenue).
2071  5-3-04 Annexing certain land into the village (Harold and Mary Kay Keuch parcel—23223
             S. Harlem Avenue).
      5-17-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and
2078  04     Highlander Development, Inc. (Five Oaks Subdivision—Southwest corner of Wolf
             and Steger Roads).
2079  5-17-  Annexing certain land into the village (Five Oaks Subdivision—Southwest corner
      04     of Wolf and Steger Roads).
      7-19-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and David and
2094  04     Daniel Bengtson, First Midwest Trust Company TUT 72-20720, dated July 18, 1988
             (Majestic Pines Subdivision—South of Laraway Road, east of Pfeiffer Road).
2095  7-19-  Annexing certain land into the village (Majestic Pines Subdivision—South of
      04     Laraway Road, east of Pfeiffer Road).
      7-19-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Gander
2097  04     Partners, LLC (Stonecreek Subdivision—East of Pfeiffer Road, between Laraway
             Road and Steger Road).
2098  7-19-  Annexing certain land into the village (Stonecreek Subdivision—East of Pfeiffer
      04     Road, between Laraway Road and Steger Road).
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village State Bank of
2100  7-19-  Countryside Trust #01-2279 and Indian Rock LLC (Dieter’s Subdivision—Between
      04     92nd Avenue and 93rd Avenue, south of Franklin and north of the Old Plank Road
             Trail).
      7-19-  Annexing certain land into the village (Dieter’s Subdivision—Between 92nd
2101  04     Avenue and 93rd Avenue, south of Franklin and north of the Old Plank Road
             Trail).
2136  12-20- Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Ironwood
      04     Drive Development, LLC (Charmaine Subdivision—890 and 895 Ironwood Drive).
2137  12-20- Annexing certain land into the village (Charmaine Subdivision—890 and 895
      04     Ironwood Drive).
2139  12-20- Annexing certain land into the village (Trinity Farms—9436 Steger Road).
      04
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village, Trust #8699,
2141  12-20- dated September 21, 1987, MB Financial Bank N.A., as successor trustee to South
      04     Holland Trust and Savings Bank and Gerald L. and Carol A. Hofbauer (Gerald L.
             and Carol A. Hofbauer Parcel—7119 W. Steger Road).
2142  12-20- Annexing certain land into the village (Gerald L. and Carol A. Hofbauer
      04     Parcel—7119 W. Steger Road).
2148  1-18-  Authorizing execution of pre- annexation agreement between the village and
      05     Founders Bank TUT (Saunoris commercial parcel—19600 S. Harlem Avenue).
2150  2-7-05 Authorizing execution of first amendment to annexation agreement between the
             village and Frankfort Elementary School District.
             Authorizing execution of pre- annexation agreement between the village, Bitter
2164  6-6-05 Creek Land Company, LLC and Equitarian Associates, LLC (Palomino Trace
             Subdivision—7528 W. Dralle Road).
             Authorizing execution of pre- annexation agreement between the village and
2165  6-6-05 Outback Properties (Erinwood II Subdivision—north of Dralle Road, between 80th
             Avenue and Pfeiffer Road).
2169  6-20-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Wayne and
      05     Phyllis Greene (5-acre parcel—7031 W. Steger Road).
2170  6-20-  Annexing certain land into the village (Wayne and Phyllis Greene Parcel—7031 W.
      05     Steger Road).
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Patrick
2179  8-1-05 and Mary Rose O’Gorman, Standard Bank and Trust Company, Trustee (St. Francis
             Estates Subdivision—west of LaPorte Meadows Subdivision and 88th Avenue).
             Annexing certain land into the village (Patrick and Mary Rose O’Gorman and
2180  8-1-05 Standard Bank and Trust Company, Trustee—St. Francis Estates Subdivision, west
             of LaPorte Meadows Subdivision and 88th Avenue).
2182  8-15-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Gateway
      05     II Phase III, LLC (Sara Springs Subdivision—Route 45, north of Steger Road).
2188  8-15-  Annexing certain land into the village (William J. McEnery—Lighthouse Pointe
      05     Townhomes, Tract 2 of Phase 3).
2195  9-6-05 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Gander
             Properties, LLC (Jackson Creek Subdivision—Janssen Farm, Steger Road).
2196  9-6-05 Annexing certain land into the village (Gander Partners, LLC—Janssen Farm,
             Steger Road).
      9-19-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and Bernilda
2200  05     Wille, Trustee—Bernilda Wille property, northeast corner of Harlem Avenue and
             Stuenkel Road).
2201  9-19-  Annexing certain land into the village (Bernilda Wille, Trustee—Bernilda Wille
      05     property, northeast corner of Harlem Avenue and Stuenkel Road).
2203  9-19-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and David and
      05     Jeanne M. Paul (22723 Scheer Road).
2204  9-19-  Annexing certain land into the village (David and Jeanne M. Paul—22723 Scheer
      05     Road).
2213  10-3-  De-annexing certain land from the village (Malone & Moloney property—south of
      05     LaPorte Avenue and east of 88th Avenue).
      11-7-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and James
2231  05     Malecky and First Midwest Bank, Trustee (Country Crossing North Subdivision,
             Phase 2—east side of Pfeiffer Road).
2232  11-7-  Annexing certain land into the village (James Malecky and First Midwest Bank,
      05     Trustee—Country Crossing North Subdivision, Phase 2).
      11-7-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between the village and James
2234  05     Malecky and First Midwest Bank, Trustee, Country Crossing South
             Subdivision—northeast corner of Pfeiffer Road and Laraway Road).
2235  11-7-  Annexing certain land into the village (James Malecky and First Midwest Bank,
      05     Trustee—Country Crossing South Subdivision).
2288  6-5-06 Pre-annexation agreement between the village and Marie Esch for property
             located at 24561 S. Harlem Avenue.
2289  6-5-06 Annexing property located at 24561 S. Harlem Avenue.
2297  6-19-  Annexing property located at the southwest corner of 93rd and Franklin Avenues.
      06
2298  6-19-  Annexing property located at the southwest corner of 93rd and Franklin Avenues.
      06
2325  10-16- Annexing property located at the northwest corner of U.S. Route 30 and
      06     Frankfort Square Road, Cappell Commons.
2326  10-16- Annexing property located at the northeast corner of Pfeiffer Road and Steger
      06     Road, Stone Creek Subdivision, Phase 3.
2327  10-16- Annexing property located at the northeast corner of Pfeiffer Road and Steger
      06     Road, Stone Creek Subdivision, Phase 3.
2348  1-8-07 Pre-annexation agreement between village and Prairie Bank and Trust for
             property at 7661 S. Harlem Avenue.
2349  1-8-07 Annexing property located at the northwest corner of Stuenkel Road and 88th
             Avenue.
2364  3-5-07 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Michelle
             Heckenast Revocable Living Trust for property located at 23023 S. Scheer Road.
2365  3-5-07 Annexing property located at 23023 S. Scheer Road.
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Bridgeview
2367  3-5-07 Bank Group for property located at the west 500 feet of the southwest corner of
             Steger Road and 88th Avenue.
2368  3-5-07 Annexing property located at the west 500 feet of the southwest corner of
             Steger Road and 88th Avenue.
2369  3-5-07 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Michael J.
             Marinier and Declan Hughes for property located at 23266 South 88th Avenue.
2370  3-5-07 Annexing property located at 23266 South 88th Avenue.
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Frankfort
2374  3-5-07 Park District for property located at the northwest corner of Laraway Road and
             80th Avenue.
2375  3-5-07 Annexing property located at northwest corner of Laraway Road and 80th Avenue.
2377  4-2-07 Annexing property located at northwest corner of Stuenkel Road and 88th Avenue.
2398  7-16-  Annexing property located at northwest corner of U.S. Route 30 and Frankfort
      07     Square Road.
2407  9-4-07 Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Jim and
             Christy Bertrand for property located at 21125 South 94th Avenue.
2408  9-4-07 Annexing property located at 21125 South 94th Avenue.
2438  1-22-  Amending the Waterstone Subdivision annexation agreement for the property
      08     located at the northwest corner of Stuenkel Road and 88th Avenue.
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Charles R.
2445  3-3-08 Jabaay, Jr. and Dean T. Vaundry for the CD & ME banquet facility property
             located at 23320 S. La Grange Road.
             Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Steger Road
      3-17-  Investment LLC for Tracts 1, 2, 3 and 4; Ronald P. and Cumanda A. Rose for
2447  08     Tract 5; Steger Road Investment II LLC and Steger Road Investment IIA LLC for
             Tract 6; Steger Road Investment III LLC for Tract 7; and Frankfort Pond
             Development LLC (South Point Business Park property).
2448  3-17-  Annexing Tracts 1 through 7 of the South Point Business Park property.
      08
      8-18-  Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and Frankfort
2501  08     Fire Protection District for the property located at the southeast corner of
             Wolf Road at the EJ&E Railroad tracks.
2502  8-18-  Annexing property located at the southeast corner of Wolf Road at the EJ & E
      08     Railroad tracks.
      11-17- Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and GNC
2533  08     Properties Inc. Unit VII, LLC and Garry and Nancy Cooper for property located
             at Charrington Drive and 92nd Avenue.
      11-17- Authorizing execution of annexation agreement between village and GNC
2534  08     Properties Inc. Unit I, LLC for property located at 21337 and 21325 93rd
             Avenue.
2535  11-17- Annexing property located at 21337 and 21325 93rd Avenue.
      08
2546  12-1-  Annexing property located at Charrington Drive and 92nd Avenue.
      08
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between village and the
2578  4-6-09 Frankfort Fire Protection District for the Frankfort Fire Station No. 4
             property, located at the northeast corner of Steger Road and 80th Avenue.
2579  4-6-09 Annexing Frankfort Fire Station No. 4 property located at the northeast corner
             of Steger Road and 80th Avenue.
2588  5-18-  Annexing Ivaldo Basso residence located on the north side of Ironwood Drive at
      09     the terminus of Butternut Trail.
2747  10-17- Annexing Robert D. Watson property located at 23262 S. 88th Avenue.
      11
             Authorizing execution of an annexation agreement between the village, Will and
2792  8-6-12 Cook Counties, and the Frankfort Public Library District for Frankfort Public
             Library District property located at 8731 West Lincoln Highway.
2793  8-6-12 Annexing Frankfort Public Library District property located at 8731 West
             Lincoln Highway.
      8-19-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
2858  13     Chicago Title Land Trust Co. Tut 12407 for property located at 23953 S. Harlem
             Avenue.
2859  8-19-  Annexing the C. Ted Nelson residence located at 23953 S. Harlem Avenue.
      13
2887  1-6-14 Annexing property located at the southeast corner of U.S. Route 30 and 94th
             Avenue.
             Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
2923  7-7-14 Riverside Medical Center for property located at the southwest corner of U.S.
             Route 45 and Steger Road.
2924  7-7-14 Annexing certain property located at the southwest corner of U.S. Route 45 and
             Steger Road.
3028  5-2-16 Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
             Julio and Sureia Martinez for property located at 7121 W. Stuenkel Road.
3029  5-2-16 Annexing certain land located at 7121 W. Stuenkel Road.
3053  9-6-16 Annexing certain land located at 21655 S. 108th Avenue.
3104  8-7-17 Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
             Colorado Acres, LLC (Iron Gate Estates Subdivision - 445 W. Colorado Avenue).
3105  8-7-17 Annexing certain land located in Will and Cook Counties at Iron Gate Estates
             Subdivision - 445 W. Colorado Avenue.
3316  9-20-  Annexing certain land located in Will and Cook Counties at 21060 S. 84th
      21     Avenue.
3417  10-2-  Amending the 11/10/2003 annexation agreement (Warning parcels).
      23
3482  12-16- Annexing certain property located in Frankfort, Will and Cook Counties at Abbey
      24     Woods North Subdivision.
3483  12-16- Annexing certain land at Abbey Woods North Subdivision.
      24
            
 
TABLE III: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Confirming the sale of $5,990,000 General Obligation
1451     3-21-94     Refunding Bonds (Waterworks and Sewerage Alternate Revenue
                     Source), Series 1994.
                     Authorizing and providing for the issue of $5,990,000
                     General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Waterworks and
                     Sewerage System Alternate Revenue Source), Series 1994,
1452     4-4-94      for the purpose of refunding certain outstanding general
                     obligation bonds and providing for the collection,
                     segregation and distribution of the revenues of the
                     combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1995 to pay
1550     12-18-95    the principal and interest on $5,990,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds (Waterworks and Sewerage System
                     Alternate Revenue Source), Series 1994.
                     Authorizing the issuance of $15,500,000 Waterworks and
1552     1-22-96     Sewerage System Revenue Bonds for the purpose of refunding
                     outstanding bonds of the village.
                     Authorizing the issuance of $15,500,000 General Obligation
1553     1-22-96     Alternate Bonds for the purpose of refunding outstanding
                     bonds of the village.
                     Authorizing the issuance of $8,000,000 Waterworks and
1554     1-22-96     Sewerage System Revenue Bonds for the purpose of financing
                     capital improvements.
                     Authorizing the issuance of $7,200,000 General Obligation
1555     1-22-96     Alternate Bonds for the purpose of financing waterworks
                     and sewerage system capital improvements.
                     Providing for the issuance of General Obligation Refunding
1563     3-18-96     Bonds, Series 1996A and General Obligation Refunding
                     Bonds, Series 1996B.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1996 to pay
1600     12-16-96    the principal and interest on $5,000,000 General
                     Obligation Bonds (Waterworks and Sewerage System Alternate
                     Revenue Source), Series 1991.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1996 to pay
1601     12-16-96    the principal and interest on $5,990,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds (Waterworks and Sewerage System
                     Alternate Revenue Source), Series 1994.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1996 to pay
1602     12-16-96    the principal and interest on General Obligation Refunding
                     Bonds, Series 1996A and General Obligation Refunding
                     Bonds, Series 1996B.
1881     2-4-02      Authorizing the issuance of $8,900,000 General Obligation
                     Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002 to pay
1941     12-2-02     the principal and interest on $4,395,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2001.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002 to pay
1942     12-2-02     the principal and interest on $8,900,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003 to pay
2037     12-15-03    the principal of and interest on $4,395,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2001.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003 to pay
2038     12-15-03    the principal of and interest on $8,900,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007 to pay
2435     12-17-07    the principal of and interest on $4,395,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2001.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007 to pay
2436     12-17-07    the principal of and interest on $8,900,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay
2542     12-1-08     the principal of and interest on $4,395,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2001.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay
2543     12-1-08     the principal of and interest on $8,900,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay
2551     12-15-08    the principal of and interest on $1,538,882 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 1996B.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009 to pay
2631     12-7-09     the principal of and interest on $1,538,882 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 1996B.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009 to pay
2632     12-7-09     the principal of and interest on $8,900,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax levied for the year 2010 to pay the
2684     12-6-10     principal of and interest on $1,538,882 general obligation
                     refunding bonds, Series 1996B. (See Ord. 1563, passed 3-
                     18-96, above.)
                     Abating the tax levied for the year 2010 to pay the
2685     12-6-10     principal of and interest for the issuance of not to
                     exceed $8,900,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                     Series 2002. (See Ord. 1881, passed 2-4-02, above.)
2732     8-8-11      Authorizing redemption of outstanding General Obligation
                     Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011 to pay
2756     12-5-11     the principal of and interest on $1,538,882 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 1996B.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011 to pay
2757     12-5-11     the principal of and interest on $8,900,000 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2002.
                     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012 to pay
2820     12-3-12     the principal of and interest on $1,538.882 General
                     Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 1996B.
                    
 
TABLE IV: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     10-19- Authorizing agreement for the extension of water and sewer service
673  70     south on Center Road between the village and certain adjacent
            property owners.
687  2-1-71 Amending Ordinance 673.
     12-3-  Authorizing the village and the Frankfort Park District to enter into
1031 79     an intergovernmental cooperation agreement for the enforcement of
            certain park district ordinances.
Res. 4-7-80 Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the
            county for a witness assistance program.
1071 1-4-82 Authorizing membership in the Intergovernmental Self Insurance
            Agency.
            Authorizing Contract with the southwest Agency for Risk Management
1074 2-1-82 for the purpose of seeking the prevention or lessening of casualty
            losses to municipal properties and injuries to persons or property
            which might result in claims being made against such units.
1142 8-19-  Amending Ordinance 1074.
     85
            Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement between the village
1156 4-7-86 and the Environmental Protection Agency for the design and
            construction of a sewage treatment improvement and/or modification
            project.
            Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement between the village
1157 6-2-86 and the Environmental Protection Agency for the design and
            construction of a sewage treatment improvement and/or modification
            project.
1221 6-20-  Amending Ordinance 1074.
     88
1362 10-21- Authorizing an agreement between Frankfort Crossings Limited
     91     Partnership.
     1-20-  Authorizing an agreement relating to the recapture of costs for sewer
1370 92     service improvements for Abbey Woods and a utility easement between
            Frankfort Partners and New Lenox State Bank.
     5-18-  Authorizing membership in the Southwest Agency for Health Management
1380 92     and authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement
            creating the Southwest Agency for Health Mangement.
1539 11-6-  Amending Article II of the Contract and Bylaws of the Southwest
     95     Agency for Risk Management.
     1-22-  Authorizing the execution of a collective bargaining agreement
1551 96     between the village and the Teamsters Local No. 714 Law Enforcement
            Division.
     3-17-  Authorizing an agreement relating to the recapture of costs incurred
1621 97     for the construction of the Jackson Creek Sanitary Lift Station and
            Force Main.
1737 4-5-99 Authorizing an agreement between the Village of Frankfort and the
            Village of New Lenox.
1738 4-5-99 Authorizing an agreement between the Village of Manhattan and the
            Village of Frankfort.
1768 12-6-  Authorizing an agreement between the Village of Frankfort and the
     99     Village of Mokena.
     6-19-  Authorizing the execution of a public improvement agreement between
1807 00     New Lenox State Bank (Trust No. 2224), Lincoln-Way High School
            District No. 210 and the village.
1956 3-17-  Authorizing the sale and/or scrapping of certain surplus property.
     03
2030 10-6-  Approving a public improvements recapture agreement between the
     03     village and Blue Danube properties.
     2-22-  Approving public improvements recapture agreement between the village
2151 05     and Suresh Mehta and Hinsbrook Bank & Trust Co., Trustee (Tuffy Auto
            Recapture Agreement).
     10-17- Authorizing entry into an intergovernmental agreement with Frankfort
2222 05     Park District for location of two village well facilities on Jackson
            Creek Park site property.
2223 10-17- Authorizing entry into an intergovernmental agreement with Frankfort
     05     Park District for improvements at Main Park.
2287 6-5-06 Approving a public improvements recapture agreement between the
            village and Gulfstream Development, Inc.
2301 7-3-06 Approving a five-year extension of the Abbey Woods Recapture
            Agreement.
2309 8-7-06 Approving the execution of the Commissioners Park Intergovernmental
            Agreement between the village and the Franklin Park District.
2311 8-21-  Authorizing an agreement for the purchase of certain property.
     06
2353 1-22-  Approving a public improvements recapture agreement between the
     07     village and McNaughton Development, Inc.
2359 2-5-07 Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with Will County for
            collection of special service area taxes.
2522 10-6-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with Frankfort Park District
     08     for Frankfort Main Park.
2547 12-1-  Approving 93rd Avenue sanitary sewer extension recapture agreement
     08     with GNC Properties Unit VII, LLC and Garry and Nancy Cooper.
     10-17- Approving annexation agreement between Village of Frankfort, Will and
2746 11     Cook Counties and North Star Trust Co., as trustee, for Robert D.
            Watson property located at 23262 S. 88th Avenue.
2775 5-21-  Adopting the Will Electric Aggregation Group Plan of Operation and
     12     Governance.
            Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between
2825 1-7-13 the village, Will and Cook Counties and the Frankfort Park District
            for the conveyance of Michele Bingham Park.
2900 4-28-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     14
2933 8-18-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     14
2939 9-15-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     14
2946 10-20- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     14
2949 11-17- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     14
2960 1-20-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     15
2964 3-16-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     15
2970 5-18-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     15
2978 7-20-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property.
     15
2993 10-19- Authorizing the sale or scrapping of certain surplus property.
     15
3001 11-16- Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a lease agreement
     15     between the village and My Sister’s and Me Boutique, Inc.
3016 3-21-  Authorizing the sale or scrapping of certain surplus property owned
     16     by the village.
3024 4-25-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     16     village.
3030 5-16-  Authorizing the disposal of certain surplus property owned by the
     16     village.
3049 8-15-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     16     village.
3067 11-7-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     16     village.
3076 1-17-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement to
     17     establish Laraway Communication Center.
3083 3-20-     Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     17     village.
3122 11-20- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     17     village.
3136 3-19-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     18     village.
3155 5-21-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     18     village.
3167 8-20-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     18     village.
3180 11-19- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     18     village.
3191 2-19-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     19     village.
3204 4-15-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     19     village.
            Authorizing the execution of a second amendment to the purchase and
3205 4-15-  sale agreement between the village and SDW Investments, LLC, for the
     19     property commonly known as part of 11 North White Street and part of
            7 North White Street.
3211 6-17-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     19     village.
3243 2-18-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     20     village.
3246 3-16-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     20     village.
3248 7-6-20 Authorizing the execution of amendment No. 2 for the lease agreement
            between the village and My Sister’s and Me Boutique, Inc.
3262 9-21-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     20     village.
3266 10-5-  Authorizing the execution of a lease termination agreement between
     20     the village and My Sister’s and Me Boutique, Inc.
3268 10-19- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     20     village.
3277 11-23- Authorizing loan agreement to borrow funds from the public water
     20     supply loan program.
3297 5-17-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     21     village.
3309 8-16-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     21     village.
3312 8-16-  Entering into the terms and conditions of the Coronavirus Local
     21     Fiscal Recovery Fund award.
3317 9-20-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     21     village.
3326 11-15- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     21     village.
3344 2-7-22 Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
            village.
3357 6-16-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     22     village.
3362 8-1-22 Authorizing the sale of personal and real property in regard to part
            of the water and wastewater systems owned by the village.
3367 9-6-22 Approving the purchase and sale agreement of certain surplus real
            estate.
3368 9-19-  Authorizing the disposal of certain surplus property owned by the
     22     village.
3376 10-17- Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     22     village.
3391 2-21-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     23     village.
3405 6-20-  Authorizing the sale of certain surplus property owned by the
     23     village.
     3-18-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental jurisdictional
3444 24     boundary line agreement between the Village of New Lenox and the
            Village of Frankfort.
            Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental jurisdictional
3448 4-8-24 boundary line agreement between the Village of Manhattan and the
            Village of Frankfort.
           
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
653      3-2-70      Vacating public utility easement in Pacific Street,
                     between Maple Street and Locust Street.
                     Granting easement to village on a certain portion of the
                     property previously dedicated as Smith Street to provide
—      5-11-84     for the future utilities service to Chesterfield Federal
                     Savings and Loan Association and Herbert P. Folkers’
                     property.
                     Authorizing Commonwealth Edison Company to use public ways
1388     8-3-92      and other public property with the operation and
                     maintenance of an electric system.
                     Authorizing Illinois Bell Telephone Company to use public
1389     8-3-92      ways and other public property with the operation and
                     maintenance of a general telephone business.
                     Authorizing the acquisition of utility easements on
1757     9-7-99      certain real property within the village for the
                     construction of a sanitary interceptor sewer.
                     Authorizing the acquisition of utility easements on
2031     10-6-03     certain real property within the village for the
                     construction of a sanitary interceptor sewer.
2730     7-18-11     Vacation of public utility and drainage easement for Lots
                     111 and 112 of Lighthouse Pointe Subdivision.
                     Vacating 10-foot public utility easement and 84-foot
2733     8-8-11      ingress/egress and shared parking easement for Paratech,
                     Inc. expansion located at 1025 Lambrecht Road.
                    
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to the Joliet and Southern Traction
291      4-6-08      Company for railway purposes over certain streets in the
                     village.
                     Authorizing the Public Service Company of Northern
292      9-9-12      Illinois to construct, operate, and maintain an electric
                     light and power system.
                     Granting to the Illinois Bell Telephone Company certain
343      9-14-25     rights concerning the conduction of a general telephone
                     business for 25 years.
                     Authorizing Public Service Company of Northern Illinois to
351      4-5-26      construct, operate, and maintain a gas distributing system
                     for 50 years.
                     Authorizing the Commonwealth Edison Company, a Public
486      11-17-58    Service Company division to construct, operate, and
                     maintain an electric light and power system for 50 years.
552      8-19-63     Amending Ordinance passed 7-3-50.
655      4-6-70      Amending Ordinance passed 7-3-50.
                     Authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company to construct,
760      6-5-72      operate, and maintain a gas distributing system for 50
                     years.
                     Granting to the Illinois Bell Telephone Company certain
950      6-6-77      rights concerning the conduction of a general telephone
                     business.
                     Granting a franchise concerning the establishment,
1089     3-21-83     construction, operation, and maintenance of a cable
                     television system.
1129     2-4-85      Amending Ordinance 950.
1137     5-20-85     Amending Ordinance 1089.
1203     2-1-88      Amending Ordinance 1089 and 1137.
1693     4-6-98      Amending Ordinance 1089.
1706     7-6-98      Granting a franchise for a cable television system.
1730     2-16-99     Granting a franchise for a cable television system in the
                     village.
2759     12-5-11     Granting a cable television franchise to Comcast of
                     Illinois, VI, LLC.
3333     12-20-21    Granting a cable television franchise to Comcast of
                     Illinois, VI, LLC.
                     Authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company (d/b/a Nicor Gas
3440     2-20-24     Company) its successors and assigns, to construct, operate
                     and maintain a gas distributing system in and through the
                     village.
                    
 
TABLE VII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     4-28-  Acquisitioning certain lands for street purposes, being lots one, two, and the
Res. 58     north 13 feet of lot three in block one in Bowen’s Subdivision of blocks 1, 12,
            and 13 in the village.
            Authorizing lease with the Frankfort Community Park District such property as
            the village now owns and uses as a public park, being blocks 17, 18, 19, 20 in
            Bowen’s Addition to the village, in the north half of section 28, township 35
641  8-4-69 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian; and lots 1, 2, and 15 in
            block four of Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Lincoln Meadows Unit One, a
            subdivision of the southeast quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12
            east of the third Principal Meridian.
            Authorizing lease with the Frankfort Community Park District of a certain
     12-7-  parcel of real estate for civic or park purposes, being that part of the
680  70     northwest fractional quarter of section 27 north and south of the Indian
            Boundary Line, in Township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
            Meridian.
            Authorizing lease with the Frankfort Community Park District a certain parcel
828  7-16-  of real estate for civic or park purposes, being that part of the northwest
     73     fractional quarter of section 27, north and south of the Indian Boundary Line,
            in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
895  8-4-75 Authorizing lease with the Frankfort Community Park District of the following
            real estate for civic or park purposes.
     Outlot A of unit one of Tanglewood Subdivision, being a subdivision of part of lot 12
(1)  in the School Trustee’s Subdivision of section 16 and part of the northwest quarter of
     section 21, all in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian;
     Lot 99 in Tanglewood unit three being a subdivision of part of lot 13 in School
(2)  Trustee’s Subdivision of section 16 and also part of the northwest quarter of section
     21, all in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
            Authorizing lease with the Frankfort Community Park District of a certain
            parcel of real estate for civic or park purposes, being that part of the west
977  5-1-78 half of the southwest quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east
            of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at the southwest corner of section
            21.
            Transferring certain real property for the convenience of the Frankfort Fire
1267 7-3-89 Protection District, to wit: part of Lot 1 and vacated Elm Street beginning at
            the intersection of the south right-of-way of Kansas Street.
            Authorizing the acquisition of certain properties for municipal purposes, to
     10-21- wit: Parcel I, the north three acres of the northeast quarter of Lot 15; Parcel
1361 91     II, the south 7 acres of west half of Lot 9; Parcel III, certain parts of Lot
            15 and 16 in School Trustee’s Subdivisions; said parcels in Section 16,
            Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian.
1598 12-16- Authorizing the acquisition of certain property within the village (Frankfort
     96     Boulevard).
1608 1-20-  Authorizing the acquisition of certain property within the village (Elsner Road
     97     Extended).
     10-20- Authorizing the acquisition of certain property within the village as described
1659 97     in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 1659 for the purpose of establishing the
            Frankfort Prairie Park.
            Rescinding Ordinance 1659 and authorizing the acquisition of certain property
1704 6-1-98 within the village as described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 1704 to establish
            and construct a park and wet bottom pond commonly referred to as Frankfort
            Prairie Park.
1741 5-3-99 Providing for the exchange of real estate property by the Village of Frankfort
            and Fox Investments, Inc.
1770 12-20- Authorizing the conveyance of certain real property (Heritage Knolls Park Site)
     99     to the Frankfort Park District.
1878 1-7-02 Authorizing the acquisition of certain property within the village (North
            Avenue extended west from current terminus to Walnut Creek).
1989 7-7-03 Authorizing the acquisition of certain property within the village for roadway
            construction and improvement.
2159 4-18-  Authorizing the acquisition of certain real property (seven parcels) within the
     05     village for roadway construction and improvement.
2175 7-18-  Authorizing the acquisition of certain real property within the village for
     05     roadway construction and improvement.
2320 9-18-  Authorizing the acquisition of the Dobis Property for roadway construction and
     06     improvement.
2321 9-18-  Authorizing the acquisition of the Oreske Property for roadway construction and
     06     improvement.
2848 7-8-13 Declaring the necessity or the convenience of the village, transferring certain
            real property to the Prairie Creek Homeowners Association Phase 2.
3166 7-16-  Authorizing sale of surplus real estate commonly known as part of 11 North
     18     White Street and part of 7 North White Street.
3179 11-19- Authorizing execution of first amendment to purchase and sale agreement with
     18     respect to Ord. 3166 real estate sale.
3281 12-21- Authorizing the execution of a purchase and sale agreement between the village
     20     and Bokay Flowers, LLC for the property commonly known as 1 North White Street.
3323 10-18- Authorizing the execution of a purchase contract between the village and Will
     21     County, as trustee, for property commonly known as 22677 Lilly Pad Lane.
           
 
TABLE VIII: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
614  3-3-69 Changing the name of Joliet Street to Kansas Street.
759  5-15-  Changing the name of Dakota Court in Lincoln Meadows Unit Two (Connecticut
     72     Hills), to Hawthorne Road.
946  5-16-  Changing the name of Laporte Road to Sauk Trail.
     77
973  12-5-  Changing the name of a certain road known as Ohio Road to Sangmeister
     77     Road.
2873 10-7-  Renaming W. Prairie Drive to W. Bull Rush Circle in the Bowen’s Crossing
     13     Subdivision.
     10-19- Renaming the following streets in the East Point Business Park: Mark Court
2995 15     to Roma Court; Hannah Drive to Fey Drive; Bronson Drive to Commerce
            Parkway.
           
 
TABLE IX: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
456  1-17-  Vacating a portion of Pacific Street as laid out and platted in Lankeneau’s
     55     Addition to the village.
458  5-2-55 Vacating the alley between Nebraska and Oregon Streets in block 9 in the
            original village.
481  4-28-  Vacating a portion of Pacific Street between Maple Street and Locust Street.
     58
            Vacating the public alley running north and south located in block three in the
     10-5-  original town, and that portion of the public alley running east and west in
496  59     block three which is located between the west line of lot 6 and the east line
            of lot 3 in block 3 in the original town; and Clay’s Avenue as located adjacent
            to lots 6 and 7 in Clay’s Subdivision of the village.
            Vacating that part of the public alley located in block two in the original
519  11-7-  town adjacent to lots 1 to 12 inclusive, and lots 13 and 16 in block two and
     60     all of the alley between lots 13 and 14 on the west side, and lots 15 and 16 on
            the east side, all in block two.
            Vacating that part of the public alley located in block 4 in the original town,
532  1-15-  which alley extends in an east-west direction and which alley lies south of and
     62     adjacent to lots 1 through 12, inclusive, and north of and adjacent to lots 13
            and 16 in block 4.
            Vacating that part of the public alley located in block 3 in the original town,
559  8-2-65 which alley extends in an east-west direction and which is located between the
            west line of lot 2 and the east line of lot 1 in block 3 in the original town.
            Vacating that part of the public street located west of and adjacent to block 9
583  6-19-  and east of and adjacent to block 10 in Bowen’s Addition to the village, south
     67     of the street formerly known as California Avenue and presently known as Oregon
            Street, and north of Utah Street, all within the village.
            Vacating that portion of Elm Street south of the street formerly known as
            Illinois Street, now known as Utah Street, south to its intersection with the
652  3-2-70 vacated street known as Pacific Street, and more particularly known as that
            portion of Elm Street east of block 11 and west of block 12 in Bowen’s Addition
            to the village.
            Vacating a portion of that street known as Elsner Road and an unnamed street
            running between U.S. Route 45 and the vacated portion of Elsner Road, being
682  11-16- that part of the northeast quarter of section 29, and the northwest quarter of
     70     section 28, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
            Meridian, and that part of the northwest quarter of section 28, township 35
            north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that part of Linden Road lying south of Lincoln Lane and north of U.S.
739  12-20- 30 in Arthur T. McIntosh’s Lincoln Meadows Unit No. 2, being a subdivision of
     71     part of the north half of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
            third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that portion of Pacific Street from its intersection with the west
            line of Locust Street to the center line of Hurry Avenue, also known as Hobby
808  2-19-  Avenue, and Hurry Avenue, also known as Hobby Avenue, from its intersection
     73     with the south line of Pacific Street to a line west of the south line of block
            16 of Bowen’s Addition to the village, in section 28, township 35 north, range
            12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that portion of the public alley running east and west in block 3
894  8-4-75 which lies west of the westerly line of lot six extended southerly and east of
            the westerly line of lot nine extended southerly, in block three, in the
            original town.
            Vacating a portion of dedicated Franklin Avenue lying between 94th Avenue and
967  1-16-  the westerly line of lot F in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Kean Avenue
     78     Estates extended southerly, in section 22, township 35 north, range 12 east of
            the third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that portion of Elm Street which lies east of the east line of lots 1
            and 4 in block 4, which lies west of the west line of lots 2 and 3 in block 3,
1102 11-7-  which lies south of the south right-of- way line of Kansas Street and which
     83     lies north of the north right-of-way line of Nebraska Street, all in Bowen’s
            Addition to the village in the west half of the northeast quarter of section
            28, in township 35 north, and in range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that part of Smith Street lying westerly of and adjoining lots 7, 8,
            9, 10, 11, and 12, and easterly of and adjoining lots 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, and
     9-17-  18, lying southerly of the most southerly right-of-way line of U.S. Route 30
1124 84     and lying northwesterly of the most northwesterly right-of-way line of U.S.
            Route 45 in Clay’s Subdivision of the north part of the east half of the
            southeast quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
            Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that property previously dedicated to the village situated between the
     6-17-  south line of lot 115 and the north line of lot 116 in Krusemark’s Addition to
1138 85     the city, Unit No. 10, being a subdivision of the east half of the northwest
            quarter of section 27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
            Meridian.
            Vacating that portion of Birchwood Road which lies west of the west line of lot
            12 in block 5, which lies east of the east line of lot 9, in block 6, which
1226 7-18-  lies north of the north right-of-way line of Illinois Road all in Arthur T.
     88     McIntosh and Company’s Lincoln Meadows Unit No. 2, a subdivision of part of the
            north half of section 21, township 35 north and in range 12 east of the third
            Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that part of a right-of-way dedicated for public highway lying
1229 8-15-  westerly of the west right-of-way line of Route 45 and east of the west line of
     88     the east half of the southwest quarter of section 21, township 35 north, range
            12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
1265 7-3-89 Vacating a certain part of Pleasant Hill Road situated within the boundaries of
            the property known as Pleasant Hill Cemetery.
            Vacating a certain portion of Kansas Street within proposed Lot 1 of Kansas
1266 7-3-89 Street Resubdivision and a certain portion of Kansas Street between the
            westerly line of proposed Lot 1 of the proposed Kansas Street Resubdivision and
            the easterly right- of-way line of Locust Street extended northerly.
     11-6-  Vacating a certain portion of the right-of- way of Elm Street extended south of
1285 89     the south right-of way line of Franklin Avenue in the Arthur T. McIntosh &
            Company’s Lincoln Meadows Unit No. 1.
            Vacating the south 33 feet, commonly known as old Michigan Avenue right-of-
1422 7-6-93 way, running parallel to lots 6, 7, 8, and 9 of Carpenters Subdivision being
            part of the west ½ of the southwest ¼ of section 21, township 35 north and
            range 12 east of the Third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that part of Hamilton Avenue lying south of the south line of Pleasant
1434 11-1-  Hill Road in Brookside II Subdivision Phase 1, being a subdivision of part of
     93     the east ½ of the southwest ¼ of section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east
            of the Third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating the unoccupied right-of-way described as the old Michigan Avenue
1521 6-5-95 right-of-way to the south of lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in Carpenters Subdivision,
            and the unoccupied right away described as the old Michigan Avenue right-of-way
            west of the Maple Street right-of-way and south of lot 1 of Kensigton Place.
     11-6-  Vacating the public utility easement commonly described as the 20-foot
1540 95     easement, located along the west line of lot 1, in Georgetown Square
            Subdivision.
1543 11-6-  Vacating the 20-foot easement commonly described as the 20-foot easement,
     95     located between 9097 Charrington Drive and 9083 Charrington Drive.
1578 6-3-96 Vacating a 25-foot by 150-foot strip located between the easterly line of lot 5
            and the westerly line of lot 6 of Weiland Farm PUD Unit 1.
            Vacating that dedicated 66 feet of right- of-way commonly known as Elm Street,
1585 7-1-96 except the north 205 feet of said right-of-way known as California Avenue
            (Oregon Street) and south of dedicated right-of-way known as Nebraska Street.
            Vacating a portion of Hackberry Road described as the west 66.00 feet of the
            east 570.16 feet of the north 249.84 feet and the west 145.84 feet of the east
1628 4-7-97 650.00 feet of the south 66.00 feet of the north 315.84 feet of the West Half
            of the Southwest Quarter of Section 21, Township 35 North, Range 12 East of the
            Third Principal Meridian.
            Vacating that part of 66 foot right-of- way commonly known as 84th Avenue lying
     11-3-  south of the southern right-of- way of U.S. Route 30 and north of the southern
1667 97     boundary line of Section 23 except that portion 58.06 feet north of said
            section line. All lying in Section 23, Township 35, North Range 12 East of the
            Third Principal Meridian.
     12-7-  Vacating territory beginning at the north 33 feet of the west 1961.77 feet of
1723 98     the southeast quarter of Section 28 lying easterly of the southeasterly right-
            of-way line of S.B.I. Route 51 (U.S. Route 45).
1810 7-3-00 Vacating certain crosswalks within the corporate limits of the village.
     5-21-  Vacating a portion of Smith Street right-of-way located at the Southeast
1859 01     Quarter of Section 21, Township 35 North, Range 12 East of the Third Principal
            Meridian.
1931 9-16-  Vacating a portion of right-of-way located at the original location of Colorado
     02     Avenue, east of Route 45 and south of Abbey Woods.
2064 3-15-  Vacating a portion of right-of-way located just west of West Bowden Street and
     04     McDonald Lane.
2607 8-17-  Vacating the original plat of subdivision for Crystal Brook of Frankfort Phase
     09     I, located at the northwest corner of Harlem Avenue and Steger Road.
2680 11-1-  Vacating the east 50 feet of part of Locust Street in Bowen’s Addition.
     10
2872 10-7-  Vacating a 20 foot no access easement located at Lot 146 in Stone Creek
     13     Subdivision.
3447 4-8-24 Vacating a portion of Ash Street.
           
 
TABLE X: ZONING CHANGES
Editor’s note: This table lists changes to the Zoning Map and variances to the
Zoning Code.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
              Rezoning property, being lots 12, 13, 14, 15, and 41 in Arthur T. McIntosh and
925  9-7-76   Company’s Kean Avenue Estates, a subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of
              section 22 in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the west half of the southwest quarter of
931  2-7-77   section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
              from R-2 to R-4.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the northeast quarter of section 21,
942  4-18-77  township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-
              2.
              Rezoning property, being the east 90 feet of the west 558.98 feet of that part of
944  5-16-77  the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 27, township 35 north,
              range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning property, being the north 165 feet of the south 825 feet of the west 530
948  6-6-77   feet of the west half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
              section 22, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
              from E-R to C-1.
              Rezoning property, being that part of lot 2, in the subdivision of part of the
949  6-6-77   southwest quarter of section 22, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
              Principal Meridian, from R-2 to C-5.
953  8-1-77   Rezoning property, being that part of the north half of section 27, township 35
              north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the southeast quarter of the northwest
963  10-17-77 quarter of section 27, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
              Meridian, from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning property, being the west 330 feet of the south 660 feet of the east half
              of the southwest quarter of section 27, township 35 north, range 12 east of the
965  10-17-77 third Principal Meridian; and the east 330 feet of the west 660 feet of the south
              660 feet of the east half of the southwest quarter of section 27, township 35
              north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to I-2.
              Rezoning property, being Cambridge Subdivision, a resubdivision of lots 38, 43,
968  1-16-78  D, E, and F in Arthur T. McIntosh and Company’s Kean Avenue Estates, a
              subdivision of part of the southwest quarter of section 22, in township 35 north,
              range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the north half of section 27, township 35
979  5-15-78  north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, beginning at the southeast
              corner of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section 27, from E-
              R to R-2.
              Rezoning property, being the northwest fractional quarter, north and south of the
985  7-17-78  Indian Boundary Line (except the east 40 acres), of section 33, township 35
              north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to C-4.
              Rezoning property, being the south quarter of the east half of lot nine in School
986  8-7-78   Trustees Subdivision of section 16, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
              Principal Meridian, from R-2 to C-1.
              Rezoning property, being the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
              section 27, and also that part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter
993  11-6-78  of section 27 lying southerly of the southerly right-of-way of the Elgin, Joliet,
              and Eastern Railroad, all in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third
              Principal Meridian, from E-R to C-4.
              Rezoning property, being the north 200 feet (except the south 150 feet) of the
              south 1500 feet of the east 300 feet of the east half of the northeast quarter of
995  11-20-78 section 21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
              and that part of the northeast quarter of section 21, in township 35 north, range
              12 east of the third Principal Meridian, both from E-R to C-4.
              Rezoning property, being that portion of lot 2 of Sagers Industrial Subdivision,
999  3-19-79  being a subdivision of part of the northwest quarter of section 28, township 35
              north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from I-1 to C-4.
              Rezoning property, being the south 180 feet of lot two in Sagers Industrial
1057 3-16-81  Subdivision, being a subdivision of part of the northwest quarter of section 28,
              township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from C-4 and I-
              1 to C-2.
1075 3-15-82  Rezoning the following property, from R-3 to E-R:
     Part of block 16, of Bowen’s Addition to the village, situated in the east half of the
(1)  northwest quarter of section 28 in township 35 north and in range 12 east of the third
     Principal Meridian;
     That part of vacated Hurry Avenue (also known as Hobby), lying south of the center line of
(2)  Pacific Street and lying west and adjoining (1) above, and part of vacated Pacific Street
     lying north and adjoining (1) above;
     That part of block 16 described as beginning at the northeast corner of block 16 of
(3)  Bowen’s addition to the village, situated in the east half of the northwest quarter of
     section 28, in township 35 north and in range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian;
(4)  The south half of vacated Pacific Street lying north of and adjoining (3) above, except
     that part lying east of the west line of Locust Street.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the northeast quarter of section 21,
1081 8-16-82  township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to C-
              4.
              Rezoning property, being the east half of section 20, township 35 north, range 12
              east of the third Principal Meridian, lying north of the north right-of-way line
1099 10-17-83 of Lincoln Highway, as dedicated, and lying south of the south right-of-way line
              of Ironwood Drive, as dedicated, and also south of the south line of lot eight
              and south of the south line of lot six, in Bankers Subdivision of the west half
              of the northeast quarter of section 20, from E-R to R-1.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the northwest quarter of section 22,
1168 8-22-86  township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, commencing at
              the southwest corner of the northwest quarter of section 22, to R-4, with the
              remaining as follows.
(1)  The west 750 feet (except the north 250 feet) to C-3.
(2)  The west 750 feet of the north 250 feet to C-3.
(3)  The east 350 feet of the west 1100 feet (except the north 250 feet) to C-3.
(4)  The east 600 feet of the west 1350 feet of the north 250 feet to C-3.
              Rezoning certain land, being that part of lots seven and eight, in Charles Clay’s
1172 10-6-86  Subdivision of the north part of the east half of the southeast quarter of
              section 21, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
              from R-2 to R-4.
              Rezoning property, being the north half of the southwest quarter of section 34,
1193 10-5-87  township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to I-
              1.
              Rezoning property, being part of the southeast quarter of section 20, in township
1197 11-2-87  35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, commonly known as a
              tract of land south of Route U.S. 30 and west of Elsner Rd., from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning property, being that part of lots seven and eight in Charles Clay’s
1202 1-18-88  Subdivision of the north part of the east half of the southeast quarter of
              section 21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
              from R-2 to C-1.
1204 2-16-88  Rezoning the following lands in the village:
(1)  The north half of the east half of the northeast quarter of section 36, township 35 north,
     range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-2;
     The south 200 feet of the north 260 feet of the west 245 feet of the east 295 feet of the
(2)  northeast quarter of section 36, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
     Meridian, from E-R to C-2.
              Rezoning certain lands, being lots —1 through —21 inclusive in Brookside
1205 3-7-88   Subdivision of part of the west half of the southwest quarter of section 21,
              township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from R-3 to R-
              2.
              Rezoning property, being lots 152 and 153, in Arthur T. McIntosh’s Second
1215 5-16-88  Addition to Lincoln Estates, a subdivision of part of the east half of section 23
              in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to
              C-3.
              Rezoning property, being that part of lots 5 through 7 and 9 through 23 in
1217 6-6-88   Osgood’s Subdivision of the south part of the southwest quarter of section 15,
              township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian, from E-R to C-
              1, C-1 PUD, R-1, and R-2.
1225 7-18-88  Rezoning the following property from E-R to R-2, R-4, and C-3 PUD.
(1)  Half of the southwest quarter beginning at the southeast corner of the east half, from E-
     R to R-2.
     That part of the west half of the southeast quarter and that part of the east half of the
(2)  southwest quarter of section 29, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
     Meridian beginning at the southeast corner of the east half of the southwest quarter, from
     E-R to R-2.
     That part of the east half of the southwest quarter of section 29, township 35 north,
     range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian beginning at the southeast corner of the
(3)  east half, and that part of the west half of the southeast quarter of section 29, township
     35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian beginning at the northwest corner
     of said southeast quarter, from E-R to R-4.
     That part of the west half of the southeast quarter of section 29, township 35 north,
(4)  range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian beginning at the southwest corner of the
     west half, from E- R to C-3 PUD.
              Rezoning property, being that part of the east half of the southwest quarter of
1228 8-15-88  section 21, in township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal Meridian,
              beginning at a point in the west line of the east half of the southwest quarter,
              from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning certain lands, being that part of the northwest quarter of the southwest
1260 4-3-89   quarter of section 26, township 35 north, range 12 east of the third Principal
              Meridian, from E-R to C-5.
1270 7-17-89  Rezoning a certain tract of land in Silvertree Subdivision from E-R Residential
              to R-2 Single Family Residential.
1291 1-15-90  Rezoning certain property lying south of U.S. Route 30 in Township 35 North,
              Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian, from E-R to AG.
1292 4-2-90   Rezoning a certain 160 acres of the northeast corner of the intersection of
              Harlem Avenue and Steger Road from E-R to AG.
              Rezoning a certain portion of the northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 35
1293 4-2-90   North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian, along with a nonexclusive
              perpetual ingress-egress easement, from E-R to AG.
              Rezoning a certain part of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 27,
1294 4-2-90   Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian, from E-R to
              AG.
1298 5-7-90   Rezoning 20615 S. La Grange Road from E-R to C-2.
              Rezoning a certain tract of land in the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township
1302 6-18-90  35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-2 and R-
              4.
              Rezoning certain parts of the west half of the east half of the southwest quarter
1304 6-18-90  of Section 24, Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian,
              from E-R to R-2 and from E-R to C-2 Commercial PUD.
              Rezoning a certain part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 27,
1305 6-4-90   Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian, from E-R to R-
              2; and granting a variance “Minimum Lot Width Requirements in the R-2 District.”
1306 6-4-90   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of the R-2 district for the north
              half of Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, in Smith’s Addition.
              Rezoning a certain part of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 21,
1308 7-2-90   Township 35 North, Range 12, east of the Third Principal Meridian, from E-R to C-
              5 Office/Research PUD.
              Rezoning Parcel “A,” certain parts of Lots 13 through 20; and Parcel “B,” Lots 7
1317 8-20-90  through 12 in the Charles Clayes Subdivision from C-2 and C-4 to C-2 with a
              special use for a PUD and package liquor sales.
1321 9-17-90  Rezoning Lots 6, 7, and 8 in Arthur T. McIntosh & Company’s Kean Avenue Estates
              from E-R to C-4 PUD.
1322 9-4-90   Granting variances to certain requirements of C-2 district for property known as
              118 White Street.
1323 10-1-90  Granting variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known as
              223 Walnut Street.
1332 11-19-90 Granting variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known as
              18 West Bowen Street.
1335 12-3-90  Rezoning two parcels in Hamilton Farm, owned by Albert H. Krusemark, from E-R to
              AG.
1336 12-3-90  Rezoning 22451 S. 80th Ave., owned by Thomas Hrach, from E-R to AG.
1338 2-4-91   Rezoning certain portions of Outlot B in Brookside II Subdivision, Phase 2, from
              E-R to C-5 PUD.
1339 2-4-91   Rezoning certain property owned by Martin Kaffell at 6 N. Hickory from H-1 and R-
              2 to R-4.
1340 2-19-91  Rezoning Lot 8 in Arthur T. McIntosh & Company’s Prestwick Unit Number A-3 from
              E-R to R-1.
1341 2-19-91  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 20701 Locust Street.
1348 5-6-91   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 120 W. Nebraska Street.
1349 5-6-91   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as Patterson’s Maple Street Subdivision.
1354 9-3-91   Authorizing a variance to the minimum side yard requirement of R-2 district for
              property known as 10759 Oakton Ct.
1355 9-3-91   Granting a variance to the minimum side yard requirement of the R-2 district for
              property known as 172 Grant Street.
1359 9-16-91  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 119 Walnut Street.
1363 12-2-91  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 131 Kansas Street.
1364 12-2-91  Authorizing a variance to side yard setback requirements of R-2 district for
              property known as 10563 Yankee Ridge Drive.
1368 1-6-92   Authorizing a special use permit for R-2 district property known as Peace
              Community Church Preschool.
1373 4-6-92   Rezoning property known as 241 White Street, owned by Burlyn Eisenbrandt, from R-
              2 to C-5; and granting variances to certain requirements of C-5 district.
1374 4-6-92   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 144 South Hickory Street.
              Rezoning certain property in Weiland Farm from A-1 to R-2, R-4 PUD, C-1 PUD, C-
1377 4-20-92  2 PUD, and C-5 PUD and A-1; authorizing variances to certain zoning district
              requirements for same.
1378 5-4-92   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of E-R district for property known
              as 562 C. Aberdeen Road.
1379 5-4-92   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 127 Linden Drive.
1384 7-6-92   Rezoning the property commonly known as 106 W. Nebraska Street from R-2 to a C-5.
1385 7-6-92   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 32 Pacific Street.
1386 7-6-92   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 253 S. Hickory Street.
1390 8-3-92   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 127 Kansas Street.
1392 9-8-92   Rezoning the property commonly known as 408 S. Center Road from C-4 to I-1.
1393 10-5-92  Authorizing a variance to certain requirements of H-1 district for property known
              as 1 North White Street.
1394 10-5-92  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of E-R district for property known
              as 824 Highland.
1395 10-5-92  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 139 Walnut Street.
              Rezoning the property commonly known as the Water Tower Site and the remaining
1402 2-1-93   portion of Unit III, Charrington Subdivision from C-1 PUD/C-2 PUD & C-5 PUD to R-
              2.
1408 3-15-93  Rezoning the property commonly known as Hunter Woods Estates, First Addition from
              A-2 to R-2 and E-R.
1409 3-25-93  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of H-1 for property known as 20
              West Kansas Street.
1414 4-26-93  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of I-1 for property known as 225
              Laraway Road.
1416 4-26-93  Rezoning the property commonly known as Lot 1 in David Wilson’s subdivision from
              I-2 to C-3.
1417 4-26-93  Rezoning the property commonly known as 20 West Kansas from H-1 to H-1 with a
              Special Use Permit for the sale of liquor.
1418 4-26-93  Rezoning the property commonly known as Outlet A, Brookside II from E-R to C-5.
1420 5-17-93  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 34 Smith Street.
1421 5-17-93  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 233 South Hickory Street.
1423 7-19-93  Rezoning the property commonly known as Kensington II Subdivision from R-2 and R-
              4 to R-2.
1424 7-19-93  Authorizing a variance to reduce the front yard setback of property known as 515
              Cottonwood Road.
1432 10-4-93  Rezoning the property commonly known as Mostar Ltd. from E-R to I-1.
1442 12-6-93  Authorizing a special use permit for outdoor storage and sales at Ace Hardware,
              326 N. LaGrange Road.
1444 12-20-93 Authorizing a variance to certain requirements of I-2 district for Vans Material,
              Elsner Road.
1446 2-7-94   Rezoning the property commonly known as Hunter Woods Townhomes from E-R to R-4.
1447 2-7-94   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 139 S. Walnut Street.
1448 2-7-94   Rezoning the property commonly known as Terry’s Automotive, 20450 South LaGrange
              Road, from C-3 to C-4.
1456 5-2-94   Authorizing a variance to certain requirements of R-2 for property known as 21139
              Hunter Woods Drive.
1457 5-2-94   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 district for property known
              as 132 S. Ash Street.
1458 5-2-94   Authorizing a variance to increase the size of an accessory structure for
              property known as 1012 Prestwick Drive.
1460 6-6-94   Rezoning the property commonly known as Bruti Condominium Addition from E-R to C-
              5.
1462 6-6-94   Authorizing a special use permit to allow a car rental agency in association with
              an airport for South Suburban Aviation.
1464 6-20-94  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Engelmann property from R-2 to H-
              1 PUD.
1465 6-20-94  Rezoning the property commonly known as 500 North LaGrange Road from E-R to C-1.
1470 7-18-94  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of I-1 district for property known
              as 524 Center Road,
1471 8-1-94   Rezoning the property commonly known as Weber - Rt. 45 PUD from I-1 to R-4/C-
              1 PUD.
1472 8-1-94   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 for lots 25, 32, 37, 40, and
              43 in Heritage Knolls Unit V.
1473 9-6-94   Authorizing a variance to reduce the minimum side yard of 328 Iowa Court.
1474 9-6-94   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of R-2 for property known as lot 19
              of 511 Linden Road.
1482 11-7-94  Rezoning the property commonly known as 352 S. LaGrange Road from I-2 to C-2.
1483 11-7-94  Authorizing variances to certain requirements of C-2 for property known as 352 S.
              LaGrange Road.
1486 12-5-94  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Gas City property (McEnery
              Subdivision) from I-2 to C-4.
1496 2-21-94  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Frankfort Garden Center from E-R to
              C-5.
1499 3-6-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Amoco Oil Company property from E-
              R to C-4.
1509 4-3-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Semanic property from E-R to C-1.
1513 5-1-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Old Mary Todds property from C-3 to
              C-4.
1514 5-1-95   Authorizing a variance to allow a five foot encroachment on a utility easement
              for 35 Carpenter Street.
1518 5-15-95  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Elsner Farm (Sutton Dale) from E-R to
              R-2.
1520 6-5-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as the east 6 acres of the Fleck Farm from
              E-R to I-1.
1522 6-5-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as part of Kensington II from E-R to R-2.
1524 6-8-95   Authorizing variances to certain requirements of H-1 for property known as 20
              West Kansas Street.
1528 8-7-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Pascarella property from E-R to C-
              3 PUD.
1531 8-7-95   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Lawdale subdivision from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning the property commonly known as the Gerardi Funeral Home, 9500 E. Lincoln
1532 8-21-95  Highway, from C-3/R-2 to C-5 for Lot C, and to C-5 with a special use for a
              funeral home and the residence of a proprietor for Lot A.
1541 11-6-95  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Smit/Kalhammer property from R-4 to
              C-5.
1542 11-6-95  Granting special exception variances for certain property currently zoned C-4
              (South End Boat Shop – 20000 S. LaGrange Road).
1544 11-20-95 Authorizing a variance for certain property currently zoned C-1 to reduce the
              setback requirement.
1560 3-4-96   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Hargens property from E-R to R-2 PUD
              and C-5 PUD.
1561 3-4-96   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Royce Group property from C-4 to C-
              5 with a special use for a drive-up window.
1566 4-1-96   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Pascarella property from R-2 to C-
              5 PUD.
1567 4-1-96   Granting a special use permit for the property commonly known as the Old Junior
              High School, currently zoned R-2.
1568 4-1-96   Rezoning the property commonly known as the Wirth property from E-R to C-5, with
              a special use for a restaurant and two office/retail buildings.
1577 5-20-96  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Beechen & Dill property from E-R to
              R-2 PUD and R-4 PUD.
1579 6-3-96   Granting a special use permit for the property commonly known as the Franklin
              Airport, currently zoned I-2.
1580 6-3-96   Authorizing a variance for certain property currently zoned R-2 to reduce the
              side yard setback.
1582 6-17-96  Rezoning the property commonly known as the 23-acre parcel east of Rt. 45 and
              north of the EJ&E Railroad from I-1 to E-R PUD.
1584 7-1-96   Granting a special use permit for the property commonly known as Fire & Spice,
              Inc., currently zoned H-1, to allow the sale of packaged liquor.
1588 8-19-96  Revocation of the special use permit granted in Ord. 1579 to the Frankfort
              Airport.
1589 8-19-96  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Hrach Farm, located east of 80th
              Avenue, south of Laraway Road, from AG to R-2.
              Granting a special use permit for the property commonly known as Palm Bistro,
1592 9-16-96  located at 21 S. White Street, currently zoned H-1, to allow the sale of
              alcoholic beverages for on- premises consumption.
1593 10-7-96  Granting a zoning variance for certain property currently zoned R-2 (Lots 4, 7, &
              8 - Lawndale Subdivision).
1594 10-21-96 Rezoning the property commonly known as Brookside Commons from C-2 to C-5 PUD
              with a special use permit.
1605 12-16-96 Rezoning the property commonly known as the property located at the northwest
              corner of Owens and Stegers Roads, from E-R to R-2.
1610 2-18-97  Rezoning the property commonly known as the Sangmeister property located at the
              southeast corner of Laraway and Wolf Roads, from E-R to AG.
              Rezoning the property commonly known as the property located at the southwest
1613 2-18-97  corner of the intersection of Wolf Road and Laraway Road, from E-R to R-2 and C-
              1 PUD.
1616 2-18-97  Rezoning the property commonly known as the property located on the north side of
              St. Francis Road, east of 88th Avenue, from E-R to E-R PUD.
              Rezoning the property commonly known as the property located at the southeast
1619 2-18-97  corner of Laraway and Pfeiffer Roads from E-R to C-5 (4.5 acres) and AG (15.5
              acres).
1620 2-18-97  Rezoning the property commonly known as the property located at the south side of
              Rt. 30, east of Pheasant Run Estates from R-4 to R-4 PUD.
              Rezoning the property commonly known as Hughes and Duggan Property, east side of
1624 4-7-97   Route 45, south of LaPorte Road, from E-R to C-3 PUD for Tract A, R-4 PUD for
              Tract B, C-3 PUD for Tract C, R-4 PUD for Tract D, Open Space for Tract E, and R-
              2 PUD for Tract F.
1627 4-7-97   Rezoning the property commonly known as Golden Gate Nursery from E-R to C-3 PUD
              with a special use permit.
              Granting a special use permit for the property commonly known as E-Quip
1632 5-5-97   Manufacturing, currently zoned I-2, to allow the outdoor storage of materials for
              business purposes only.
1633 5-19-97  Granting a zoning variance for certain property currently zoned R-2 (Caschetta -
              203 W. Nebraska).
1635 6-16-97  Rezoning the property commonly known as Sandalwood Subdivision from E-R to R-
              2 for 154.31 acres and C-1 PUD for four acres.
1637 6-16-97  Granting a special use permit for certain property currently zoned I-2 (Carroll
              Distributing - 121 Industry Avenue).
1639 7-7-97   Granting a special use permit for certain property currently zoned C-5 PUD
              (Liang’s Restaurant - Rt. 30 and Elsner Road).
              Rezoning of property (West of Rt.45, North of Lincoln-Way High School, East and
1643 8-4-97   South of the Will County Forest Preserve District Property)to E-R PUD and
              granting a special use permit for construction of a public utility.
1646 8-4-97   Rezoning of property (Walnut Creek Subdivision - St. Francis Road) to R-2 PUD, R-
              3 PUD and R-4 PUD.
              Rezoning of property (Trinity Farms Subdivision - 9436 Steger Road) to C-1 PUD
1647 8-18-97  and granting a special use permit to allow for sale of alcoholic beverages for
              consumption on premises and granting a special use permit for residence of
              proprietor, C-5 PUD for lots 2 and 3, and I-1 PUD for lots 4 - 42.
1650 9-8-97   Rezoning of property (Swanson Tools/Bachman Imports - 211 E. Ontario) to I-1 PUD.
              Rezoning of property (Frankfort Business Park - southwest side of LaGrange Road)
1651 9-8-97   to C-5 PUD and granting a special use permit to allow a drive-up facility and the
              construction of a three story structure 42 feet in height at the west end of the
              property.
              Rezoning of property (Hughes & Duggan Property - Rt. 45 - excluding Tract F, Lot
              6) to Tract A: C-3 PUD with a special use permit for a drive-through facility on
1654 9-8-97   Outlot F and special use permit for a carry-out window limited to non-restaurant
              use for Outlot 1D; Tract B: R-4 PUD; Tract C: R-2 PUD; Tract D: C-4 PUD; Tract E:
              C-5 PUD.
1655 9-8-97   Rezoning of property (Hughes & Duggan Property - Rt. 45 - Tract F, Lot 6) to C-
              5 PUD.
1663 10-20-97 Rezoning of property (Brosy - 9029 West Lincoln Highway) to C-2 PUD.
1666 11-3-97  Rezoning of property (Fortune Property - 8346 West Lincoln Highway) to C-1 PUD.
1670 11-3-97  Rezoning of property (Valley View Motel - 10957 West Lincoln Highway) to C-5 PUD.
              Granting a special use permit (Ambrosino’s - 20595 S. LaGrange Road) to allow for
1671 11-17-97 sale of packaged liquor. No alcoholic beverages will be allowed to be served on
              the premises.
1682 1-20-98  Rezoning of property (Abbey Woods - Phase 2) from E-R to R-1, with a minimum lot
              size of 20,000 square feet for 35 lots, and to
R-2, with a minimum lot size of 15,000 square feet for 26 lots.
1683 1-20-98  Rezoning of property (Auto Haus - 19915 S. LaGrange Road) from E-R to C-4 PUD,
              Automotive Service District.
1684 1-20-98  Rezoning of property (Folkers Property - Pfieffer Road) from AG to E-R PUD.
              Rezoning of property (Gas City - Rt. 30 and Wolf Road) from E-R to C-4 PUD with a
1689 2-2-98   special use permit to allow the sale of packaged liquor and to allow a carry-out
              restaurant for Gas City Service Station.
1692 3-16-98  Rezoning of property (Newbrook Subdivision - 116th Avenue, North of Laraway Road)
              from E-R to R-2.
1697 4-6-98   Rezoning of property (Weber Property - 108th Avenue) from E-R to R-2.
1700 4-6-98   Rezoning of property (Eul Property - 7800 West Lincoln Highway) from E-R to C-
              4 PUD.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Dominick’s - Rt. 45 and
1701 4-6-98   LaPorte Road) to allow sale of packaged liquors. No alcoholic beverages will be
              allowed to be served on the premises.
1705 6-15-98  Rezoning of property (Warfield - 175 Industry Avenue) from I-2 to I-2 PUD.
1707 7-6-98   Rezoning of property (Walgreen’s - 7209 East Lincoln Highway) from C-4 PUD to C-
              2.
1710 8-3-98   Granting zoning variances (Panozzo - 221 Kansas Street).
1712 8-17-98  Granting special exception variances (Gateway Office Park - 20 South Route 45).
1715 10-5-98  Rezoning of property (Heritage Olympia Bank - Lot “E” - Hickory Creek Market
              Place) from C-4 PUD to C-2.
1716 10-5-98  Granting zoning variances (Holomy - 41 White Street).
1718 11-2-98  Granting a zoning variance for D. Dale Sink and Nancy Sink Variance at 220
              Pacific Street.
1719 11-2-98  Granting a zoning variance for Stanley Tylinski at 266 West Nebraska Street.
              Rezoning certain property (Laraway Center Business Park - Laraway and Center
1720 11-2-98  Roads) from I-2 to C-5, with a special use permit for a planed unit development
              with C-3 business service establishments and wholesale and warehouse uses.
1722 12-7-98  Granting a special use permit to Borg Warner Automotive.
1727 12-21-98 Granting a special use permit to Tri-State Cut Stone.
1728 1-4-99   Rezoning certain property (West Property—SE corner of Route 30 and Wolf Road)
              from E-R to C-3, with a special use permit for a planned development.
              Rezoning certain property (Rizzi—8215 West Lincoln Highway) from E-R to C-5 with
1735 3-15-99  a Special Use Permit for a planned development and outdoor sales and storage of
              landscape and antique materials.
              Rezoning certain property (Die Bier Stube—42 Kansas Street) a zoning variance and
1740 4-19-99  a special use permit to allow construction of a decorative fence in the H-
              1 District.
1742 5-3-99   Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Bertic Variance—324 Oak Street)
              to allow construction of a garage.
1743 6-7-99   Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Pichler Variance—609 Brookside)
              to allow construction of a gazebo.
1748 7-6-99   Rezoning certain property (Plank Trail Estates—7405 West Lincoln Highway) from E-
              R to R-2, R-4, and C-2 with a special use permit for a planned development.
              Rezoning certain property (Pascarella Property—420 N. LaGrange Road) from C-1 to
1750 7-19-99  C-4 with a special use permit for a planned development for an automobile sales
              and display area.
1751 7-19-99  Granting a special use permit (Pascarella Property—400 N. LaGrange Road) for a
              planned unit development.
1752 7-19-99  Rezoning certain property (Row House Limited Property—32 Nebraska Street) from C-
              1 to H-1 with a special use permit for a planned unit development.
              Rezoning certain property (Fox Investments, Inc.—1 North White Street) from E-
1753 8-2-99   R to K-1 with a special use permit for a planned development for Parcels 1, 3 and
              4 to allow for the continuation of home improvement business and outdoor storage.
1756 9-7-99   Granting zoning variances for certain property (Goodwin Variances—132 S. Ash
              Street) currently zoned R-2 Single Family Residence District.
1758 10-4-99  Granting a special exception variance for certain property (Carli Property—
              Creamery— 459 Nebraska Street).
1760 10-4-99  Rezoning certain property (Sybaris—Rt. 30) from E-R to C-3.
1761 10-18-99 Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Drugas Variance—20649 Abbey
              Drive) to allow construction of a one-story ranch home.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (Eggert Marine—140 S.
1762 11-1-99  LaGrange Road) to obtain relief for frontage loss through the governmental taking
              of property.
1763 11-1-99  Granting a special use permit for a planned development (Burke Property—227
              Laraway Road) to allow for more than one structure on a parcel.
1771 12-20-99 Rezoning certain property (Windy Hill Farm—Rt. 30 and Pfeiffer Road) from AG to
              C-2, R-5, and R-2 with a special use permit for a planned development.
1772 12-20-99 Granting a special use permit for certain property (Hudson’s Restaurant—19943 S.
              LaGrange Road) to allow for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
1773 1-3-00   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Royce Group—10125 Laraway
              Road) to allow for the construction of two mini-warehouse facilities.
              Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Seefeldt Variance—1022 Hornbeam
1775 1-18-00  Court) to allow construction of a one story residence which encroaches
              approximately four feet into the minimum 40 foot rear yard setback.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Nextel Communications—Lease)
1776 1-18-00  to allow for the placement of an additional accessory structure at 1025 Lambrecht
              Road.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Children’s World—SW Corner of
1777 1-18-00  Rt. 30 and Locust Street) to allow a Children’s World Day Care Center on Lot 1 in
              the President’s Row Subdivision.
1782 2-7-00   Rezoning certain property (Lakeview Estates Subdivision—southwest corner of 80th
              Avenue and Laraway Road), from E-R to R-2.
1783 2-7-00   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Metro Towing—9410 Corsair
              Road) to allow a towing service.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Grainery Tower—24 W. Elwood
1784 3-6-00   Street) to allow for the construction of telecommunications antennae on the
              Grainery tower in the Historic District.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (village property—100
1785 3-6-00   Sangmeister Road, SBA Communications, lessee) for a planned unit development to
              allow for the construction of a telecommunications tower and maintenance shelter.
1790 3-20-00  Rezoning certain property (Stonebridge Valley Subdivision—Laraway Road, west of
              116th) from E-R to R-2.
              Rezoning certain property (Gas City—U.S. Route 45 and Laraway Road) from E-R to
1791 3-20-00  C-4, with a special use permit for a planned development, carry-out restaurant
              and packaged liquor sales.
1794 4-3-00   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Taco Bell—Outlot 2A, Hickory
              Creek Market Place) to allow a drive-up window at the Taco Bell/KFC.
1797 4-17-00  Granting a special use permit for certain property (tenant space E1—Hickory Creek
              Market Place, Phase 1) to allow a drive-up window for a restaurant.
1799 5-1-00   Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Hogan variance—201 Kansas
              Street) to accommodate a new three-car garage.
1801 5-15-00  Rezoning certain property (Huffstutler— 21239 S. 88th Avenue) from E-R to R-2,
              with a special use permit for a planned unit development.
1802 5-15-00  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Tore’s Restaurant—20500
              LaGrange Road) to allow the sale of alcoholic beverages.
1803 5-15-00  Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Alleruzzo/Templin—669 Fairway
              Lane) for the construction of a single-family home.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (McDonald’s—455 S.
1804 5-15-00  LaGrange Road), to obtain relief for lost frontage due to the governmental taking
              of property along U.S. Route 45.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property ( Sanfratello Pizza
1806 6-5-00   Factory—Lot 1C, Hickory Creek Market Place), to allow the sale of alcoholic
              beverages.
1808 6-19-00  Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Vilutis—1135 Center Road) to
              allow construction of a loading dock.
              Rezoning certain property (Eggert Marine— 140 S. LaGrange Road) from E-R to C-
1809 6-19-00  1 with a special use permit for a planned unit development, boat dealer and
              outdoor storage.
1811 7-3-00   Rezoning certain property (LaPorte Meadow Subdivision—LaPorte Road and 88th
              Avenue) from E-R to R-2.
1813 7-3-00   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Trinity Farms—9436 W. Steger
              Road) to allow a tack shop.
              Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Blachford Corp. Variance—401
1817 7-17-00  Center Road) to allow construction of a one- story manufacturing/raw material
              storage building.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (J. Clarke Realty
1821 8-7-00   Property— 28 S. LaGrange Road) to obtain relief for lost frontage due to the
              governmental taking of property along U.S. Route 45.
1822 9-5-00   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Hytone Concrete—190 Industry
              Road) to allow outdoor storage in an I-2 district.
1823 9-5-00   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Gerardi Funeral Home—42 East
              Lincoln Highway) for a planned unit development.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (Gerardi—42 East
1824 9-5-00   Lincoln Highway) to obtain relief for lost frontage due to the governmental
              taking of property along U.S. Route 30.
1825 10-2-00  Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Zager—247 W. Nebraska Street) to
              allow for the construction of a front porch addition.
              Rezoning certain property (McDonald’s— Route 30 and Harlem Avenue) from C-2 to C-
1826 10-2-00  3, with a special use permit for a planned unit development and a drive-up
              window.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (Gerardi Sign—42 East
1827 10-16-00 Lincoln Highway) to obtain relief for signage placed in the green space due to
              the governmental taking of property along U.S. Route 30.
1829 11-6-00  Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Schomburg variance—209 Hickory
              Street) to allow construction of three porches.
1830 11-6-00  Granting a spacial use permit for certain property (Sackman Animal Hospital—10850
              W. Laraway Road) to allow an animal hospital.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (AT&T Communications—
1831 11-20-00 Prestwick water tower) to allow the erection of an AT&T telecommunications
              antenna atop the Prestwick water tower.
1838 12-18-00 Granting a special use permit for certain property (St. Francis Woods—9201 St.
              Francis Road) for a planned unit development.
1839 12-18-00 Rezoning certain property (Autumn Fields Subdivision—Wolf and Laraway Roads) from
              E-R to R-2 and C-1 with a special use permit for a planned unit development.
1840 1-16-01  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Avanti Furniture—Elsner Road
              and U.S. Route 30) for a planned unit development.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (Finnegan Special
1841 1-16-01  Exception—237 LaGrange Road) to obtain relief for lost frontage due to the
              governmental taking of property along U.S. Route 45.
              Repealing Ordinance No. 1806 and granting a special use permit for certain
1842 1-16-01  property (Balagio’s Restaurant, Lot 1C—Hickory Creek Market Place) to allow the
              sale of alcoholic beverages.
1843 1-16-01  Amending Ord. 1791, giving a correct legal description. The ordinance already
              lists a correct P.I.N. and address.
1845 2-5-01   Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Schaffer Variance—325 Sherlock
              Street) to allow construction of an exterior chimney.
              Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Frankfort School District
1846 3-5-01   157C—10482 W. Nebraska Street) to allow construction of an addition to the
              existing school.
1847 4-2-01   Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Bartkus—Utah and Oregon Streets)
              to accommodate the subdivision of three lots into five.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Northwoods Saloon—south side
1849 4-30-01  of St. Francis Road) to allow construction of the Northwoods Saloon and sale of
              liquor at the restaurant.
1850 4-30-01  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Excel Building Management/B&J
              Towing, 24 W. Sangmeister Road) to allow a towing service and outdoor storage.
1856 5-21-01  Rezoning certain property (Flagstone Subdivision—Scheer Road) from E-R to R-2.
1857 5-21-01  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Old Frankfort Way
              Development— Phase I) to allow a fence with pillars for townhomes.
              Granting a zone variance for certain property (Frankfort Public Library—U.S.
1858 5-21-01  Route 30 and Pfeiffer Road) to allow the construction of an accessory structure
              for storage of landscape equipment.
1861 6-4-01   Rezoning certain property (Kurtz Memorial Chapel—U.S. Route 45 and Old Frankfort
              Way) from R-2 to H-1 with a special use permit for a planned unit development.
1865 7-16-01  Rezoning certain property (BP Amoco— southeast corner of U.S. Routes 30 and 45)
              from R-2 to C-4 with a special use permit for a planned unit development.
1866 7-16-01  Granting a special use permit for certain property (BP Amoco— southeast corner of
              U.S. Routes 30 and 45) to allow a carwash at the BP Amoco station.
1867 7-16-01  Granting a special use permit for certain property (United Liquors—20551 S.
              LaGrange Road) to allow sale of liquor.
1868 7-16-01  Granting a zoning variance for certain property (Wroblewski—626 Prestwick Drive)
              to allow construction of a garage addition.
1869 8-20-01  Rezoning certain property (portions of White Street) from their current
              classifications to H-1.
1874 10-15-01 Rezoning certain property (Plank Trail Estates Townhomes east—southeast corner of
              U.S. Route 30 and Plank Trail Drive) from C-2 to R-4.
1882 2-4-02   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Lot 29 in Airport Industrial
              Park) to allow for outdoor storage.
1883 2-19-02  Granting a variance for certain property (Lot 12 in Arthur T. McIntosh Prestwick
              Unit Seven) to reduce the side yard setback.
1884 3-18-02  Granting a special use permit for certain property (SBC/Ameritech—21032 S. 84th
              Avenue) to allow for a utility facility in an E-R district.
1885 3-18-02  Granting a variance for certain property (SBC/Ameritech—21032 S. 84th Avenue) to
              reduce the front yard setback.
1889 4-15-02  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Savoia T’Go—10233 Lincoln
              Highway) to allow the sale of liquor for the restaurant.
1891 5-6-02   Granting a variance for certain property (24 Pacific Street) to reduce the side
              yard accessory structure setback.
1892 5-6-02   Granting a variance for certain property (118 S. Maple Street) to reduce the side
              and rear yard setbacks.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Aurelio’s—southwest corner of
1893 5-6-02   Rt. 30 and Elm Street) to allow a drive-up service window, outdoor seating and
              sale of alcoholic beverages.
1894 5-6-02   Granting a variance for certain property (Aurelio’s—southwest corner of Rt. 30
              and Elm Street) to reduce the required green space.
1895 5-20-02  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Brookside Commons West) for a
              planned unit development.
1896 5-20-02  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Hegewisch Bank) to allow a
              drive-up service window.
1901 6-17-02  Granting a variance for certain property (9216 Gulfstream Road) to allow two curb
              cuts on Gulfstream Road.
1902 6-17-02  Granting a special use permit for certain property (H and B enterprises) to allow
              auto body service in the former Lucenta Tire building.
1904 8-1-02   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Pizza Hut) to allow a carry-
              out restaurant in Outlot 1D of the Hickory Creek Market Place.
1905 7-1-02   Granting a variance for certain property (39 West Nebraska Street) to permit a
              six foot solid wood fence to be constructed.
1906 7-15-02  Rezoning certain property (Abbey Woods Unit 3) from R-2 to R-1 and R-3.
              Rezoning from B-2 to B-4 and granting special use permits for certain property
1918 8-5-02   (Prairie Crossings—Southeast corner of Wolf and Rt. 30) for a drive-up service
              window.
1919 8-5-02   Rezoning certain property (Brookmeadow Estates subdivision) from E-R to R-2, B-
              2 and B-4.
1920 8-5-02   Rezoning from E-R to R-2 and granting special use permits for certain property
              (Settler’s Croft subdivision) for a planned unit development.
              Rezoning from E-R to B-2 and granting special use permits for certain property
1921 8-5-02   (Bobbie Noonan—8717 West Lincoln Highway) for a daycare center on the subject
              property.
1922 8-5-02   Rezoning certain property (Cobblestone Walk subdivision) from E-R to R-2.
1923 8-5-02   Granting a variance for certain property (231 Walnut Street) for a garage.
1926 8-19-02  Rezoning certain property (Ashington Meadows subdivision) from E-R to R-2.
1927 8-19-02  Granting a variance for certain property (656 Maple Court) to reduce side yard
              setback.
1928 8-19-02  Granting a variance for certain property (9227 Gulfstream Road) to allow two curb
              cuts for a lot.
1929 9-3-02   Granting a variance for certain property (3 East Nebraska Street) to allow
              construction of a mixed-use addition to the existing structure.
1930 9-16-02  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Gates Development
              Company—9217 Gulfstream Road) to allow outdoor storage.
1932 10-7-02  Granting a variance for certain property (897 Street Andrews Way) to allow
              construction of a pool equipment shed.
1933 10-7-02  Granting a variance for certain property (130 Walnut Street) to allow
              construction of a garage addition.
1934 10-7-02  Rezoning certain property (Laporte Meadows subdivision—Laporte Road and 88th
              Avenue) from E-R to R-2.
1935 10-21-02 Granting a variance for certain property (O’Malley—9308 Gulfstream Road) to allow
              two curb cuts.
1936 10-21-02 Granting a variance for certain property (735 Vermont Road) to allow construction
              of a sun room addition.
1939 11-18-02 Granting a variance for certain property (132 South Ash Street) to allow
              construction of a new single-family residence.
1946 12-16-02 Granting a special use permit for certain property (Berkeley Office Center) for a
              planned unit development.
1947 12-16-02 Granting a special use permit for certain property (Dawn Plumbing, Inc.) to allow
              for outdoor storage.
1948 1-21-03  Granting variances for certain property (Le Foute Inc.—215 Kansas Street) to
              allow construction of a new single-family residence.
              Granting a variance for certain property (The Country Living Group LLC—21764
1949 2-3-03   Morning Dove Lane) to allow construction of a fireplace for a new single-family
              residence.
1954 3-3-03   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Church of the Latter Day
              Saints—South Wolf Road) to allow construction of a church.
1955 3-3-03   Granting a variance for certain property (Church of the Latter Day Saints—South
              Wolf Road) for the height of a church steeple.
1957 3-17-03  Granting a variance for certain property (11871 Coquille Drive) to allow
              construction of a four-car garage.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (The Square at Old Frankfort
1958 3-17-03  Way—northwest corner of White Street and Old Frankfort Way) to allow for a
              Planned Unit Development.
1959 3-17-03  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Quantum Technical Services,
              Inc.—9524 Gulfstream Road) to allow for outdoor storage.
1963 4-7-03   Rezoning certain property (Lighthouse Point Subdivision—St. Francis Road west of
              88th Avenue) from AG to R-2 and R-3.
1964 4-7-03   Rezoning and granting a special use permit for certain property (Candle Creek
              Subdivision—St. Francis Road east of U.S. Route 45) from E-R to R-2.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Prairie Crossing Retail
1965 4-7-03   Center—southeast corner of Wolf Road and U.S. Route 30) to allow for outdoor
              seating.
1970 4-28-03  Rezoning certain property (Lakeview South Subdivision—northwest corner of Steger
              Road and 80th Avenue) from E-R to R-2.
1971 4-28-03  Rezoning certain property (Misty Falls—southeast corner of Laraway Road and 116th
              Avenue) from E-R to R-2.
1972 5-19-03  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Savioa T’Go—10233 Lincoln
              Highway) to allow for liquor sales.
1974 6-2-03   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Gas City—11155 W. Lincoln
              Highway) to allow for a car wash.
1975 6-2-03   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Great American Storage—Vans
              Drive and 104th Avenue) to allow for a Planned Unit Development.
1980 6-16-03  Rezoning certain property (Harper Business Park—south of Laraway Road west of
              Pfeiffer Road) from E-R to I-1.
1981 6-16-03  Rezoning and granting a special use permit for certain property (northwest and
              southwest corner of Route 45 and Lincolnway Lane) from ER to B-2.
1982 6-16-03  Granting a special use permit for certain property (LaSalle Bank—southwest corner
              of Lincolnway Lane and Route 45) to allow for a drive-up service window.
1984 6-16-03  Rezoning certain property (northwest corner of Wolf and Laraway Roads) from E-
              R to B-2.
1985 6-16-03  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Walgreens—northwest corner of
              Wolf and Laraway Roads) to allow for a drive- up service window.
1986 6-16-03  Granting a variance for certain property (3 East Nebraska Street) to allow
              construction of a mixed use addition to existing structure.
1987 6-16-03  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Anita Margarita Restaurant—27
              Ash Street) to allow for a full service restaurant.
1994 7-7-03   Rezoning and granting a special use permit for certain property (northeast corner
              of Route 45 and Colorado Avenue) from B-4 to B-2.
1995 7-7-03   Granting a variance for certain property (224 Pacific Street) to allow
              construction of a two- car garage.
1996 7-7-03   Granting a variance for certain property (20639 Abbey Drive) to allow
              construction of a swimming pool.
1997 7-7-03   Granting a special use permit for certain property (First United Bank—northwest
              corner of Laraway and Wolf Roads) to allow for a drive-up window.
1998 7-7-03   Granting a variance for certain property (First United Bank—northwest corner of
              Laraway and Wolf Roads) to allow a parking ratio variance.
2000 7-21-03  Granting a variance for certain property (109 Ash Street) to reduce the number of
              parking spaces.
2001 7-21-03  Granting a variance for certain property (3 East Nebraska Street) to allow
              construction of a mixed use addition to existing structure.
2002 7-21-03  Granting a variance for certain property (21271 Georgetown Road) to allow
              construction of an asphalt recreational sports court.
2003 7-21-03  Granting variances for certain property (48 McDonald Lane) to allow construction
              of a patio room.
2006 8-4-03   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Anita Margarita
              Restaurant—27Ash Street) to allow for outdoor seating and liquor sales.
2007 8-4-03   Granting a variance for certain property (266 Sherlock) to allow construction of
              a new residence.
2008 8-4-03   Granting a variance for certain property (21222 Plank Trail Drive) to allow
              construction of a concrete sports court.
2009 8-18-03  Granting multiple special use permits for certain property (Wright-Harper
              Building—Southeast corner of Oak and Kansas Streets).
2010 8-18-03  Granting multiple variances for certain property (Wright-Harper
              Building—Southeast corner of Oak and Kansas Streets).
2013 9-2-03   Rezoning certain property (23234 South Harlem Avenue) from E-R to AG.
2016 9-2-03   Rezoning certain property (23564 South Harlem Avenue) from E-R to AG.
2019 9-2-03   Rezoning certain property (23504 South Harlem Avenue) from E-R to AG.
2022 9-2-03   Rezoning certain property (7438 West Stuenkel Road) from E-R to AG.
2025 9-15-03  Rezoning certain property (23234 South Harlem Avenue) from E-R to AG.
2028 9-15-03  Rezoning certain property (23204 South Harlem Avenue) from E-R to AG.
2029 9-15-03  Granting a variance for certain property (1014 Prestwick Drive) to allow the
              expansion of a sunroom.
2032 10-6-03  Granting a variance for certain property (464 Meadow Avenue) to allow non-masonry
              construction materials.
2033 10-6-03  Granting a variance for certain property (105 Ash Street).
2034 11-3-03  Granting a variance for certain property (114 Hickory Street).
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Tuffy Auto Center—West side
2035 11-17-03 of Route 45 north of the forest preserve and Hickory Creek) to allow for an auto
              service and repair establishment.
2039 12-15-03 Granting multiple variances for certain property (340 South Walnut Ridge Court)
              to allow for a new residence, pool house and sports court.
2040 12-15-03 Granting a variance for certain property (868 St. Andrews Way) to allow for a
              construction of a new residence.
2041 12-15-03 Granting a variance for certain property (Suttondale Subdivision, Phase
              2—Nebraska St. and Elsner Rd.).
2042 12-15-03 Granting a variance for certain property (Cardinal Lake Subdivision, Unit 3—108th
              Avenue, south of the Old Plank Road Trail) to reduce the side yard requirements.
              Granting a variance for certain property (Candle Creek Subdivision—East of Route
2044 1-20-04  45, between St. Francis Road and La Porte Road) to reduce the total side yard
              setback requirement.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (“The Square” at Old Frankfort
2045 1-20-04  Way—Northwest corner of Old Frankfort Way and White Street) to allow for
              additional outdoor seating on the east end of “The Square” building parallel to
              White Street.
2046 1-20-04  Granting multiple variances for certain property (21748 Morning Dove Lane) to
              allow for an accessory structure/use and a boche ball court.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (The Townhomes of Abbey
2047 1-20-04  Woods—South of Colorado Avenue, east of the Hunt Club) for a planned unit
              development.
2049 2-2-04   Rezoning and granting multiple variances for certain property (Clarke Office
              Building— Southwest corner of Route 45 and Maple Street) from R-2 to B-4.
              Granting a special exception variance for certain property (Clarke Office
2050 2-2-04   Building—Southwest corner of Route 45 and Maple Street) to obtain relief for loss
              of green space along Route 45.
2055 2-17-04  Rezoning certain property (Vista of Frankfort Subdivision—Northeast corner of
              Wolf Road and Steger Road) from E-R to R-2.
2056 2-17-04  Rezoning certain property (23050 S. La Grange Road) from E-R to AG.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Wendy’s restaurant—310 - 362
2057 2-17-04  N. La Grange Road) to allow for a drive-up service window and extended hours of
              operation.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Garden Gate Crossing
2060 3-2-04   Subdivision Unit 2—NWC and SWC of Lincoln-Way Lane and La Grange Road) to allow
              for outdoor seating at the restaurant park.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Culver’s restaurant—NWC and
2061 3-2-04   SWC of Lincoln-Way Lane and La Grange Road) to allow for a drive-up service
              window.
              Granting special use permits for certain property (Buffalo Wild Wings—NWC and SWC
2062 3-2-04   of Lincoln-Way Lane and La Grange Road) to allow for liquor sales and extended
              hours of operation.
2063 3-2-04   Rezoning and granting special use permits for certain property (Amici Spa and
              Salon—9029 Lincoln Highway) from B-2 to B-1.
2065 4-5-04   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Quizno’s Subs—336 S. La
              Grange Road) to allow for a carry-out restaurant.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Frankfort Elementary School
2069 5-3-04   District 157C—northwest corner of Laraway Road and 116th Avenue) to allow for the
              construction of a new middle school.
2072 5-3-04   Rezoning certain property (23223 South Harlem Avenue) from E-R to AG.
2073 5-3-04   Granting a variance for certain property (21 S. White Street) to allow
              construction of a porch addition.
2074 5-3-04   Granting two special use permits for certain property (21 S. White Street) to
              allow for a restaurant and outdoor seating.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Frankfort Park District’s
2075 5-3-04   “Main Park” property—Southwest corner of Nebraska Street and Locust Street) to
              allow for the construction of a concession stand.
2080 5-17-04  Rezoning certain property (Five Oaks Subdivision—Southwest corner of Wolf Road
              and Steger Road) from E-R to R-1.
              Granting a variance for certain property (Shimmering View Subdivision—East of
2082 5-17-04  Route 45, between St. Francis Road and La Porte Road) to reduce the total side
              yard setback requirements.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Prairie Crossings Retail
2083 5-17-04  Center, Phase 2—Southeast corner of Wolf Road and U.S. Route 30) to allow for
              carry-out restaurants.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Prairie Crossings Retail
2084 5-17-04  Center, Phase 2—Southeast corner of Wolf Road and U.S. Route 30) to allow for
              outdoor seating and a carry-out restaurant.
2086 6-7-04   Granting two variances for certain property (20523 Abbey Drive) to reduce side
              yard setback requirements.
              Granting a front yard setback variance for certain property (Lighthouse Pointe
2087 6-7-04   Outlot A, Phase 1—St. Francis Road and 88th Avenue) to allow construction of a
              lighthouse entry feature.
2088 6-7-04   Granting two special use permits for certain property (Swinton’s restaurant—19947
              S. La Grange Road) to allow for liquor sales and extended hours of operation.
2090 6-21-04  Rezoning and granting multiple variances for certain property (Heritage Knolls
              Subdivision, Unit 6B—Laraway Road, West of Route 45) from R-4 to R-2.
2092 7-6-04   Granting a special use permit for certain property (Superior Towing—195 Industry
              Avenue) to allow for a towing service with indoor and outdoor vehicle storage.
2096 7-19-04  Rezoning certain property (Majestic Pines of Frankfort Subdivision—South of
              Laraway Road, east of Pfeiffer Road) from E-R to R-2.
2099 7-19-04  Rezoning certain property (Stonecreek Subdivision—East of Pfeiffer Road, between
              Laraway Road and Steger Road) from E-R to R-2.
2102 7-19-04  Rezoning certain property (Dieter’s Subdivision—Between 92nd Avenue and 93rd
              Avenue, south of Franklin and north of Old Plank Road Trail) from E-R to R-2.
              Amending Ordinance 1918, (Prairie Crossings Planned Unit Development—Southeast
2104 7-19-04  corner of Wolf Road and Route 30) to allow business hours after 11:00 p.m. be
              handled by a special event permit.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (SprintCom, Inc., Grainery
2105 7-19-04  Tower—24 Elwood Street) to allow for the erection of SprintCom telecommunications
              antennae.
              Granting variances for certain property (Panos Retail/Office Center—SWC of Route
2106 7-19-04  45 and Bankview Drive) to reduce the green space requirement and increase the
              height requirement.
2107 7-19-04  Granting a variance for certain property (9511 Corsair Road) to permit two points
              of access for a lot with less than 200 feet of road frontage.
2108 7-19-04  Granting a variance for certain property (22809 Mustang Road) to permit two
              points of access for a lot with less than 200 feet of road frontage.
2109 7-19-04  Granting a variance for certain property (9232 Gulfstream Road) to permit two
              points of access for a lot with less than 200 feet of road frontage.
2110 7-19-04  Granting a variance for certain property (9210 Gulfstream Road) to permit two
              points of access for a lot with less than 200 feet of road frontage.
2111 7-19-04  Granting a variance for certain property (9508 Gulfstream Road) to permit two
              points of access for a lot with less than 200 feet of road frontage.
2113 8-16-04  Granting a variance for certain property (112 Oak Street) to allow the
              construction of a detached garage.
              Granting special use permits for certain property (Home Depot and
2114 9-7-04   Staples—Northwest corner of Route 45 and St. Francis Road) for outdoor sales and
              two satellite dishes.
2115 9-7-04   Granting variances for certain property (20499 Abbey Drive) to reduce the side
              yard setback requirements.
2116 9-7-04   Granting a variance for certain property (22823 Mustang Road) to permit two
              points of access for a lot with less than 200 feet of road frontage.
              Granting special use permits for certain property (Burris Equipment Company—700
2118 9-20-04  W. Laraway Road) to allow rental, sales, and service and an above-ground fuel
              tank.
2121 10-4-04  Granting variances for certain property (Kirsch Dental Office—590 Bankview Drive)
              to reduce the rear yard setback requirements.
              Granting a special use permit for certain property (Living Hope Lutheran
2122 10-4-04  Church—Northeast corner of Pfeiffer Road and Windy Hill Drive) to allow
              construction of a church.
              Granting variances for certain property (Hardwick Village Woodshop/ residence—110
2125 10-18-04 Kansas Street) to reduce the side yard setback and the driveway setback
              requirements, and increase the height requirement.
2126 10-18-04 Granting variances for certain property (115 Walnut Street) to reduce the
              driveway setback requirement and allow a concrete patio.
2129 11-15-04 Granting a variance for certain property (255 Walnut Street) to allow for the
              construction of a shed.
2130 11-15-04 Granting a special use permit for certain property (Lighthouse Pointe
              Townhomes—St. Francis Road) to rezone from AG to R-4.
              Granting special use permits for certain property (Galway Tribes Irish Restaurant
2135 12-20-04 and Pub—9680 Lincolnway Lane) to allow for liquor sales, extended hours of
              operation, and outdoor seating.
2138 12-20-04 Rezoning and granting a special use permit for certain property (Charmaine
              Subdivision—890 and 895 Ironwood Drive) from E-R to R-1.
2140 12-20-04 Rezoning and granting a special use permit for certain property (Trinity
              Farms—9436 Steger Road) from E-R to I-1.
2143 12-20-04 Rezoning certain property (7119 W. Steger Road) from E-R to AG.
2146 12-20-04 Granting a special use permit for certain property (Wine Styles—20290 S. La
              Grange Road) to allow liquor sales (wine only).
              Granting special use permits for certain property (Frankfort Commons—20160 -
2147 12-20-04 20246 La Grange Road) to allow for outdoor seating, liquor sales, two drive-up
              service windows, a carry-out restaurant and hours of operation.
2149 1-18-05  Granting a variance for certain property (372 Redbud Court) to allow side yard
              setback of 10 feet.
2152 2-22-05  Granting a variance for certain property (22823 Mustang road) for outdoor storage
              of roofing materials and trailers.
2153 2-22-05  Granting a variance and special use permit for certain property (9311 Corsair
              Road) for two points of access and outdoor storage.
2154 2-22-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (22809 Mustang road) for
              outdoor storage of construction equipment and materials.
2155 2-22-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (9232 Gulfstream Road) for
              outdoor storage of construction equipment and materials.
2156 2-22-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (9302 Gulfstream Road) for
              outdoor storage of construction equipment and materials.
2157 4-4-05   Granting a variance for certain property (234 Kansas Street) to locate a dog run
              in the side yard.
2158 4-4-05   Granting a variance for certain property (Lot 2, Bank One Frankfort Subdivision)
              for 30-foot 7.5-inch rear yard setback.
2160 5-16-05  Rezoning and granting two variances for certain property (8518 Sauk Trail) from
              E-R to R-2 and from required first-floor building materials.
2161 5-16-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Lot 2 of Vansville
              Subdivision) to construct four industrial buildings.
2162 5-16-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (21-25 Old Frankfort Way) to
              allow for outdoor seating adjacent to south side of building.
2163 5-16-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (The Square at Old Frankfort
              Way) to construct a mixed-use development with offices and residential condos.
              Granting two variances for certain property (947B Shetland Drive) from first
2166 6-6-05   floor building requirements and to construct an addition on the residential
              property.
              Granting multiple variances for certain property (439 Ohio Road) for side yard
2171 6-20-05  setback, first floor building requirements and to construct a sunroom addition on
              the residential property.
2173 7-5-05   Granting multiple variances for certain property (145 Locust Street) for required
              lot width, lot area, side yard setback and front yard setback.
2177 7-18-05  Granting special use permits for certain property (Enrico’s/Walgreen’s Retail
              Center) for a PUD, drive-up service window and hours of operation.
2178 7-18-05  Rezoning certain property (7031 W. Steger Road) from E-R to AG.
2181 8-1-05   Rezoning certain property (St. Francis Estates Subdivision) from E-R to R-2.
2184 8-15-05  Rezoning certain property (Sara Springs Subdivision) from E-R to R-2.
2185 8-15-05  Granting multiple variances for certain property (707 Colony Lane) for lot size,
              lot depth and lot width, driveway setback and turning radius for a driveway.
2186 8-15-05  Granting a variance for certain property (254 Sherlock Street) from the first
              floor building materials requirements to construct a single- family residence.
2187 8-5-05   Granting a variance for certain property (301 Sherlock Street) from the first
              floor building materials requirements to construct a single- family residence.
2190 8-15-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Harper Business Park, Lot 1)
              to allow for limited retail sales in association with a warehouse use.
2197 9-6-05   Rezoning certain property (Jackson Creek Subdivision) from E-R to R-2.
2198 9-6-05   Rezoning and granting a variance for certain property (Foklers’ Estates Duplexes)
              from R-2 to R-3 and for a driveway setback.
2202 9-19-05  Rezoning certain property (Bernilda Wille property) from E-R to AG.
2205 9-19-05  Rezoning certain property (22723 Scheer Road) from E-R to R-2.
2207 9-19-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (22310 S. LaGrange Road) to
              allow a car wash at the Gas City fuel center.
2208 9-19-05  Granting a variance for certain property (22310 S. LaGrange Road) to allow for
              reduced required greenspace.
2209 9-19-05  Granting multiple variances for certain property (204 Hickory Street) for rear
              yard setback and accessory structure size variance.
              Granting multiple variances for certain property (141 Ash Street) for corner side
2210 9-19-05  yard setback, rear yard setback, lot coverage and for required first floor
              building materials.
2212 9-19-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (10284 Van’s Drive) for a PUD
              to construct an additional storage building with office space.
2214 10-3-05  Rezoning certain property (Crystal Brook Subdivision) from AG to R-2.
              Granting a special use permit for certain properties serving alcohol (Mary Todd’s
2215 10-3-05  Diner, Northwoods, Parmesans, Chef Klaus, Courtyard Bistro and Old Plank Road
              Tavern) to allow outdoor seating.
              Granting a special use permit for certain properties serving no alcohol (Treat
2216 10-3-05  Street, Frankfort Select Meats, The Creamery, Rosie’s Diner, The Black Kow and
              Starbucks) to allow outdoor seating.
2217 10-3-05  Rezoning certain property (Lighthouse Pointe Phase 5) from AG to R-4.
2218 10-3-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Lighthouse Pointe Phase 5)
              for an independent living facility.
2219 10-3-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (Phases 4 and 5 of Lighthouse
              Pointe) for a PUD.
2220 10-3-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (326 S. LaGrange Road) to
              allow a carry-out restaurant.
2221 10-3-05  Granting two variances for certain property (228 Oak Street) for a rear yard
              setback for an existing garage and a proposed garage addition.
2225 10-17-05 Granting two variances for certain property (262 Kansas Street) for a front yard
              setback and of the required first floor building materials.
2226 10-17-05 Rezoning and granting a special use permit for certain property (219 White
              Street) from R-2 to H-1 and for a PUD.
              Granting multiple variances for certain property (154 S. Maple Street) for corner
2227 10-17-05 side yard setback, front yard setback, lot coverage and required first floor
              building materials.
2228 10-17-05 Granting multiple variances for certain property (112 Oak Street) for side yard
              setback, height and lot coverage.
2229 10-17-05 Granting a special use permit for certain property (20517 LaGrange Road) to allow
              for the operation of a day care center.
2233 11-7-05  Rezoning certain property (Country Crossing North Subdivision, Phase 1 and 2)
              from E-R to R-2.
2236 11-7-05  Rezoning certain property (Country Crossing South Subdivision) from E-R to R-2.
2237 11-7-05  Granting multiple variances for certain property (255 Oak Street) for side yard
              setback, lot coverage and first floor building materials requirement.
2238 11-7-05  Granting a special use permit for certain property (9508 and 9510 Gulfstream
              Road) to allow for indoor recreation and entertainment.
2239 11-21-05 Granting a special use permit for certain property (Brookside Commons West, Lot
              2) to allow for certain retail sales.
2241 11-21-05 Granting multiple variances for certain property (9503 Gulfstream Road) to permit
              two points of access and to reduce required green space setback requirement.
2242 11-21-05 Granting two special use permits for certain property (131 Lincoln Highway) for a
              PUD and automobile sales.
2266 2-21-06  Granting three variances and a special use permit for outdoor storage for
              property located at 9219 Corsair Road.
2267 2-21-06  Granting a variance for two points of access and a special use permit for outdoor
              storage for property located at 9305 Corsair Road.
2268 3-6-06   Granting a special use permit to allow outdoor storage of portable executive
              washroom trailers on property located at 225 S. La Grange Road.
2269 3-6-06   Granting two special use permits for a drive- up service window and extended
              hours of operation for the Steak ‘n Shake in Hickory Creek Market Place.
2270 3-20-06  Granting a variance of the first floor building requirement for property located
              at 145 Locust St.
2271 3-20-06  Granting a special use permit to allow for indoor recreation and entertainment
              for property located at 9227 Gulfstream Rd., Unit B.
              Granting variances of the side yard setback, lot width, lot area, lot coverage
2279 4-3-06   and required first floor building materials requirements for certain property
              (130 Evergreen Drive).
              Granting variances of the lot area, lot depth, side yard setback, front yard
2281 4-24-06  setback and required first floor building materials requirement for property
              located at 861 Highland Road.
2282 4-24-06  Granting a lot coverage variance from 20 to 22.9 to construct a single-family
              home on residential property located at 21752 Shilling Court.
2283 4-24-06  Granting a sign variance for property located at 215 Linden Drive.
2284 5-1-06   Rezoning certain property located at the southwest corner of Harlem Avenue and
              Sauk Trail from E-R to R-1.
2290 6-5-06   Rezoning certain property located at 24561 S. Harlem Avenue from E-R to AG.
2291 6-5-06   Granting variances of the side yard setback and required first floor building
              materials requirements for property located at 825 Butternut Court.
2296 6-19-06  Granting a variance for the size of an accessory structure for property located
              at 22309 Jeanette Court.
2299 6-19-06  Rezoning property located at Bowen’s Crossing, southwest corner of 93rd and
              Franklin Avenues from E-R to R-4.
2302 7-3-06   Granting a variance of the first floor building requirement for property located
              on Lot 34, Cobblestone Walk Subdivision.
2303 7-17-06  Granting a variance to permit two points of access for property located at 9325
              Gulfstream Road.
2304 7-17-06  Granting a special use permit to allow for a point-of-sale auto shop to include
              indoor storage of vehicles at 9227 Gulfstream Road, Unit E.
2305 7-17-06  Granting a variance of the first floor building requirement for property located
              at 20492 Abbey Drive, Lot 1.
2306 8-7-06   Granting two variances for height and area of an accessory structure for property
              located at 256 Walnut Street.
2307 8-7-06   Granting two special use permits to allow for indoor recreation and entertainment
              and limited retail sales on the property located at 9227 Gulfstream Road, Unit A.
2308 8-7-06   Granting a sign variance for property located at 19917 La Grange Road.
2314 8-21-06  Granting a special use permit for a PUD to Manitoqua Ministries located at 8122
              Sauk Trail.
2316 9-5-06   Approving a major PUD change for Prairie Creek Townhomes, Phase 2.
2317 9-5-06   Granting two special use permits to allow for a PUD and a drive-up service window
              for property located in the northwest corner of U.S. Route 45 and Laraway Road.
2322 9-18-06  Approving a major PUD change for the Lighthouse Pointe Development, Phase 5.
2323 10-2-06  Granting a variance of the first floor building requirement to construct a home
              on Lot 20 in Folkers’ Estate subdivision.
2324 10-2-06  Approving a major PUD change for Lots 2 and 3 of the Abbey Woods Commercial North
              Subdivision, known as Brighton Corporate Park.
2328 10-16-06 Rezoning certain property located at the northeast corner of Pfeiffer and Steger
              Roads from E-R to R-2.
2329 10-16-06 Approving a major PUD change for Outlot 2A, Hickory Creek Market Place, Phase 2.
2330 11-6-06  Granting a height zoning variance for property located at 22615 Hunters Trail.
2331 11-6-06  Granting a lot coverage variance from 25 to 26.8 for property located at 10510
              Shilling Road.
2332 11-6-06  Granting a fence height variance for property located at 809 Overlook Drive.
              Granting variances of the lot area, lot depth, gross floor area, side yard
2333 11-6-06  setback, rear yard setback and first floor building materials requirements for
              property located at 566 Aberdeen Road.
2336 11-20-06 Granting variances for lot area and two points of access for property located at
              22727 Mustang Road.
2337 11-20-06 Granting a side yard setback variance for property located at 24 W. Sangmeister
              Road.
2338 11-20-06 Approving a major PUD change for the President’s Row Development.
2343 12-18-06 Granting two special use permits to allow for indoor recreation and entertainment
              and limited retail sales on the property located at 10315 Vans Drive, Units B-E.
2350 1-8-07   Rezoning certain property located at the northwest corner of Stuenkel Road and
              88th Avenue from E-R to R-1.
2351 1-8-07   Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the Waterstone Subdivision
              Development.
2352 1-8-07   Granting a front yard setback variance for property located at 333 W. Nebraska
              Street.
2354 1-22-07  Granting variances for lot area, lot depth, lot width and first floor building
              materials requirements for the property located at 538 Hobby Avenue.
              Granting variances for lot area, lot depth, lot width, side yard setback and
2355 1-22-07  first floor building material requirements for the property located at 441 N.
              Locust Street.
2356 1-22-07  Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the Old Plank Trail Community Bank.
2357 1-22-07  Granting a special use permit for a drive-up service window facility for the Old
              Plank Trail Community Bank PUD.
2361 2-5-07   Granting a variance for first floor building materials for the property located
              at 147 Locust Street.
2371 3-5-07   Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment or the
              property located at 716 - 722 Center Road.
2372 3-5-07   Granting two special use permits for a full service restaurant and liquor sales
              for the property located at 20 Kansas Street.
2378 4-2-07   Rezoning property located at the northwest corner of Stuenkel Road and 88th
              Avenue from E-R to R-1.
2379 4-2-07   Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the Waterstone Subdivision
              Development.
2380 4-2-07   Repealing Ord. 2119 and granting two special use permits for liquor sales and
              extended hours for the property located at 330 W. Lincoln Highway.
2381 4-2-07   Granting a sign variance for the property located at 9645 Lincoln-Way Lane.
2383 4-2-07   Granting variances for rear yard setback, interior side yard setback and height
              requirements for the property located at 28 Kansas Street.
2387 4-30-07  Granting a side yard setback variance for the property located at 22749 Citation
              Road.
2388 4-30-07  Granting a special use permit for liquor sales for the property located at 113
              Kansas Street.
2389 5-14-07  Rezoning the west 500 feet of the southwest corner of Steger Road and 88th Avenue
              from E-R to AG.
2390 5-14-07  Granting variances for lot depth, side yard setback and first floor building
              materials for the property located at 600 N. Locust Street.
2391 6-4-07   Granting a parking variance for the property located at 22749 Citation Road.
2396 7-2-07   Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating for the property located at
              19917 S. La Grange Road.
              Granting variances for lot area, lot depth, front yard setback, accessory
2397 7-2-07   structure setback, driveway setback and first floor building materials for the
              property located at 130 Hickory Street.
2399 7-16-07  Rezoning property located at the northwest corner of U.S. Route 30 and Frankfort
              Square Road from E-R to B-2.
2400 7-16-07  Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the property located at the northwest
              corner of U.S. Route 30 and Frankfort Square Road.
2401 7-16-07  Granting a special use permit for a drive-up service facility for the property
              located at the northwest corner of U.S. Route 30 and Frankfort Square Road.
2402 7-16-07  Granting a variance for lot coverage for the property located at 20674 Holland
              Harbor Drive.
2404 8-6-07   Granting two special use permits for liquor sales and extended hours of operation
              for the property located at 21000 S. Frankfort Square Road.
2405 8-6-07   Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating for the property located at
              21000 S. Frankfort Square Road.
2409 9-4-07   Rezoning property located at 21125 S. 94th Avenue from E-R to B-4.
              Granting variances for lot width, lot depth, rear yard setback, corner side yard
2410 9-4-07   setback, and first floor building materials for the property located at 427
              Michigan Road.
2411 9-4-07   Granting a special use permit for indoor religious use for the property located
              at 8775 S. Laraway Road.
2412 9-4-07   Granting a height variance for the property located at 22520 North Pebble Lake
              Court.
              Granting variances for lot depth, lot width, lot area, side yard setback,
2418 10-1-07  driveway setback, and first floor building materials for the property located at
              47 White Street.
2419 10-15-07 Approving a major PUD change for the property located at the northeast corner of
              La Grange and St. Francis Roads.
              Granting two special use permits for drive-up service window and outdoor seating
2420 10-15-07 for the property located at the northeast corner of La Grange and St. Francis
              Roads.
2421 11-5-07  Granting a special use permit for an elementary school for the property located
              at 10480 W. Nebraska Street.
2422 11-5-07  Granting a rear yard setback variance for the property located at 10480 W.
              Nebraska Street.
2423 11-5-07  Granting a special use permit for an elementary school for the property located
              at 22265 S. 80th Avenue.
2424 11-5-07  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage for Ruane Industrial Center -
              Bronson Drive.
2425 11-5-07  Granting a height variance for the property located at Ruane Industrial Center -
              Bronson Drive.
2426 11-5-07  Granting a building materials variance for property located at 545 Aberdeen Road.
2433 12-17-07 Granting a special use permit for the property located at 9645 Lincoln-Way Lane.
2439 1-22-08  Approving PUD change for Prairie Crossings Retail Center located at 11125 W.
              Lincoln Highway.
2443 2-19-08  Granting a special use permit for an indoor cultural use for the property located
              at 11 S. White Street.
2444 2-19-08  Granting a height variance for the property located at 20538 Abbey Drive.
2446 3-3-08   Repealing Ords. 2404 and 2405 which granted a special use permit for a Choppers
              Chop House Restaurant at the property located at 21000 S. Frankfort Square Road.
2449 3-17-08  Rezoning the property located at the northeast corner of Center and Steger Roads
              from E-R to I-1.
2450 4-7-08   Approving PUD change for the property located at 20533 La Grange Road.
2451 4-7-08   Granting a special use permit for a drive-up service facility for the property
              located at 20533 La Grange Road.
2452 4-7-08   Approving PUD change for the property located at 9473 W. St. Francis Road.
2453 4-7-08   Granting two special use permits for liquor sales and extended hours of operation
              for the property located at 21000 S. Frankfort Square Road.
2454 4-7-08   Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating for the property located at
              21000 S. Frankfort Square Road, Units M-Q.
2455 4-7-08   Granting a luminaire height variance for the eastern baseball field located
              within Jackson Creek Park.
2456 4-7-08   Granting a luminaire height variance for two ball fields within Commissioners
              Park.
2457 4-7-08   Granting two setback variances for the property located at 33 W. Lincoln Highway.
2459 4-28-08  Rezoning the property located at the southwest corner of Old Frankfort Way and
              U.S. Route 45 from R-2 to H-1.
2460 4-28-08  Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the property known as Folker’s
              Estates Subdivision, Outlot C.
2461 4-28-08  Granting setback variances to the property located at 322 Nebraska Street.
2462 5-5-08   Granting lot area, lot depth and setback variances for the property located at
              1019 Prestwick Drive.
2463 5-19-08  Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment for property located at
              9645 Lincoln-Way Lane, Suites 110 and 111.
2464 5-19-08  Granting lot area, lot width, lot depth and setback variances for the property
              located at 105 Pfaff Drive.
2465 5-19-08  Granting variances for two and three points of access for the property located at
              22772 Challenger Road.
2466 5-19-08  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage for the property located at
              22772 Challenger Road.
2467 5-19-08  Granting variances for two and three points of access for the property located at
              22775 Challenger Road.
2468 5-19-08  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage for the property located at
              22775 Challenger Road.
2469 5-19-08  Granting a special use permit for automobile repair for the property located at
              22775 Challenger Road.
2470 5-19-08  Granting a variance for three points of access for the property located at 22774
              Citation Road.
2471 5-19-08  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage for the property located at
              22774 Citation Road.
2472 5-19-08  Granting lot area, lot width, lot depth and setback variances for the property
              located at 612 Prestwick Drive.
2475 6-2-08   Granting variances for lot width and setback for the property located at 262
              Mulberry Road.
2477 6-2-08   Granting a PUD change to the property located at 32 W. Nebraska Street.
2482 6-16-08  Granting a special use permit for a message establishment for the property
              located at Frankfort Plaza Shopping Center, Units 87-91.
2483 6-16-08  Granting variances for lot area, lot width, lot depth and setback for the
              property located at 42 McDonald Lane.
2484 6-16-08  Granting a fence height variance for the property located at 250 Walnut Street.
2485 6-16-08  Granting variances for lot area, lot width, lot depth, lot coverage, and setback
              for the property located at 557 Birchwood Road.
2490 7-21-08  Approving a PUD change for the property located at 20533 La Grange Road.
2491 7-21-08  Granting a special use permit for liquor sales for the property located at 20535
              La Grange Road, Unit O.
2492 7-21-08  Granting a special use permit for extended hours of operation for the property
              located at 20535 La Grange Road, Unit O.
2493 7-21-08  Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating for the property located at
              20535 La Grange Road, Unit O.
2494 8-4-08   Granting setback variances to the property located at 147 Kansas Street.
2496 8-4-08   Granting variances for lot depth, lot area, setback and first floor building
              materials for the property located at 235 Walnut Street.
2503 8-18-08  Rezoning the property located at the southeast corner of Wolf Road and the EJ & E
              Railroad tracks from E-R to R-2.
2504 8-18-08  Granting a special use permit for an indoor cultural use for the property located
              at the southeast corner of Wolf Road at the EJ & J Railroad tracks.
2505 8-18-08  Granting a setback variance for the property located at the southeast corner of
              Wolf Road at the EJ & J Railroad tracks.
2506 8-18-08  Granting a special use permit for auto body repair service for the property
              located at 10321 Vans Drive, Unit C.
2507 8-18-08  Granting variances for setback, first floor building materials, and lot depth for
              the property located at 552 Birchwood Road.
2508 9-2-08   Granting variances for setback, lot coverage and first floor building materials
              for the property located at 215 Kansas Street.
2509 9-2-08   Granting a special use permit for operation of a barber shop for the property
              located at 9473 W. St Francis Road, Suite 104.
2510 9-2-08   Granting variances for setback, first floor building materials and height for the
              property located at 42 East Bowen Street.
2511 9-2-08   Granting variances for setback, lot coverage and height for the property located
              at 137 Kansas Street.
2514 9-15-08  Granting variances for setback, lot coverage and first floor building materials
              for the property located at 144 W. Nebraska Street.
2515 9-15-08  Granting variances for setback, height, first floor building materials and lot
              coverage for the property located at 211 W. Nebraska Street.
2517 9-22-08  Repealing Ord. 1849 which granted a special use permit for Northwoods Saloon
              Restaurant located at 9545 St. Francis Road.
2518 9-22-08  Granting special use permits for liquor sales and extended hours for the
              Fireplace Restaurant located at 9545 St. Francis Road.
2519 10-6-08  Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant for the property located
              at 9326 Corsair Road.
2520 10-6-08  Granting a special use permit for an animal kennel for the property located at
              9204 Gulfstream Road.
2521 10-6-08  Granting variances for setback, height and first flood building materials for the
              property located at 246 S. Center Road.
2526 10-20-08 Granting a sign and zoning variance for the property located at 9201 W. St.
              Francis Road.
2527 11-3-08  Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the Bronson Square Development.
2528 11-3-08  Rezoning Lots 1 and 2 of the property known as Bronson Square Development from B-
              4 to B-2.
2529 11-3-08  Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating for the property located at
              Bronson Square Development.
2530 11-3-08  Granting a special use permit for a drive-up service window for a bank building
              for the property located at Bronson Square Development.
2531 11-3-08  Granting a special use permit for drive-up service window for retail building “A”
              for the property located at Bronson Square Development.
2536 11-17-08 Rezoning the property located at 21337 and 21325 93rd Avenue from E-R to R-2.
2537 11-17-08 Granting variances for two points of access and setback for the property located
              at 22771 Citation Road.
2538 11-17-08 Granting variances for impervious lot coverage and setback for the property
              located at 22550 Nature Creek Circle.
2539 11-17-08 Granting variances for first floor building materials, lot width, lot depth and
              lot area for the property located at 616 Lincoln Lane.
2540 11-17-08 Granting variances for construction of shed for the property located at 151
              Evergreen Drive.
2548 12-1-08  Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the Cooper Estates development.
2549 12-1-08  Granting a special use permit for extended hours of operation for the property
              located at 9326 Corsair Road.
2552 12-15-08 Granting a variance for accessory structure area for the property located at
              23248 Jackson Branch Drive.
2553 12-15-08 Granting a first floor building materials variance for the property located at
              21434 S. 92nd Avenue.
2554 12-15-08 Granting setback variances for the property located at 157 Evergreen Drive.
              Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to the Belly Factory, a
2557 1-20-09  maternity boutique located within the Mannheim Square Center at 20500 South
              LaGrange Road, Unit No. 5.
2558 1-20-09  Granting a special use permit for a landscape company to Sila Maintenance, Inc.,
              located at 10317 Vans Drive, Units C, D and E.
2559 1-20-09  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to Sila Maintenance, Inc.,
              located at 10317 Vans Drive, Units C, D and E.
2560 1-20-09  Granting a special use permit for extended hours of operation to Sila
              Maintenance, Inc., located at 10317 Vans Drive, Units C, D and E.
              Granting a special use permit for a PUD for the Silver Cross Hospital property
2561 1-20-09  and development, 161 acres generally located along the north side of U.S. Route
              30 and east of 94th Avenue.
              Rezoning Lot 1 of the final plat of Subdivision Unit 1, Silver Cross Medical
2562 1-20-09  Center, part of the 161-acre Silver Cross PUD, located at the northwest corner of
              U.S. Route 30 and 93rd Avenue, from E-R to B-2.
2563 1-20-09  Granting a special use permit for extended hours of operation to Lot 1 of the
              final plat of Subdivision Unit 1, Silver Cross Medical Center.
2566 2-17-09  Approving a major change for the Cappel Commons PUD to permit a daycare center
              with extended hours of operation.
2567 2-17-09  Granting a special use permit to the Cappel Commons PUD for a daycare center.
2568 2-17-09  Granting a special use permit to the Cappel Commons PUD for extended hours of
              operation for a daycare center.
              Granting a luminaire height variance from 50 feet to 60 feet for the west
2571 3-16-09  softball field within Jackson Creek Park, located east of Wolf Road, between
              Laraway and Steger Roads.
              Granting a luminaire height variance from 50 feet to 60 feet for the existing
2572 3-16-09  north soccer field within Commissioners Park, located at the southwest corner of
              Sauk Trail and 80th Avenue.
2573 3-16-09  Granting an accessory structure area variance and a lot coverage variance to the
              Morgan residence located at 20195 LaPorte Meadows Drive.
              Approving a major PUD change to allow the demolition of the existing wood frame
2574 3-16-09  storage/concession stand building, and the construction of a new 600-square foot
              storage facility at the Frankfort Park District's Main Park property, located at
              400 West Nebraska Street.
              Granting a special use permit to allow for indoor recreation and entertainment at
2575 3-16-09  the Five Tools Baseball Academy, located at 9270 Corsair Road, Units 2,3,10,11
              and 12,
              Granting a special use permit to Crown Center of Frankfort LLC for a carry-out
2576 3-16-09  restaurant, Smooth Joe's Gourmet Sandwiches & Coffee House, at 9645 LaGrange
              Road, Suite 107.
2580 4-6-09   Rezoning certain Frankfort Fire Station No. 4 property, located at the northeast
              corner of Steger Road and 80th Avenue, from E-R to R-1.
2581 4-6-09   Granting a special use permit for an indoor civic use to Frankfort Fire Station
              No. 4 property.
2582 4-6-09   Granting a special use permit for an 80-foot communications tower to Frankfort
              Fire Station No. 4 property.
2589 5-18-09  Granting a zoning variance to permit two points of access and a side yard setback
              variance at the Fey & Graefen Industrial Park, located a 9164 Gulfstream Road.
              Amending Ord. No. 2134 to grant a special use permit to Dependable Auto Shippers,
2590 5-18-09  Inc., and L.A. Sites, Inc., to allow for outdoor storage of construction vehicles
              and equipment at 10125 Laraway Road.
              Granting a special use permit to the Music Connection to allow for indoor
2591 5-18-09  recreation and entertainment to operate a 3,000 square foot music school on
              property located at 227 East Laraway Road, Unit A.
              Granting multiple zoning variances to accommodate raising the existing residence
2597 6-15-09  and constructing a new single-family residence on the property located at 46
              North White Street, the Blum residence.
2600 7-20-09  Granting an interior side yard setback zoning variance to the Frankfort Bowling
              Alley located at 15 Ash Street.
2601 7-20-09  Granting two special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment and
              extended hours of operation to the Frankfort Bowling Alley.
2602 7-20-09  Granting a special use permit for liquor sales to the Frankfort Bowling Alley.
2603 7-20-09  Granting a special use permit to operate a carryout Chinese restaurant within the
              Frankfort Crossings Shopping Center, located at 312 North LaGrange Road.
2608 8-17-09  Granting two accessory structure zoning variances (setback and area) to Tornatore
              and Barrile residence located at 10516 Yankee Ridge Drive.
              Granting multiple zoning variances (lot depth, accessory structure setback and
2609 8-17-09  building materials, fence height) to the Richard Plummer residence located at 230
              Pfaff Drive.
              Approving a major PUD change for the installation of wall signage on the southern
2610 8-17-09  facades of the outlot retail buildings located on Lots 1 and 2 of the Prairie
              Crossings Re- subdivision along U.S. Route 30.
              Granting multiple zoning variances (lot width, parking, interior side yard
2611 9-8-09   setback, rear yard accessory structure setback) to Munizzo's Gelateria/ Espresso
              Bar located at 3 North Oak Street.
2612 9-8-09   Granting two special use permits (carryout restaurant and outdoor seating) to
              Munizzo's Gelateria/ Espresso Bar.
2613 9-8-09   Granting an accessory structure area variance to Roseland Homes, Inc., to permit
              the construction of a 24' x 26' outdoor sports court at 20025 Aine Drive.
              Granting an accessory structure area variance to permit the construction of a 17'
2614 9-21-09  x 17' outdoor cabana in the rear yard of the Fiorella residence located at 22560
              Home Court.
              Granting two special use permits (to allow for liquor sales in connection with a
2615 10-5-09  full-service restaurant, and to allow for extended hours of operation until 1:00
              a.m. daily) to Tommy Nevin's Pub located at 9680 Lincoln-Way Lane.
2616 10-5-09  Granting a fence height zoning variance to the John Newell residence located at
              915 North Butternut Circle.
2619 10-19-09 Granting a special use permit for auto repair and service to One Shot Kustoms
              located at 9232 Gulfstream Road, Unit A.
              Granting two special use permits (to allow for liquor sales in connection with a
2620 10-19-09 full-service restaurant, and to for allow extended hours of operation until 1:00
              a.m. daily) to Jameson's Pub located at 9545 St. Francis Road.
2621 11-2-09  Granting a fence height variance to the Alan K. Ludolph residence located at 142
              Pfaff Drive.
2625 11-16-09 Granting two special use permits for a carryout restaurant and outdoor seating to
              the Chipotle Mexican Grill located at 11129 West Lincoln Highway.
2627 11-16-09 Granting a building materials variance to the Viehweg Residence located at 788
              Oakwood Drive.
2628 11-16-09 Granting a front yard setback zoning variance to the Glenn and Lori Smith
              residence located at 21605 Williamsburg Court.
2638 2-16-10  Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to Subway Restaurant,
              603 North La Grange Road (Frankfort Town Center).
              Amending Ord. 2519, which granted a special use permit, to permit installation of
2639 3-2-10   an indoor customer seating area for the Great American Bagel Carry-Out
              Restaurant, 9326 Corsair Road.
              Authorizing three special use permits for liquor sales, extended hours of
2640 3-2-10   operation, and outdoor seating for Entreé Ale House and Eatery, 695 North La
              Grange Road.
              Granting a special use permit for liquor sales to Wine Styles, 20214 South La
2642 3-15-10  Grange Road (Frankfort Commons Shopping Center). (Repealed by Ord. 2657. See
              below.)
              Authorizing two special use permits for liquor sales and extended hours of
2645 4-12-10  operation for Ivory Rose Restaurant/ Piano Bar, 17 Old Frankfort Way. (Repealed
              by Ord. 2688. See below.)
2646 4-12-10  Granting multiple zoning variances to 253 South Hickory Street.
2650 4-26-10  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to the
              Turning Pointe School of Dance, 9645 Lincoln-Way Lane (Units 104 and 105).
2651 5-3-10   Granting a pavement setback variance to the Great American Bagel Carry-Out
              Restaurant, 9326 Corsair Road.
              Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to the
2652 5-17-10  Dance Company, 332-334 North La Grange Road (Frankfort Crossings Shopping
              Center).
2653 5-17-10  Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
              the Big Tuna Restaurant, 19951 South La Grange Road (Hickory Creek Market Place).
2654 6-7-10   Granting a lot coverage variance to 749 Birchwood Road.
2655 6-21-10  Granting a special exception to Bobbie Noonan Child Care, 8717 West Lincoln
              Highway.
2656 6-21-10  Granting two accessory structure setback variances to 212 Hickory Street.
              Repealing Ord. 2642 (see above) and granting a special use permit for liquor
2657 6-21-10  sales to Wine Styles, 20214 South La Grange Road (Frankfort Commons Shopping
              Center).
2659 7-6-10   Granting an interior side yard setback variance to 105 Pfaff Drive.
              Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
2660 7-6-10   Simply Smokin’ BBQ & Grill, 10211 West Lincoln Highway (Brookside Commons Office
              Centre).
              Granting a special use permit for a Planned Unit Development (PUD) for the
2664 7-19-10  Lincoln-Way Area Special Education District Number 843 (southeast corner of
              Willow Street and Colorado Avenue).
              Granting a special use permit for indoor institutional use to the Lincoln- Way
2665 7-19-10  Area Special Education District Number 843 (southeast corner of Willow Street and
              Colorado Avenue).
2666 7-19-10  Granting an accessory structure setback variance to 147 White Street.
2667 7-19-10  Granting a special exception to Lot 157 Walnut Ridge Court, Butternut Creek Woods
              subdivision.
2670 8-16-10  Granting an accessory structure setback variance to 44 West Bowen Street.
2671 8-16-10  Granting multiple variances to 322 West Nebraska Street.
2672 9-7-10   Granting two setback variances to 33 West Lincoln Highway.
2674 9-20-10  Granting a driveway setback variance to 42 East Brown Street.
2675 9-20-10  Granting a front yard setback variance to 21407 English Drive.
2679 10-18-10 Approving a major Planned Unit Development (PUD) change for the Frankfort Commons
              Development (Providence Bank - Lot 4 - 20220 S. La Grange Road).
              Repealing Ord. 2645 (see above) and authorizing two special use permits for
2688 12-20-10 liquor sales and extended hours of operation for Stray Bar Restaurant/ Tavern, 17
              Old Frankfort Way.
2692 2-7-11   Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales for
              Durbin's Pizza located at 14 Elwood Street.
2699 2-22-11  Granting an accessory structure height variance to Christensen residence located
              at 230 S. Center Road.
2706 3-21-11  Granting multiple variances to Winters residence located at 210 Walnut Street.
2707 4-4-11   Granting a special exception variance to Elm Street Associates located at 9875 W.
              Lincoln Highway.
2708 4-4-11   Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to American All State Scrap
              located at 275 E. Industry Avenue.
              Rezoning a portion of the Heritage Bank Subdivision (Lot 2) and Hickory Creek
2711 4-18-11  Northwoods Subdivision (Lot 1) from B-4 Office District to B-2 Community Business
              District.
2712 4-18-11  Granting a special use permit for a planned unit development for Lot 2 of
              Heritage Bank Subdivision and Lot 1 of Hickory Creek Northwoods Subdivision.
2713 4-18-11  Granting a special use permit for auto repair and service to property located at
              the southeast corner of U.S. Route 45 and St. Francis Road.
2714 4-18-11  Granting a fence height variance for Ernst residence located at 8898 Liatris
              Drive.
2715 4-18-11  Granting an accessory structure height variance for the Hogan residence located
              at 201 Kansas Street.
2716 4-18-11  Granting a special use permit for limited retail sales to The Furniture Rack
              located at 9324 Gulfstream Road.
2719 5-16-11  Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to Chipotle Mexican
              Grill located at 11129 W. Lincoln Highway.
              Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales and
2720 5-16-11  a special use permit for outdoor seating to Fajitas Mexican Restaurant located at
              19941 - 423 La Grange Road.
2721 5-16-11  Granting a fence height variance for the Vaziri residence located at 10809
              Swallow Tail Lane.
2723 6-6-11   Approving a major planned unit development change for Phillips Chevrolet located
              at 9700 W. Lincoln Highway.
2724 6-6-11   Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating for Stray Bar Restaurant/Tavern
              located at 17 Old Frankfort Way.
2725 6-20-11  Granting multiple variances for the Gutschenritter residence located at 142
              Walnut Street.
2734 8-8-11   Granting an interior side yard setback variance for Patatech Inc. expansion
              located at 1025 Lambrecht Road.
2735 8-8-11   Approving a major planned unit development change for Lot 2 of Garden Gate
              Crossing Subdivision, Unit 3.
2736 8-8-11   Granting a special use permit for auto repair and service for Southside Collision
              located at 22813 Challenger Road, Unit 1A.
2737 8-22-11  Granting a lot coverage variance for Austin Builders, Inc. located at 22957
              Devonshire Lane.
2738 8-22-11  Granting an accessory structure setback variance for the Charles Ovando residence
              located at 10803 Cardinal Lake Drive.
2739 8-22-11  Granting an accessory structure area variance to the Matthew O'Hagan residence
              located at 21838 Yellow Finch Lane.
2740 9-6-11   Granting a side yard setback variance for Williamson property located at 247 W.
              Nebraska Street.
2741 9-19-11  Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant for Papa John's Pizza
              located at 21114 S. La Grange Road in Frankfort Crossings.
2744 10-3-11  Granting a special use permit for Let It Rip Sports located at 9535 W. Laraway
              Road.
2748 10-17-11 Rezoning Robert D. Watson property located at 23262 S. 88th Avenue from ER Estate
              Residential to AG Agricultural District.
2749 10-17-11 Granting three special use permits for extended hours and outdoor seating to The
              Wild Rover Restaurant located at 20535 S. La Grange Road.
2750 10-17-11 Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
              The Smokey Barque Restaurant located at 20 W. Kansas Street.
2752 11-7-11  Granting a corner side yard setback variance for Ronald Hughes residence located
              at 800 Overlook Drive.
              Granting two special use permits (for restaurant/tavern and extended hours of
2764 1-23-12  operation) to Pete Mitchell’s Bar & Grill located at 21000 South Frankfort Square
              Road, Units M-Q.
2767 3-6-12   Granting two variances (side yard setback and first floor building materials) to
              the Robert and Rachel Ridge residence, 144 Sycamore Lane.
              Approving a major planned unit development change to include the construction of
2776 6-4-12   Mariano’s Fresh Market grocery store on the 8.08-acre Enrico’s/Walgreens
              development located at 21001 South La Grange Road.
              Granting two special use permits (for liquor sales and extended hours of
2777 6-4-12   operation) to Mariano’s Fresh Market grocery store located at 21001 South La
              Grange Road.
              Granting a variance of the required landscape front yard setback requirement and
2781 6-4-12   a special use for outdoor storage to the GFW Maintenance property located at 358
              Center Road.
2782 6-4-12   Granting a side yard setback variance and a lot coverage variance to the John and
              Janice Sabey residence, 137 Oregon Street.
2783 6-18-12  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to the Roma
              Sports Club located at 9325 Gulfstream Road.
              Granting two special use permits (for a carry-out restaurant and outdoor seating)
2784 6-18-12  to Meatheads Burger & Fries located in the Prairie Crossings Shopping Center at
              11143 West Lincoln Highway.
              Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to the Massage Envy Spa
2785 6-18-12  located in the Prairie Crossings Shopping Center at 11057 and 11061 West Lincoln
              Highway.
2786 6-18-12  Granting an accessory structure setback variance to the James and Nancy Ceh
              residence, 311 North Locust Street.
2787 6-18-12  Granting an accessory structure setback variance to the Bruce and Eileen Watson
              residence, 380 East Nebraska Street.
2788 6-18-12  Granting three variances (front yard setback, corner side setback, and lot
              coverage) to the Robert Leonard, Sr., residence, 200 West Nebraska Street.
2791 7-23-12  Granting a side yard setback variance to the Michael and Marla Walker residence,
              887 Glenbarr Lane.
              Granting a major planned unit development change for its re-development project
2794 8-6-12   (driveway expansion, building addition and other facade enhancements) to the
              Currie Motors property located at 9423 West Lincoln Highway.
2795 8-6-12   Rezoning the properties located at 317 and 325 North 95th Avenue from R-2 Single
              Family Residential to B-2 Community Business District.
2796 8-6-12   Granting a special permit for automobile sales to the properties located at 317
              and 325 North 95th Avenue.
              Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales and
2798 8-20-12  a special use permit for outdoor seating to Little Joe’s Pizza, located in the
              Crown Centre shopping plaza at 9645 Lincoln Highway, Suite 107.
              Granting three variances (accessory structure setback, accessory structure
2799 8-20-12  height, and driveway setback) to permit construction of a detached garage and
              associated driveway to the Timothy Heywood residence, 250 Center Road.
2802 9-4-12   Amending Ord. 2688 (see above) to permit extended hours of operation to the Stray
              Bar restaurant/tavern located at 17 Old Frankfort Way.
2804 10-1-12  Granting a building materials variance to the Ralph Eisenbrandt residence, 318
              North Maple Street.
2805 10-1-12  Granting a building materials variance to the David T. Loy residence, 610 Vail
              Drive.
2806 10-1-12  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to the
              National Rhino Sports Academy located at 9426 West Corsair Road.
              Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales (beer and wine) to the K
2807 10-1-12  & S Quick Mart located at 21022 South La Grange Road. (Repealed by Ord. 2815. See
              below.)
2811 10-15-12 Granting a building materials variance to the Kosta and Janice Katsaounis
              residence, 601 North Locust Street.
2812 11-5-12  Granting a building materials variance to the Fordon and Associates, LLC,
              property located at 9935 Folkers Drive.
2813 11-5-12  Granting a building materials variance to the George D. Radcliffe residence, 401
              Hackberry Road.
2815 11-19-12 Repealing Ord. 2807 (see above).
              Granting multiple variances (accessory structure setbacks, driveway setback, and
2816 11-19-12 accessory structure height) to Robert Leonard, Sr., residence, 200 West Nebraska
              Street.
2817 11-19-12 Granting a lot coverage variance to Matthew Harper for property located at 9885
              Folkers Drive.
2818 11-19-12 Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to
              Frankfort Martial Arts & Family Fitness located at 752 Center Road.
              Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales,
2823 12-17-12 and a special use permit for outdoor seating to the Dancing Marlin restaurant
              located on 20590 South La Grange Road.
2829 1-22-13  Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to Walgreens Store No.
              09326 located at 9554 W. Lincoln Highway.
2833 3-18-13  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to Slym Gym
              located at 754 Center Road, within Laraway Center Business Park.
2834 4-8-13   Granting a special use permit for recreational vehicle sales and service to
              Timber View R.V. Center, Inc. located at 21730 S. La Grange Road.
              Rezoning the properties located at 309 N. 95th Avenue and the vacant parcel
2835 4-8-13   immediately south thereof from R-2 Single Family Residential District to B-
              2 Community Business District.
2836 4-8-13   Approving a major Planned Unit Development change for the Currie Motors vehicle
              storage parking lot expansion project located at 9423 W. Lincoln Highway.
2837 4-8-13   Granting a special use permit for automobile sales to the properties located at
              309 N. 95th Avenue and the vacant parcel immediately south thereof.
              Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to Kwon’s
2838 4-29-13  Martial Arts located at 20280-20290 S. La Grange Road within Tuffy Auto
              Development.
2841 6-3-13   Approving a major Planned Unit Development change for the Enrico’s/Walgreens
              development, for Mariano’s Fresh Market located at 21001 S. La Grange Road.
              Granting special use permits for a carry-out restaurant, outdoor seating, and
2842 6-3-13   accessory liquor sales to Noodles and Company Restaurant located at 21075 S. La
              Grange Road.
2843 6-3-13   Granting special use permits for a carry-out restaurant and outdoor seating to
              Jersey Mike’s Restaurant located at 21055 S. La Grange Road.
2844 6-3-13   Granting multiple variances to the Ronald and Cindy Stark residence located at 15
              N. Maple Street.
2845 6-3-13   Granting a fence design and fence height variance to the Gallatin residence
              located at 99 E. Bowen Street.
2846 6-17-13  Granting a special exception for the Sybaris Club located at 7500 W. Lincoln
              Highway.
2847 6-17-13  Granting an accessory structure setback variance to the Terry and Corrie Lee
              residence located at 323 Oregon Street.
2851 7-22-13  Granting a side yard setback variance to the Ray and Terri Rossi residence
              located at 938 Shetland Drive.
2852 7-22-13  Granting a building materials variance to the Carminda Aldeza residence located
              at 8936 Charrington Drive.
2857 8-19-13  Granting multiple variances to the John and Trisha Rachoy residence located at
              217 S. Maple street.
2860 8-19-13  Rezoning the C. Ted Nelson residence located at 23953 S. Harlem Avenue from
              Estate Residential to AG Agricultural.
2861 9-3-13   Granting multiple variances to Historic Creations LLC located at 23 W. Bowen
              Street.
2862 9-3-13   Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to White Street Cafe
              located at 11 S. White Street.
2863 9-3-13   Granting three special use permits to Little Joe’s Pizza Restaurant located at
              20805 S. La Grange Road.
2867 9-16-13  Granting a driveway setback variance to the property located at 217 S. Maple
              Street.
2868 9-16-13  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to Cross
              Fit Redefy, Inc. located at 9227 Gulfstream Road, Unit D.
              Granting a special use permit for the operation of an animal clinic to the
2871 10-7-13  Frankfort Animal Clinic located at 20601 S. La Grange Road within Alsip Home and
              Nursery.
2877 11-4-13  Granting an accessory structure area variance to the George and Sophia Borrelli
              residence located at 23180 Sunburst Point.
2878 11-18-13 Granting two variances to the Steven and Jacqueline Hoffman residence located at
              11875 Topanga Canyon.
2884 12-16-13 Granting multiple variances to the James and Karla Knecht residence located at 99
              S. White Street.
2885 12-16-13 Granting multiple special use permits to Anytime Fitness located at 21134 S. La
              Grange Road, Frankfort Crossing Ctr.
2891 1-21-14  Granting two special use permits for property located at 10351 W. Laraway Road.
2895 2-3-14   Granting multiple variances for property owned by Sam Shuman and Richard Wagner,
              located at 254 Oregon Street.
2898 4-7-14   Granting multiple variances for property owned by 40 Kansas LLC, located at 28 W.
              Kansas Street.
2899 4-7-14   Granting a first floor building materials variance to property owned by Peter
              Vlamis, located at 204 Pacific Street.
2901 4-28-14  Granting a special use permit for large equipment sales and service to property
              owned by Russo Power Equipment, located at 21660 and 21700 S. La Grange Road.
2902 4-28-14  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to property owned by Russo
              Power Equipment, located at 21660 and 21700 S. La Grange Road.
2903 5-5-14   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Aura Bella Salon and
              Spa, located at 20491 S. La Grange Roade, Unit A.
2905 5-5-14   Granting a special use permit for massage services to Choppers Salon, located at
              13 Old Frankfort Way.
2906 5-19-14  Granting an accessory structure setback variance for the Leonard and Ilene Le
              Rose residence, located at 10401 W. Nebraska Street.
2907 5-19-14  Granting a building materials variance for the Patrick Hannigan residence,
              located at 701 Birchwood Road.
2908 6-2-14   Granting an accessory structure area variance for the Scott and Michelle
              Pomykalski residence, located at 22635 Oakfield Drive.
2909 6-23-14  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to
              Frankfort Mixed Martial Arts, located at 21800 S. La Grange Road, Unit A.
2925 7-7-14   Rezoning 26.762 acres located at the southwest corner of U.S. Route 45 and Steger
              Road from Estate Residential (E-R) to Office District (B-4).
              Granting a special use permit for a planned development unit to the Riverside
2926 7-7-14   Medical Center property located at the southwest corner of U.S. Route 45 and
              Steger Road.
2927 7-7-14   Granting multiple special use permits to Build-A-Bun Sandwiches, for property
              located at 6 Elwood Street.
2928 7-7-14   Rezoning certain property located at 21125 S. 94th Avenue from Office District
              (B-4) to Single Family Residential District (R-2).
2931 7-21-14  Granting multiple zoning variances to the Frankfort Public Library District for
              property located at 21119 S. Pfeiffer Road.
2935 8-18-14  Granting a rear yard setback variance for property located at 20493 Magnolia
              Court.
2937 9-2-14   Granting a special use permit to Frankfort Family Auto Repair for property
              located at 22359 S. Center Road.
2938 9-2-14   Rezoning approximately 1.25 acres of village-owned property located at the
              northwest corner of Elwood and White Streets.
2941 9-15-14  Granting multiple special use permits to Roma Sports Club for property located at
              9125 Mark Court, East Point Industrial Park.
2942 9-15-14  Granting a height variance to Roma Sports Club for property located at 9125 Mark
              Court, East Point Industrial Park.
              Granting a special use permit for a drive-thru facility to Panera Bread for
2945 10-6-14  property located at 11069 W. Lincoln Highway, within the Prairie Crossings
              Shopping Center.
              Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
2947 11-3-14  El Pueblito Restaurant, for property located at 9645 Lincoln Way Lane, suite 105/
              107 within the Crown Centre development.
2950 11-17-14 Granting a special use permit for a planned unit development to the Market Street
              West Retail Development located at 20950 S. La Grange Road.
2951 11-17-14 Granting two special use permits to Buona Beef Restaurant for property located at
              20950 S. La Grange Road.
2952 11-17-14 Granting a special use permit for a drive-thru facility to property located at
              20950 S. La Grange Road, building “C” of the Market Street West Development.
2965 3-16-15  Granting a special use permit for internet-based sales to TK Motor Sports,
              located at 10315 Vans Drive, Suite A.
2966 3-16-15  Rezoning certain property located at 8808 Sauk Trail from Estate Residential
              District (ER) to Agricultural District (AG).
2967 3-16-15  Granting a lot area zoning variance to the property located at 8808 Sauk Trail.
2968 3-16-15  Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to Ridge Landscape Services,
              for property located at 8808 Sauk Trail.
2972 6-1-15   Granting multiple zoning variances for property owned by Thomas and Beth Rapcan,
              located at 11 W. Sauk Trail.
2973 6-1-15   Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to Rogers Towing, for property
              located at 161 Ontario Street.
2974 6-15-15  Granting a special use permit to Verizon Wireless, for property located at 8847
              W. Lincoln Highway.
              Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to
2975 6-15-15  Classical martial Arts Academy, located at 21000 S. Frankfort Square Road, Units
              I and J.
              Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for the Cooper Estates
2977 7-6-15   development to permit construction of an additional single family residence on
              property located at 21456 S. 92nd Avenue.
2979 8-17-15  Granting a special use permit to Verizon Wireless for property located at 21814
              S. Elsner Road.
2980 9-8-15   Granting special use permits to Fat Rosie’s Taco & Tequila Bar for property
              located at 28 W. Kansas Street.
2983 9-21-15  Granting an accessory structure variance to the property located at 7949 Big Buck
              Trail.
2984 9-21-15  Granting a lot coverage variance for certain property located at 9733 Dewey
              Circle, Folker’s Estate subdivision.
2985 9-21-15  Granting multiple zoning variances for certain property located at 141 Oak
              Street.
              Rezoning a portion of the Frankfort Commons II development property located at
2986 10-5-15  the southeast corner of U.S. Route 45 and St. Francis Road from E-R Estate
              Residential to B-2 Community Business.
              Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for the Frankfort Commons
2987 10-5-15  II development located at the southeast corner of St. Francis Road and La Grange
              Road.
2988 10-5-15  Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
              certain property located at 9975 W. Lincoln Highway
2989 10-5-15  Granting a building materials variance to certain property located at 595 Vail
              Drive.
              Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
2990 10-5-15  certain property located at 10211 W. Lincoln Highway, Brookside Commons Office
              Centre.
2991 10-5-15  Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to certain property located at
              10211 W. Lincoln Highway, Brookside Commons Office Centre.
2992 10-5-15  Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for the Brookside Commons
              Office Centre development, located at 10211 W. Lincoln Highway.
2996 10-19-15 Granting a special use permit for a daycare center to certain property located at
              9473 W. St. Francis Road.
2997 10-19-15 Granting a major planned unit development (PUD) change to the Berkley Office
              Center development (Kiddie Academy, 9473 W. St. Francis Road).
2998 10-19-15 Granting a side yard setback variance for certain property located at 9325
              Gulfstream Road.
2999 10-19-15 Granting a front yard setback zoning variance for property located at 559
              Aberdeen Road.
3004 12-7-15  Granting a special use permit for auto sales to certain property located at 195
              Industry Avenue.
3007 12-21-15 Granting multiple zoning variances for certain property located at 125 Ash
              Street.
3009 2-1-16   Granting a special use permit for massage services for certain property located
              at 28 Kansas Street, Unit 2A.
3010 2-1-16   Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment and extended
              hours of operation to certain property located at 21000 S. LaGrange Road.
3012 2-16-16  Granting a building materials variance to certain property located at 337
              Sherlock Street.
3013 3-8-16   Granting a major planned unit development (PUD) change to the Hickory Creek
              Market Place Shopping Center, 19965 S. LaGrange Road.
              Granting three special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment,
3014 3-8-16   extended hours of operation, and accessory liquor sales to certain property
              located at 19965 S. LaGrange Road.
              Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for the Garden Gate
3019 4-4-16   Crossing Subdivision (Crown Centre, Phase II - Lot 2 of Garden Gate Subdivision,
              Unit 3).
3020 4-4-16   Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to certain property
              located at Crown Centre, Phase II - Lot 2 of the Garden Gate Subdivision, Unit 3.
3021 4-4-16   Granting special use permits for a restaurant/tavern and extended hours of
              operation to certain property located at 20535 South LaGrange Road.
3022 4-4-16   Granting an accessory structure setback variance from ten feet to five feet for
              certain property located at 249 Willow Street.
3026 4-25-16  Granting an accessory structure setback variance from ten feet to five feet for
              certain property located at 459 W. Nebraska Street.
3027 4-25-16  Granting a special use permit for massage services to certain property located at
              24 Ash Street.
3031 5-16-16  Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment and extended
              hours of operation to certain property located at 2081-2085 S. LaGrange Road.
3032 6-6-16   Granting multiple zoning variances for certain property located at 119 Maple
              Street.
              Granting special use permits for a full service restaurant with liquor sales and
3033 6-6-16   extended hours of operation to certain property located at 9500 W. Lincoln
              Highway.
3034 6-6-16   Granting a rear yard setback variance to certain property located at 891 Ayrshire
              Court.
3038 7-5-16   Granting a side yard setback and lot coverage variance to certain property
              located at 244 W. Nebraska Street.
3042 7-18-16  Granting a minimum lot area zoning variance to property located at 9021 Fey
              Drive.
3043 7-18-16  Granting two zoning variances for property located at 8997 fey Drive.
3044 7-18-16  Granting two zoning variances for property located at 9021 Fey Drive.
3045 8-1-16   Granting a zoning variance to property located at 580 Bankview Drive.
3046 8-1-16   Granting a zoning variance to property located at 34 Smith Street.
3047 8-1-16   Granting multiple zoning variances to property located at 223 Walnut Street.
3050 8-15-16  Granting a special use permit for the operation of an animal clinic to property
              located at 712 Center Road.
3051 8-15-16  Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to property located at
              20857 S. LaGrange Road.
3052 8-15-16  Granting a special use permit for massage services to property located at 20500
              S. LaGrange Road, Suite 200.
3054 9-6-16   Rezoning certain property locate at 31655 S. 108th Avenue from E-R Estate
              Residential to R-2 Single Family Residential.
3055 9-16-16  Rezoning a portion of the Hickory Creek Northwoods Subdivision, 20400 S. LaGrange
              Road, from B-4 and E-R to B-2.
3057 9-19-16  Granting a driveway setback variance to property located at 140 S. Maple Street.
              Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for the Garden Gate
3058 10-3-16  Crossing Subdivision (Crown Centre, Phase II - Lot 2 of the Garden Gate
              Subdivision, Unit 3).
3059 10-3-16  Granting a special use permit for a full service restaurant with liquor sales to
              property located at 41 Old Frankfort Way.
3060 10-3-16  Granting two zoning variances for property located at 527 Aberdeen Road.
3061 10-3-16  Granting a zoning variance to property located at 22809 Mustang Road, Unit A.
3065 10-17-16 Granting a building materials variance to property located at 338 Sherlock
              Street.
3066 10-17-16 Granting a special use permit for massage services to property located at 111 Ash
              Street.
3068 11-7-16  Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for the Frankfort
              Crossing Development (Outlot 2 - 9701 W. Lincoln Highway).
3069 11-7-16  Granting three special use permits to property located at 9701 W. Lincoln
              Highway.
3075 12-19-16 Granting a building materials variance to property located at 231 Oak Street.
3078 2-21-17  Granting multiple zoning variances to certain property located at 202 Ash Street,
              Lot 1.
3079 2-21-17  Granting multiple zoning variances to certain property located at 202 Ash Street,
              Lot 2.
3080 2-21-17  Granting multiple zoning variances to certain property located at 202 Ash Street,
              Lot 3.
3081 3-6-17   Granting a special user permit to certain property located at 9324 Gulfstream
              Road, Unit B.
3082 3-6-17   Granting a variance of the required landscaped front yard for certain property
              located at 8997 to 9069 Fey Drive.
3084 3-20-17  Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to certain property
              located at 20950 S. Lagrange Road.
3087 4-24-17  Granting a special use permit for certain property located at 22829 S. Mustang
              Road, Unit B.
3089 5-1-17   Granting a special use permit for massage services to certain property at 20500
              S. Lagrange Road, Unit 2.
3090 6-5-17   Granting a fence design and fence height variance to certain property located at
              95007 W. Lincoln Highway.
3091 6-5-17   Rezoning certain property located at 12 Smith Street, from F-1 to R-4.
3092 6-5-17   Granting a special use permit for a Planned Unit Development for Blacksmith
              Corner.
3097 6-19-17  Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to certain property located at
              20811 S. Lagrange Road.
3098 6-19-17  Approving a major planned unit development change for Starbucks - 20811 S.
              Lagrange Road.
3102 8-7-17   Granting a special use permit for massage services at 20881 S. Lagrange Road.
3103 8-7-17   Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to certain property located at
              19985 S. Lagrange Road.
3106 8-7-17   Rezoning property located at 445 W. Colorado avenue from E-R to R-2.
3108 8-21-17  Granting a driveway setback variance to property located at 125 Ash Street.
3109 9-5-17   Granting a side yard setback variance to property located at 133 Linden Drive.
3112 9-18-17  Granting an accessory structure area variance to certain property located at
              22604 Limestone Court.
3113 9-18-17  Granting a building materials variance to property located at 423 Nevada Court B.
3114 9-18-17  Granting a first floor building materials variance to certain property located at
              126 Center Road.
3115 9-18-17  Granting a special use permit for indoor institutional use to property located at
              9545 W. Lincoln Highway.
3116 9-18-17  Rezoning certain properties containing more than 581 acres of multiple parcels
              from E-R to A-G.
3119 10-16-17 Granting an accessory structure area variance to property located at 22191
              Chamomile Drive.
3120 10-16-17 Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to property located at
              32 W. Nebraska Street, Unit 1A.
3127 1-16-18  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to property
              located at 750 Center Road.
3130 2-5-18   Granting a special use permit for automobile sales to property located at 1008
              Lambrecht Road.
3131 2-5-18   Granting a fence height variance to certain property located at 20450 LaGrange
              Road.
3133 2-20-18  Granting multiple variances for front and side yard setbacks, lot area coverage,
              and first floor building materials to property located at 140 Walnut Street.
3134 3-5-18   Rezoning certain property located at the southeast corner of LaGrange Road and
              Old Frankfort Way from H-1 to R-4.
3135 3-5-18   Granting special use permit for a PUD to certain property located at the
              southeast corner of LaGrange Road and Old Frankfort Way.
3138 4-2-18   Granting front yard setback variance to property located at 122 Walnut Street.
3139 4-2-18   Granting rear yard setback variance to property located at 122 Walnut Street.
3140 4-2-18   Granting corner side yard setback to property located at 122 Walnut Street.
3141 4-2-18   Granting building materials variance to property located at 122 Walnut Street.
3142 4-2-18   Granting lot coverage variance to property located at 122 Walnut Street.
3146 5-7-18   Approving major PUD change to property located at 9701 W. Lincoln Highway.
3147 5-7-18   Granting special use permits for carry-out restaurant, drive-up service window,
              and outdoor seating to property located at 9701 W. Lincoln Highway.
3148 5-7-18   Granting special use permit for towing service to property located at 10351 W.
              Laraway Road.
3149 5-7-18   Granting building materials and accessory structure height variances to property
              located at 320 S. 95th Avenue.
3150 5-7-18   Granting accessory structure height and setback variances to property located at
              258 Nebraska Street.
3151 5-7-18   Granting side yard setback variance to property located at 1014 N. Butternut
              Circle.
3152 5-7-18   Granting special use permit for message establishment to property located at
              20950 S. Frankfort Square Road, Unit 4A.
3153 5-7-18   Granting special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to property
              located at 9216 Gulfstream Road, Unit A.
              Rezoning from I-1 to I-2 and granting required landscaped front yard and loading
3154 5-7-18   area in front yard variances to property located at East Point Industrial Park,
              Lots 26, 27, 28.
3158 5-21-18  Granting screening of rooftop equipment variance to property located at 9450 W.
              Laraway Road.
3161 7-2-18   Granting two points of access and side yard setback variances to property located
              at 9310 Corsair Road.
3163 7-16-18  Granting special use permit for limited retail sales in association with
              warehouse use to property located at 9401 W. Laraway Road.
3164 7-16-18  Approving major PUD change for Frankfort Commons Shopping Center located at 20230
              S. LaGrange Road.
3165 7-16-18  Granting special use permit for massage establishment to property located at
              20280- 20290 S. LaGrange Road.
3168 9-4-18   Approving major PUD change to Warfield PUD located at 1018 Lambrecht Road and 175
              Industry Avenue.
3169 9-4-18   Approving front yard setback and corner side yard setback variances to property
              located at 122 Walnut Street.
3170 9-4-18   Rezoning certain property located at 11 and 19 N. White Street from R-2 to H-1.
3171 9-4-18   Granting special use permit for PUD to property located at 7, 11, and 19 N. White
              Street.
              Granting special use permits for full service restaurant with liquor sales,
3172 9-4-18   extended hours of operation, and outdoor seating to property located at 7 N.
              White Street.
3173 9-4-18   Granting special use permit for outdoor seating to property located at 11 N.
              White Street.
3175 10-1-18  Approving rear yard and first floor building materials variances to property
              located at 1005 Prestwick Drive.
3176 10-1-18  Granting special use permit for outdoor storage to property located at Lots 4 and
              5 in East Point Industrial Park.
3177 11-5-18  Approving building materials variance to property located at 139 N. White Street.
3178 11-5-18  Granting special use permit for PUD to property located at northwest corner of
              Harlem Avenue and Steger Road.
3181 11-19-18 Granting special use permit for message establishment to property located at
              21195 S. LaGrange Road, Suite 1A.
3182 11-19-18 Granting special use permits for automobile repair and service and automobile
              sales to property located at 10317 Vans Drive.
3185 12-17-18 Granting special use permit for carry-out restaurant to property located at 19
              Ash Street, north unit.
3188 1-22-19  Granting a special use permit to Pashco Automotive located at 9210 Gulfstream
              Road, Unit F.
3189 2-4-19   Granting multiple zoning variances to the Kirsch Residence located at 213 Kansas
              Street.
3190 2-4-19   Granting a side yard setback variance to O’Malley Builders, Inc. located at 20495
              Abbey Drive.
3195 3-4-19   Granting a side yard setback to the Corbett Residence located at 22 Pacific
              Street.
3196 3-4-19   Granting an accessory structure setback variance to the McLean Residence located
              at 140 Walnut Street.
3197 3-4-19   Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to Great American Bagel
              located at 9527 Corsair Road.
              Granting a special use permit for a day care center to The Learning Experience
3198 3-18-19  located at Lot 5 Buona Frankfort Subdivision, commonly known as 20970 S. LaGrange
              Road.
              Approving a major PUD change to the Market Street West retail development, The
3199 3-18-19  Learning Experience, located at Lot 5 Buona Frankfort Subdivision, commonly known
              as 20970 S. LaGrange Road.
3200 4-1-19   Granting accessory structure variances for the LeMahieu Residence located at 445
              Meadow Avenue.
3201 4-1-19   Granting a side yard setback variance for certain property to the Beck Residence
              located at 619 Prestwick Drive.
3202 4-1-19   Granting a special use permit for personal service to Gen and Joe’s Salon located
              at 10179 W. Lincoln Highway.
3203 4-15-19  Granting a building materials variance for the George and Barbara Malcheff
              Residence located at 228 Hamilton Avenue.
3206 5-6-19   Granting a corner side yard setback variance for the Larson Residence located at
              136 S. Maple Street.
3207 5-6-19   Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and indoor entertainment to
              Frankfort Circus Center located at 700 Center Road.
              Amending special use Ordinance No. 2902 granting the expansion of the RV storage
3208 5-6-19   area to Russo Power Equipment/Timber View R.V. located at 21660 and 21700 S. La
              Grange Road.
3212 6-17-19  Granting two zoning variances for the Ash Street Subdivision, Lot 2, part of 202
              Ash Street.
3213 6-17-19  Granting two zoning variances for the Ash Street Subdivision, Lot 3, part of 202
              Ash Street.
3215 7-1-19   Granting two zoning variances for the Ash Street Subdivision, Lot 1, part of 202
              Ash Street.
3218 7-15-19  Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment and extended
              hours of operation to Method Athletics located at 706 Center Road.
3219 7-15-19  Granting two zoning variances for the Courtney Residence located at 233 Hickory
              Street.
3223 8-19-19  Granting special use permits for a restaurant/tavern, accessory liquor sales, and
              outdoor seating to The Wine Thief located at 6 Elwood Street.
3225 9-3-19   Granting a special use permit for an assisted living facility to Cedarhurst
              Senior Living located on Lot 8 in the Prairie Crossings Subdivision.
3226 9-3-19   Approving a special use permit for a PUD to the Cedarhurst of Frankfort Senior
              Living Development located at Lot 8 in Prairie Crossings Subdivision.
3227 9-3-19   Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to Cedarhurst Senior
              Living located at Lot 8 in the Prairie Crossings Subdivision.
3231 10-21-19 Granting two zoning variances for the Malecha Residence located at 124 S. Maple
              Street.
3232 11-4-19  Granting a special use permit for automobile sales to Jeep Connection located at
              1010 Lambrecht Road.
3234 12-2-19  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to
              Classical Martial Arts Academy located at 67 W. Bankview Drive.
              Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment and extended
3235 12-2-19  hours of operation to DY4 Athletics, LLC, D/B/A F45 Training located at 11047 W.
              Lincoln Highway.
3239 1-6-20   Granting a special use permit for automobile repair and service to Midwest Auto
              Shield - 9270 Corsair Road, Units 8 and 17.
3240 1-6-20   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to the Brow Lounge, 109
              Ash Street.
3241 1-21-20  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to SWARMD,
              LLC DBA Crossfit RUA, 9527 Corsair Road, Unit G.
3242 1-21-20  Approving two variances for Gander Builders, 117 Maple Street.
3245 3-2-20   Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment and extended
              hours of operation to Method Athletics, 704 Center Road.
3250 8-3-20   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Equanimity Massage
              and Wellness, 301 N. White Street.
3251 8-3-20   Approving a major PUD change for the Crown Centre Subdivision Lot 2.
3252 8-3-20   Granting an accessory structure variance for Trafton Residence, 115 W. Nebraska
              Street.
3253 8-3-20   Granting an accessory structure variance for Trafton Residence, 115 W. Nebraska
              Street.
3254 8-3-     Granting an accessory structure height variance for Trafton Residence, 115 W.
     20    Nebraska Street.
3255 8-3-     Granting a pavement setback variance for Trafton Residence, 115 W. Nebraska
     20    Street.
3258 8-17-20  Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Hollie’s Massage, 11
              S. White Street, Unit 203.
3263 9-21-20  Granting an accessory structure setback variance for Gutschenritter Residence,
              142 Walnut Street.
3264 9-21-20  Granting a building materials variance for Schwerha Residence, 239 Utah Street.
3265 9-21-20  Granting a building materials variance for Needham Residence, 318 Oak Street.
3269 10-19-20 Granting multiple zoning variances to Sleeman Construction, Inc., 254 Oregon
              Street.
3270 11-2-20  Granting a special use permit for a PUD to the Homestead Commercial Development
              located at the southwest corner of Laraway and Wolf Road.
              Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to certain property located
3271 11-2-20  within the Homestead Commercial Development, southwest corner of Laraway and Wolf
              Road.
3274 11-16-20 Granting a building materials variance to Rowe Residence, 231 Oak Street.
3275 11-16-20 Approving a major PUD change to Phase 3 of the Lighthouse Pointe Development
              (O’Malley Builders - reduction of units from 104 to 87).
3280 12-21-20 Granting a special use permit for automobile sales to Big City Motor Sales, 9227
              Gulfstream Road, Unit H.
3283 2-16-21  Granting a driveway setback variance to the Ziolkowksi residence, 254 Willow
              Street.
3284 3-1-21   Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to Polaris
              Martial Arts, 10850 W. Laraway Road, Unit 3E.
3286 4-5-     Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to The Wine Thief, 6 Elwood
     21    Road.
3287 4-5-21   Granting multiple variances to the Brown residence, 143 Kansas Street.
3288 4-19-21  Granting multiple variances to the Varner residence, 613 Prestwick Drive.
              Approving a major PUD change to Phase 3 of the Lighthouse Pointe Development
3290 5-3-21   (O’Malley Builders - changes to the site plan and exterior architectural
              elevations).
3291 5-3-21   Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to Buford’s BBQ and
              Bourbon, 21112 S. LaGrange Road.
3292 5-3-21   Granting a driveway setback variance to the Bulbrooke residence, 41 N. White
              Street.
3293 5-3-21   Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to the Chef Klaus Bier Stube,
              20827 S. LaGrange Road.
3294 5-3-21   Granting a rear yard setback variance to Multack Eye Care, 22000 Wolf Road.
3295 5-3-21   Granting a fence design and fence height variance to Chelsea Intermediate School,
              22265 S. 80th Avenue.
3296 5-3-21   Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to the Fey & Graefen Industrial
              Park, Lots 10 and 21.
3298 5-17-21  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to Ultimate
              Volleyball, 10850 W. Laraway Road, Units 1-3W.
3302 6-7-21   Granting a first-floor materials variance and a rear yard setback variance to the
              Michau and Bertrand residence, 99 N. White Street.
3303 6-21-21  Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment, and
              extended hours of operation to Method Athletics, 702 Center Road.
3304 6-21-21  Granting a driveway variance to the Rapcan residence, 11 W. Sauk Trail.
              Approving a major PUD change to The Vineyards of Frankfort Retail Center to
3305 7-6-21   accommodate the construction of a 2,550 square foot building for the Abri Credit
              Union, 20533 S. LaGrange Road.
3306 7-6-21   Granting a special use permit for a drive-up service facility for the Abri Credit
              Union, 20533 S. LaGrange Road.
3310 8-16-21  Granting an accessory structure area variance to the Murphy residence, 10650
              Yankee Ridge Drive.
3311 8-16-21  Granting an accessory structure area variance to the Wagner residence, 11258 York
              Drive.
3313 9-7-21   Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation and entertainment to Cheer
              City, 10315 Vans Drive, Units B, C, D, and E.
3314 9-7-21   Granting a special use permit for an animal clinic to Balanced Body Veterinary
              Clinic, 20815 S. LaGrange Road.
3319 9-20-21  Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and entertainment, and
              extended hours of operation to JFZ Fitness, 9975 W. Lincoln Highway, Suite 2.
3320 10-4-2   Granting a special use permit for automobile repair and service to $how & Go
              Kustomz, 161 Ontario Street, Unit 3.
3321 10-18-21 Approving multiple zoning variances for the Warfield/Doogan residence, 49 N.
              White Street.
3322 10-18-21 Approving an accessory structure area variance for the Hampton residence, 11195
              Siena Drive.
3327 11-15-21 Granting a special use permit for massage services to Orthopedic Bodyworks, 20550
              S. LaGrange Road, Suite 230.
3330 12-6-21  Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Hollie’s Massage,
              LLC, 9945 Lincoln-Way Lane, Suite 103.
              Granting a lot width variance and a building materials variance to the Nebraska
3331 12-20-21 Pines Subdivision, 314 W. Nebraska Street, Lot 1, part of PIN 19-09-28-209-004-
              0000.
3332 12-20-21 Granting a building materials variance to the Nebraska Pines Subdivision, 314 W.
              Nebraska Street, Lot 2, part of PIN 19-09-28-209-004-0000.
3335 12-20-21 Rezoning certain property located at 300 S. Maple Street from I-1 PUD to R-4.
3340 2-7-22   Granting a special use permit for outdoor storage to Fey & Graeffen Industrial
              Park Lots 10, 11 and 21.
3341 2-7-22   Granting a special use permit for an indoor use to Chelsea Intermediate School,
              22265 S. 80th Avenue.
3342 2-7-22   Granting a fence design variance to Chelsea Intermediate School, 22265 S. 80th
              Avenue.
3343 2-7-22   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Massage CT, Inc.,
              20499 S. Lagrange Road.
3347 3-7-22   Granting a building materials variance to Kimsey Residence, 240 Hickory Street.
3350 4-4-22   Granting a basement area variance to Quinlan Residence, 247 Hickory Street.
3351 4-4-22   Rezoning certain property located at 22660 S. Harlem Avenue AG and R-2 to R-2.
3352 4-4-22   Granting a special use permit for PUD to Gracepoint Ministries Property, 22660 S.
              Harlem Avenue.
3353 5-16-22  Granting a special use permit for indoor entertainment to Frankfort Arts
              Association/Studio C, 14 Hickory Street, Unit 14B.
3354 5-16-22  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to Stretchlab, 21218 S.
              LaGrange Road.
3355 6-6-22   Granting a rear yard setback variance to Gale Residence, 19948 Lily Court.
3356 6-6-22   Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to PIC and PL Indoor
              Pickleball Facility, 9093 W. Fey Drive.
3358 6-20-22  Granting a building materials variance to LaMarche Residence, 170 Vail Drive.
3360 7-5-22   Granting a service/utility area variance to Chase Bank, 20801 S. LaGrange Road.
3361 8-1-22   Granting a building materials variance and a basement area variance to Root
              Residence, 324 Center Road.
3364 8-15-22  Granting a side yard setback variance and a basement area variance to Norman/
              Miller Residence, 229 N. Locust Street.
3365 8-15-22  Granting a special use permit for personal services to Wildflower Hair Salon and
              Spa, 21195 S. LaGrange Road.
3366 9-6-22   Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to Little Caesars, 20245
              S. LaGrange Road, Suite 3.
3369 9-19-22  Granting multiple zoning variances to Kerley Residence, 25 Carpenter Street.
3370 9-19-22  Granting a special use permit for indoor entertainment to Facen4Ward Venues, LLC,
              20871 S. LaGrange Road.
3371 10-3-22  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to PIC and PL Indoor
              Pickleball Facility, 21800 S. LaGrange Road, Unit B.
3372 10-3-22  Granting a special use permit for an assisted living facility to Oasis Senior
              Living, Inc., 8531 W. Lincoln Highway.
3373 10-3-22  Granting a building materials variance to Oltman Residence, 240 Center Road.
3374 10-3-22  Granting a driveway setback variance to Oltman Residence, 240 Center Road.
3375 10-3-22  Granting a driveway turning radius variance to Oltman Residence, 240 Center Road.
3377 10-17-22 Approving a major PUD change to the Prairie Crossings PUD, Everbrook Academy Day
              Care/Preschool.
3378 10-17-22 Granting special use permits for a day care center/preschool and extended hours
              of operation to Everbrook Academy, 11031 W. Lincoln Highway.
3380 11-7-22  Granting a zoning variance to Plantz Residence, 213 W. Nebraska Street.
3381 11-7-22  Granting multiple zoning variances to Plantz Residence, 213 W. Nebraska Street.
3385 12-19-22 Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and extended hours of
              operation to Big Bear Barbell Club, 22793 S. Citation Road, Unit B.
3386 12-19-22 Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to Tiny Tots Play Café, 20815
              S. LaGrange Road.
3388 1-17-23  Granting a special use permit for accessory liquor sales to Taqueria Manny Chayo,
              21206 S. LaGrange Road.
3390 2-6-23   Rezoning certain property located at the northwest corner of Laraway Road and
              116th Avenue from E- R to R-4.
3392 2-21-23  Granting a rear yard setback variance to Markunas Residence, 700 Birchwood Road.
3393 5-1-23   Granting special use permits for full- service restaurant with liquor sales and
              outdoor seating to Integrus Development, LLC, 7 N. White Street.
3394 5-1-23   Granting special use permits for carry-out restaurant and outdoor seating to
              Integrus Development, LLC, 7 N. White Street.
3395 5-1-23   Granting special use permits for carry-out restaurant and outdoor seating to
              Integrus Development, LLC, 7 N. White Street.
3396 5-1-23   Granting off-street parking requirement variance to 7 N. White Street.
3398 5-1-23   Approving a major PUD change to the PUD at 7, 11, and 19 N. White Street.
3401 6-5-23   Granting multiple variances to Quinlan/Aarts Residence, 99 N. White Street.
3402 6-5-23   Granting a special use permit for personal services to Sage Boutique Salon, 20500
              S. LaGrange Road, Unit 6A.
3403 6-5-23   Granting a special use permit for motorcycle sales/service to Nerradical Ridez,
              LLC, 9503 Gulfstream Road, Unit A.
3406 6-20-23  Granting a special use permit for automobile sales to 86 Degrees Auto Group, LLC,
              9232 Gulfstream Road, Unit C.
3407 6-20-23  Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to Grounded Coffee Bar, 19 Ash
              Street.
3409 7-10-23  Granting a special use permit for Misty Creek PUD, Laraway Road and 116th Avenue.
3410 7-24-23  Granting a special use permit for outdoor seating to El Mexcal Mexican
              Restaurant, 9645 Lincolnway Lane, Suites 105-107.
3412 8-7-23   Granting special use permits for indoor recreation and extended hours to Move
              Pilates Studio, 18 and 20 Elwood Street.
3413 8-7-23   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Veelii Spa, LLC,
              9975 W. Lincoln Highway, Suite 3.
3414 8-7-23   Granting a front yard setback variance to the Plantz Residence, 213 W. Nebraska
              Street.
3415 8-7-23   Granting multiple variances to the Plantz Residence, 213 W. Nebraska Street.
3418 10-2-23  Approving a major PUD change to Hickory Creek Market Place PUD, Sparks Coffee
              Co., Outlot 1E.
3419 10-2-23  Granting multiple special use permits to Sparks Coffee Co., Hickory Creek Market
              Place, Outlot 1E.
3420 10-2-23  Granting multiple variances to the Ruzich Residence, 108 Walnut Street.
3421 10-16-23 Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to 4Ever Yoga and Pilates, 83
              and 87 Bankview Drive.
3422 11-6-23  Granting multiple variance to the Prestwick Country Club, 601 Prestwick Drive.
3423 11-6-23  Granting special use permits for indoor and outdoor recreation to Roma Sports
              Club, 9115 Roma Court.
3424 11-6-23  Granting vehicular access and landscaped front yard setback variances to Roma
              Sports Club, 9115 Roma Court.
3427 1-16-24  Approving a special use permit for a planned development (PUD) to Thrift Home &
              Restoration.
3428 1-16-24  Granting a special use permit for indoor retail sales of goods to Thrift Home &
              Restoration, 21420 S. Harlem Avenue.
3429 1-16-24  Granting special use permits for landscape company and outdoor storage to CNC
              Lawn Care, Inc, 165 Industry Avenue, Unit 3.
3430 1-16-24  Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Sauna Guard Wellness
              Center, 11240 W. Laraway Road.
3431 2-5-24   Granting a special use permit for a planned unit development (PUD) for Olde
              Frankfort Mall.
3432 2-5-24   Granting a special use permit for a full-service restaurant with liquor sales to
              Olde Frankfort Mall.
3433 2-5-24   Granting a zoning variance for Olde Frankfort Mall.
3434 2-5-24   Granting a special use permit for indoor entertainment to Frankfort Arts
              Association, 20 S. White Street.
3435 2-5-24   Granting a special use permit for a full-service restaurant with liquor sales to
              Petite Patate, 116 and 118 Kansas Street.
3436 2-5-24   Granting a special use permit for a vacation rental to Fiddle Leaf Development,
              116 Kansas Street.
3437 2-5-24   Granting multiple zoning variances for Fiddle Leaf Development Illinois, LLC, 116
              and 118 Kansas Street.
3438 2-5-24   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Frankfort Massage
              Therapy, LLC, 20500 S. LaGrange Road, Unit 2S.
3441 3-4-24   Granting a wall massing variance for Ozinga Residence.
3442 3-18-24  Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Magic Massage, LLC,
              19989 S. LaGrange Road.
3443 3-18-24  Granting a building materials variance for Blocker Residence, 296 N. 95th Avenue.
3446 4-8-24   Granting a special use permit for a full-service restaurant with liquor sales to
              Bear Down Barbecue, 20857 and 20859 S. LaGrange Road.
3449 4-22-24  Granting multiple special use permits to Dunkin’, 20400 S. LaGrange Road.
3450 4-22-24  Granting a sign variance to Dunkin’ Commercial Multi- Tenant Building, 20400 S.
              LaGrange Road.
3452 5-6-24   Granting a special use permit for automobile sales for CV, LLC, 9416 Gulfstream
              Road, Suite 2.
3453 5-6-24   Granting two special use permits for Equipmentshare.com, Inc., 9194 Gulfstream
              Road.
3454 5-20-24  Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to Crepology, Inc, 19977
              S. LaGrange Road.
3456 6-17-24  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to Planet Fitness, 20825 S.
              LaGrange Road.
3457 6-17-24  Granting a special use permit for extended hours of operation to Planet Fitness,
              20825 S. LaGrange Road.
              Approving a major change to the Hickory Creek Market Place Planned Unit
3459 7-1-24   Development for the redevelopment of outlot 2B (Chick-fil-a, 20091 S. LaGrange
              Road).
3460 7-1-24   Granting four special use permits to Chick-fil-a, 20091 S. LaGrange Road.
3461 7-1-24   Granting a special use permit for a carry-out restaurant to Tropical Smoothie
              Café, 20245 S. LaGrange Road, Suite 1A.
3462 7-15-24  Approving a major change to the Planned Unit Development for the Currie Motors
              Property, 9423 W. Lincoln Highway.
3463 8-5-24   Granting a special use permit for a massage establishment to Magnolia Massage &
              Facial Spa, LLC, I-5 Old Frankfort Way.
3464 8-5-24   Approving a major change to the Planned Unit Development for Cedarhurst of
              Frankfort Will & Cook Counties, Cedarhurst of Frankfort, 21507 Wolf Road.
3466 9-3-24   Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to Triple Crown Training,
              9426 Corsair Road.
3467 9-3-24   Granting multiple zoning variances for Triple Crown Training, 9426 Corsair Road.
3468 9-3-24   Granting multiple zoning variances for Lanigan Residence, 219 Pacific Street.
3469 10-7-24  Approving a major planned unit development (PUD) change for Frankfort Park
              District’s Main Park, 200 Locust Street.
3471 10-7-24  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development (PUD) to Linden
              Grove Subdivision, 215 Linden Drive.
3472 10-7-24  Granting a special use permit for extended hours (amendment to a special use
              permit granted by Ord. 2863) to Social 45, S. La Grange Road.
3478 11-18-24 Approving a major change to a planned unit development for Patriot Center, Inc.,
              10850 W. Laraway Road.
3480 12-2-24  Granting a special use permit for indoor recreation to The Well Yoga Studio, LLC,
              11 S. White Street, Unit 201.
3481 12-2-24  Granting multiple zoning variances for Cebula Residence, 995 Ironwood Drive.
3484 12-16-24 Rezoning Abbey Woods North Subdivision from E-R (Estate Residential) to R-2
              (Single-Family Residential).
             
 
TABLE XI: STREET ADDITIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for the addition of Wolf Road between the
1711     8-17-98     northerly edge of C.H. 74 (Laraway Road) and extending
                     northerly to U.S. Route 30 to the municipal street system.
                     Assuming jurisdiction of Wolf Road between the northerly
1769     12-6-99     edge of C.H. 74 (Laraway Road) and extending northerly to
                     U.S. Route 30 in its entirety.
                     Providing for the transfer of jurisdictional control of
2856     8-19-13     Center Road in its entirety, from Laraway Road southerly
                     to Steger Road, from the County of Will to the village.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                           Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                 10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 3                 10.06
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 4                 10.06
Ch. 5, Act 85, § 2                 10.06
Ch. 5, Act 120                      31.01,
                                    154.14
Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.      34.03
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.    34.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15             34.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 - 10-40  34.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5             34.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5             34.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)          34.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)          34.05
Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 10-2 et seq.    32.063
Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.    135.02
Ch. 35, Act 200, § 18-185          51.026,
                                    51.116
Ch. 35, Act 636, §§ 5-1 et seq.   33.020
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.   34.18
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§1 et seq.       118.05,
                                    118.06
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.     32.121
                                    10.99,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1             70.04,
                                    152.001
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1           10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14            33.040
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1            33.003
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.1          33.007
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.2          33.007
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.3          33.007
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.4          33.007
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2            33.060,
                                    33.061
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2(d)         33.061
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5            33.002
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6            33.001,
                                    33.004
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-7            33.006
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-8            33.005
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 9-2-1 et seq.   32.002
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.32.069
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12          152.001
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-15.1-1 et seq35.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8           152.001
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2           152.001
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-24          121.03
Ch. 205, Act 510, §§ 0.01 et seq. 120.01
Ch. 205, Act 510, § 7(a)           120.04
Ch. 210, Act 45, §§ 1-101 et seq. 117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105            121.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102           121.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)      121.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-201(v)         52.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-301(c)         118.02,
                                    118.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-401            52.02,
                                    118.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-401(b)(6)      118.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-801            118.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b)        118.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-801(c)(1)(vi)  118.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, §21-801(d)         118.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, §22-501            118.20
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501(r)(l)     118.99
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501(s)        118.22
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§11 et seq.     52.33
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4               52.11
Ch. 225, Act 312, § 10             150.30
Ch. 225, Act 320, §§0.01 et seq.  150.22
Ch. 225, Act 325, §§1 et seq.     152.002
Ch. 225, Act 330, §§1 et seq.     152.002
Ch. 225, Act 460, §§ 1 et seq.    72.01,
                                    115.27
Ch. 225, Act 460, § 1              115.25
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.  135.02
Ch. 230, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
                                    115.40,
Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.     115.42,
                                    135.02
Ch. 230, Act 40, §27               135.05
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.    113.25,
                                    113.92
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-2              113.90
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-4              113.25
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15             113.18
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5              113.25
Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.    112.01,
                                    112.03
Ch. 410, Act 705, § 10-5           136.06
Ch. 415, Act 5, §§1 et seq.       153.32
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.160            153.32
Ch. 415, Act 5, §22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)153.32
Ch. 415, Act 5, §22.2(j)(6)(E)(v)  153.32
Ch. 415, Act 5, §22.2(j)(6)(E)(vi) 153.32
Ch. 430, Act 65, § 1.1             137.01
Ch. 430, Act 66, §§ 1 et seq.     137.05
Ch. 430, Act 66, § 5               137.01
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§1-101 et seq.   52.02
Ch. 615, Act 5, §§5 et seq.       152.002,
                                    152.054
Ch. 615, Act 5, § 18(g)            152.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.  74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116            70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7          74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140.10         74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146            70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3          74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101            70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303            70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-204           70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501           70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503           70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-505           70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.5         70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1501 et seq.74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709           74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 13 et seq.     70.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-102           Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-103           Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-107           Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111           Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(g)        Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-113(a)        Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-113(b)        Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201      121.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6             70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(a)         134.31
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(b)         134.30
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(c)         134.32
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(e)         134.33
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(f)         134.34
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-2             70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(b)       70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(d)       70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(e)       70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §16-1              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §16-3              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §18-1              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §18-2              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §19-1              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §19-3              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §20-1              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §20-1.1            70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §20-2              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §21-1              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§24-1 et seq.    70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §25-1              70.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1             132.08
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1             135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b)          135.06
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§36-1 et seq.    70.04
                                    136.07,
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§1 et seq.     136.20,
                                    136.21
Ch. 720, Act 550, §4               70.04
Ch. 720, Act 550, §5               70.04
Ch. 720, Act 550, §5.1             70.04
Ch. 720, Act 550, §5.2             70.04
Ch. 720, Act 550, §8               70.04,
                                    136.06
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 11             136.06
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 15.2           136.06
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§1 et seq.     136.20,
                                    136.21
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.  136.07
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 201 - 215    136.06
Ch. 720, Act 570, §401             70.04
Ch. 720, Act 570, §402             70.04
Ch. 720, Act 600, §3.5             70.04
Ch. 725, Act 150, §§1 et seq.     70.04
Ch. 730, Act 150, §§1 et seq.     117.07
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1508(b)       94.16
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1508(b-10)    94.16
Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.    131.20
Ch. 760, Act 55, §§ 1 et seq.     72.01
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2              152.101
Ch. 805, Act 110, § 0.01           115.25
Ch. 805, Act 110, § 35             115.25
Ch. 815, Act 5, § 3                135.02
Ch. 815, Act 5, § 8                135.02
Ch. 820, Act 192, § 15(p)          34.04
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
291      4-6-08      T.S.O., Table VI
292      9-9-12      T.S.O., Table VI
295      5-4-14      T.S.O., Table II
343      9-14-25     T.S.O., Table VI
351      4-5-26      T.S.O., Table VI
456      1-17-55     T.S.O., Table IX
458      5-2-55      T.S.O., Table IX
462      9-19-55     T.S.O., Table II
463      10-3-55     92.04
466      7-16-56     T.S.O., Table II
467      7-16-56     T.S.O., Table II
472      4-1-57      T.S.O., Table II
479      10-7-57     T.S.O., Table II
480      10-21-57    T.S.O., Table II
481      4-28-58     T.S.O., Table IX
485      9-15-58     T.S.O., Table II
486      11-17-58    T.S.O., Table VI
491      7-20-59     T.S.O., Table II
492      7-20-59     T.S.O., Table II
496      10-5-59     T.S.O., Table IX
497      11-2-59     T.S.O., Table II
498      11-2-59     T.S.O., Table II
504      1-18-60     T.S.O., Table II
505      2-15-60     T.S.O., Table II
506      2-15-60     T.S.O., Table II
507      2-15-60     T.S.O., Table II
508      2-15-60     T.S.O., Table II
510      5-16-60     T.S.O., Table II
517      10-3-60     T.S.O., Table II
519      11-7-60     T.S.O., Table IX
520      11-7-60     T.S.O., Table II
526      8-7-61      T.S.O., Table II
531      6-18-62     Ch. 71, Sch. IX
532      1-15-62     T.S.O., Table IX
537      11-19-62    T.S.O., Table II
552      8-19-63     T.S.O., Table VI
559      8-2-65      T.S.O., Table IX
561      9-7-65      33.004
562      10-18-65    Ch. 71, Sch. IX
563      11-1-65     T.S.O., Table II
569      1-17-66     31.01
                     90.01 -
571      4-4-66      90.06,
                     90.99
573      5-16-66     T.S.O., Table II
579      11-7-66     T.S.O., Table II
580      4-17-67     T.S.O., Table II
582      6-5-67      T.S.O., Table II
583      6-19-67     T.S.O., Table IX
592      7-17-67     T.S.O., Table II
593      11-20-67    T.S.O., Table II
594      12-4-67     T.S.O., Table II
595      11-20-67    T.S.O., Table II
596      12-4-67     T.S.O., Table II
597      12-4-67     T.S.O., Table II
598      12-4-67     T.S.O., Table II
600      2-19-68     T.S.O., Table II
601      4-1-68      T.S.O., Table II
608      9-9-68      T.S.O., Table II
610      1-20-69     T.S.O., Table II
614      3-3-69      T.S.O., Table VIII
618      4-7-69      T.S.O., Table II
626      8-18-69     T.S.O., Table II
628      8-18-69     33.003
629      8-18-69     33.002
                     92.01,
                     92.06,
633      10-6-69     92.07,
                     92.10, 92-13 -
                     92.15,
                     92.20
637      10-20-69    T.S.O., Table II
640      11-3-69     T.S.O., Table II
641      8-4-69      T.S.O., Table VII
646      2-16-70     T.S.O., Table II
647      2-16-70     T.S.O., Table II
652      3-2-70      T.S.O., Table IX
653      3-2-70      T.S.O., Table V
654      4-6-70      T.S.O., Table II
655      4-6-70      T.S.O., Table VI
658      5-4-70      T.S.O., Table II
659      5-4-70      T.S.O., Table II
                     95.01 -
661      6-1-70      95.09,
                     95.99
673      10-19-70    T.S.O., Table IV
674      10-19-70    T.S.O., Table II
675      10-19-70    T.S.O., Table II
680      12-7-70     T.S.O., Table VII
681      12-7-70     T.S.O., Table II
682      11-16-70    T.S.O., Table IX
683      12-7-70     T.S.O., Table I
686      2-1-71      T.S.O., Table II
687      2-1-71      T.S.O., Table IV
688      2-15-71     T.S.O., Table II
693      3-1-71      T.S.O., Table II
697      4-19-71     T.S.O., Table II
698      2-15-71     T.S.O., Table II
703      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
704      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
705      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
706      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
707      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
708      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
709      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
710      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
711      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
716      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
717      6-7-71      T.S.O., Table II
730      10-19-71    Ch. 71, Sch. IX
733      11-15-71    T.S.O., Table II
735      12-6-71     T.S.O., Table II
737      12-6-71     T.S.O., Table II
739      12-20-71    T.S.O., Table IX
740      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
742      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
743      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
744      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
745      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
746      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
747      1-3-72      T.S.O., Table II
748      2-7-72      T.S.O., Table II
749      2-7-72      T.S.O., Table I
750      2-7-72      T.S.O., Table II
754      2-7-72      T.S.O., Table II
758      3-20-72     T.S.O., Table II
759      5-15-72     T.S.O., Table VIII
760      6-5-72      T.S.O., Table VI
771      7-24-72     T.S.O., Table II
772      7-24-72     T.S.O., Table II
775      8-7-72      T.S.O., Table II
776      8-7-72      T.S.O., Table II
778      9-11-72     T.S.O., Table II
779      9-11-72     T.S.O., Table II
780      9-11-72     T.S.O., Table II
781      9-11-72     T.S.O., Table II
782      9-11-72     T.S.O., Table II
                     91.01 -
                     91.05,
                     91.20 -
785      11-20-72    91.25,
                     91.30 -
                     91.36,
                     91.99
795      12-4-72     T.S.O., Table II
796      12-4-72     T.S.O., Table II
798      12-18-72    T.S.O., Table II
808      2-19-73     T.S.O., Table IX
812      3-19-73     34.01
813      4-16-73     T.S.O., Table II
815      5-7-73      T.S.O., Table II
822      6-4-73      T.S.O., Table II
824      6-18-73     T.S.O., Table II
825      7-2-73      T.S.O., Table II
826      7-2-73      T.S.O., Table II
828      7-16-73     T.S.O., Table VII
838      10-1-73     T.S.O., Table II
843      11-19-73    T.S.O., Table II
845      12-17-73    T.S.O., Table II
846      12-17-73    T.S.O., Table II
847      12-17-73    T.S.O., Table II
853      2-4-74      35.01 -
                     35.05
858      3-4-74      T.S.O., Table II
859      3-18-74     T.S.O., Table II
860      4-1-74      T.S.O., Table II
                     130.01 -
                     130.03,
                     130.99,
                     131.01,
                     131.02,
                     131.30,
                     131.31,
                     131.99,
                     132.01 -
                     132.05,
                     132.20,
                     132.22,
                     133.01,
                     133.02,
862      4-15-74     133.99,
                     134.15 -
                     134.18,
                     134.30,
                     134.36,
                     134.37,
                     134.99,
                     135.01 -
                     135.04,
                     135.99,
                     136.01 -
                     136.04,
                     136.99,
                     137.02 -
                     137.05,
                     137.99
868      7-1-74      150.03,
                     150.99
                     50.01 -
869      7-15-74     50.06,
                     50.99
876      10-7-74     113.03
877      11-21-74    T.S.O., Table II
878      10-21-74    33.001
                     72.01 -
880      2-3-75      72.03,
                     72.99
883      4-21-75     T.S.O., Table II
887      6-16-75     T.S.O., Table II
892      7-21-75     92.13
894      8-4-75      T.S.O., Table IX
895      8-4-75      T.S.O., Table VII
896      8-4-75      150.70
900      10-6-75     T.S.O., Table II
901      11-3-75     T.S.O., Table II
902      11-17-75    T.S.O., Table II
903      12-1-75     T.S.O., Table II
908      2-16-76     32.015 -
                     32.027
                     95.20 -
916      6-21-76     95.31,
                     95.99
921      8-2-76      155.01
925      9-7-76      T.S.O., Table X
926      9-20-76     T.S.O., Table II
931      2-7-77      T.S.O., Table X
941      4-18-77     T.S.O., Table II
942      4-18-77     T.S.O., Table X
943      5-2-77      T.S.O., Table II
944      5-16-77     T.S.O., Table X
945      5-16-77     T.S.O., Table II
946      5-16-77     T.S.O., Table VIII
947      6-6-77      T.S.O., Table II
948      6-6-77      T.S.O., Table X
949      6-6-77      T.S.O., Table X
950      6-6-77      T.S.O., Table VI
953      8-1-77      T.S.O., Table X
958      9-19-77     T.S.O., Table II
963      10-17-77    T.S.O., Table X
964      10-17-77    T.S.O., Table II
965      10-17-77    T.S.O., Table X
966      1-16-78     T.S.O., Table II
967      1-16-78     T.S.O., Table IX
968      1-16-78     T.S.O., Table X
973      12-5-77     T.S.O., Table VIII
977      5-1-78      T.S.O., Table VII
978      5-15-78     T.S.O., Table II
979      5-15-78     T.S.O., Table X
984      7-17-78     T.S.O., Table II
985      7-17-78     T.S.O., Table X
986      8-7-78      T.S.O., Table X
992      11-6-78     T.S.O., Table II
993      11-6-78     T.S.O., Table X
994      11-20-78    T.S.O., Table II
995      11-20-78    T.S.O., Table X
999      3-19-79     T.S.O., Table X
1010     10-18-82    131.15 -
                     131.20
1031     12-3-79     T.S.O., Table IV
1034     2-4-80      T.S.O., Table II
                     93.01 -
1036     2-18-80     93.04,
                     93.99
1049     11-17-80    T.S.O., Table II
1054     2-16-80     11.01
1055     2-16-81     32.040
1057     3-16-81     T.S.O., Table X
1060     4-6-81      31.10
1065     9-21-81     32.001,
                     32.002
                     111.01 -
1068     11-2-81     111.15,
                     111.99
1069     1-4-82      33.006
1070     1-4-82      33.005
1071     1-4-82      T.S.O., Table IV
1074     2-1-82      T.S.O., Table IV
1075     3-15-82     T.S.O., Table X
1080     8-16-82     T.S.O., Table II
1081     8-16-82     T.S.O., Table X
1083     8-16-82     150.02
1085     10-18-82    132.20,
                     132.21
1089     3-21-83     T.S.O., Table VI
                     91.01,
1097     9-19-83     91.05,
                     91.99
1098     10-3-83     T.S.O., Table II
1099     10-17-83    T.S.O., Table X
1102     11-7-83     T.S.O., Table IX
1103     1-3-84      94.10 -
                     94.14
                     113.01,
                     113.02,
                     113.15 -
                     113.26,
                     113.35 -
                     113.44,
1105     12-5-83     113.55 -
                     113.60,
                     113.75 -
                     113.79,
                     113.90 -
                     113.92,
                     113.98,
                     113.99
                     114.01 -
1112     3-19-84     114.12,
                     114.99
        5-11-84     T.S.O., Table V
1124     9-17-84     T.S.O., Table IX
1126     11-19-84    150.01
1129     2-4-85      T.S.O., Table VI
1130     3-4-85      T.S.O., Table II
1137     5-20-85     T.S.O., Table VI
1138     6-17-85     T.S.O., Table IX
1141     8-19-85     113.20
1142     8-19-85     T.S.O., Table IV
1155     4-7-86      T.S.O., Table II
1156     4-7-86      T.S.O., Table IV
1157     6-2-86      T.S.O., Table IV
1162     8-18-86     T.S.O., Table II
1167     8-25-86     T.S.O., Table II
1168     8-22-86     T.S.O., Table X
1170     10-6-86     150.04
1172     10-6-86     T.S.O., Table X
                     113.20,
                     113.56,
1177     4-6-87      113.61 -
                     113.63,
                     113.99
1187     9-9-87      T.S.O., Table II
1188     9-9-87      T.S.O., Table II
1189     9-9-87      T.S.O., Table II
                     112.01 -
1191     9-21-87     112.04,
                     112.99
1192     10-5-87     T.S.O., Table II
1193     10-5-87     T.S.O., Table X
1194     10-5-87     T.S.O., Table II
1196     11-2-87     T.S.O., Table II
1197     11-2-87     T.S.O., Table X
                     150.50 -
1198     11-23-87    150.58,
                     150.99
1199     12-7-87     T.S.O., Table II
1200     12-7-87     T.S.O., Table II
1202     1-18-88     T.S.O., Table X
1203     2-1-88      T.S.O., Table VI
1204     2-16-88     T.S.O., Table X
1205     3-7-88      T.S.O., Table X
1207     3-7-88      T.S.O., Table II
1213     5-2-88      T.S.O., Table II
1214     5-16-88     T.S.O., Table II
1215     5-16-88     T.S.O., Table X
1217     6-6-88      T.S.O., Table X
1221     6-20-88     T.S.O., Table IV
1222     6-20-88     51.040 -
                     51.043
1224     7-18-88     T.S.O., Table II
1225     7-18-88     T.S.O., Table X
1226     7-18-88     T.S.O., Table IX
1227     8-15-88     T.S.O., Table II
1228     8-15-88     T.S.O., Table X
1229     8-15-88     T.S.O., Table IX
1232     9-6-88      51.050 -
                     51.056
1233     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1234     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1235     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1236     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1237     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1238     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1239     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1240     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1241     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1242     9-6-88      T.S.O., Table II
1244     10-17-88    T.S.O., Table II
1245     10-17-88    T.S.O., Table II
1246     10-17-88    T.S.O., Table II
1247     10-17-88    T.S.O., Table II
                     98.01,
                     98.20 -
                     98.25,
                     98.35,
1249     12-5-98     98.45 -
                     98.51,
                     98.60,
                     98.61,
                     98.99
1253     1-30-89     32.040
                     113.56,
1254     3-6-89      113.61 -
                     113.63,
                     113.99
1256     4-3-89      T.S.O., Table II
1259     4-3-89      T.S.O., Table II
1260     4-3-89      T.S.O., Table X
1261     5-15-89     113.18,
                     113.20
1263     6-19-89     113.60
                     96.15 -
1264     6-19-89     96.17,
                     96.99
1265     7-3-89      T.S.O., Table IX
1266     7-3-89      T.S.O., Table IX
1267     7-3-89      T.S.O., Table VII
1270     7-17-89     T.S.O., Table X
1272     9-5-89      96.01,
                     96.99
1276     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1277     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1278     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1279     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1280     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1281     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1282     9-29-89     T.S.O., Table II
1283     10-16-89    T.S.O., Table II
1285     11-6-89     T.S.O., Table IX
1288     12-28-89    T.S.O., Table II
                     110.01 -
1290     1-2-90      110.09,
                     110.99
1291     1-15-90     T.S.O., Table X
1292     4-2-90      T.S.O., Table X
1293     4-2-90      T.S.O., Table X
1294     4-2-90      T.S.O., Table X
1298     5-7-90      T.S.O., Table X
                     50.15 -
1300     6-18-90     50.18,
                     50.99
1301     6-18-90     T.S.O., Table II
1302     6-18-90     T.S.O., Table X
1303     6-18-90     T.S.O., Table II
1304     6-18-90     T.S.O., Table X
1305     6-4-90      T.S.O., Table X
1306     6-4-90      T.S.O., Table X
1308     7-2-90      T.S.O., Table X
                     51.001 -
                     51.003,
                     51.015 -
1311     7-16-90     51.019,
                     51.025 -
                     51.033,
                     51.999
                     51.060 -
                     51.065,
                     51.075,
                     51.076,
                     51.085 -
1312     7-16-90     51.092,
                     51.100 -
                     51.107,
                     51.115 -
                     51.125,
                     51.999
1313     7-16-90     51.135 -
                     51.138
1314     8-6-90      155.01
1317     8-20-90     T.S.O., Table X
1319     9-17-90     150.40
1320     9-17-90     T.S.O., Table II
1321     9-17-90     T.S.O., Table X
1322     9-4-90      T.S.O., Table X
1323     10-1-90     T.S.O., Table X
1326     10-15-90    96.02
1328     10-15-90    51.066
1330     11-5-90     51.028
1331     11-5-90     51.119
1332     11-19-90    T.S.O., Table X
1335     12-3-90     T.S.O., Table X
1336     12-3-90     T.S.O., Table X
1338     2-4-91      T.S.O., Table X
1339     2-4-91      T.S.O., Table X
1340     2-19-91     T.S.O., Table X
1341     2-19-91     T.S.O., Table X
1342     3-4-91      34.15 -
                     34.21
1343     4-1-91      32.060 -
                     32.069
1344     4-15-91     T.S.O., Table II
1347     4-29-91     150.40
1348     5-6-91      T.S.O., Table X
1349     5-6-91      T.S.O., Table X
1354     9-3-91      T.S.O., Table X
1355     9-3-91      T.S.O., Table X
1356     9-3-91      150.53,
                     150.54
1359     9-16-91     T.S.O., Table X
1361     10-21-91    T.S.O., Table VII
1362     10-21-91    T.S.O., Table IV
1363     12-2-91     T.S.O., Table X
1364     12-2-91     T.S.O., Table X
1368     1-6-92      T.S.O., Table X
1369     1-20-92     34.02
1370     1-20-92     T.S.O., Table IV
                     50.25 -
1371     3-16-92     50.31,
                     50.99
1373     4-6-92      T.S.O., Table X
1374     4-6-92      T.S.O., Table X
1375     4-20-90     T.S.O., Table II
1376     4-20-90     T.S.O., Table II
1377     4-20-92     T.S.O., Table X
1378     5-4-92      T.S.O., Table X
1379     5-4-92      T.S.O., Table X
1380     5-18-92     T.S.O., Table IV
1381     6-15-92     113.18
1382     6-15-92     50.40,
                     50.99
1384     7-6-92      T.S.O., Table X
1385     7-6-92      T.S.O., Table X
1386     7-6-92      T.S.O., Table X
1388     8-3-92      T.S.O., Table V
1389     8-3-92      T.S.O., Table V
1390     8-3-92      T.S.O., Table X
1391     9-8-92      T.S.O., Table II
1392     9-8-92      T.S.O., Table X
1393     10-5-92     T.S.O., Table X
1394     10-5-92     T.S.O., Table X
1395     10-5-92     T.S.O., Table X
1396     10-19-92    51.018,
                     51.999
1397     12-8-92     31.11
1402     2-1-93      T.S.O., Table X
1406     3-15-93     T.S.O., Table II
1407     3-15-93     T.S.O., Table II
1408     3-15-93     T.S.O., Table X
1409     3-25-93     T.S.O., Table X
                     115.01 -
                     115.13,
1412     4-19-93     115.25 -
                     115.32,
                     115.99
1414     4-26-93     T.S.O., Table X
1416     4-26-93     T.S.O., Table X
1417     4-26-93     T.S.O., Table X
1418     4-26-93     T.S.O., Table X
1420     5-17-93     T.S.O., Table X
1421     5-17-93     T.S.O., Table X
1422     7-6-93      T.S.O., Table IX
1423     7-19-93     T.S.O., Table X
1424     7-19-93     T.S.O., Table X
1428     8-16-93     31.11
                     113.02,
1429     9-7-93      113.18,
                     113.20
1430     10-4-93     T.S.O., Table II
1431     10-4-93     T.S.O., Table II
1432     10-4-93     T.S.O., Table X
1433     11-1-93     111.07
1434     11-1-93     T.S.O., Table IX
1442     12-6-93     T.S.O., Table X
1444     12-20-93    T.S.O., Table X
1446     2-7-94      T.S.O., Table X
1447     2-7-94      T.S.O., Table X
1448     2-7-94      T.S.O., Table X
1449     3-7-94      150.40
1451     3-21-94     T.S.O., Table III
1452     4-4-94      T.S.O., Table III
                     154.01,
                     154.02,
                     154.10 -
                     154.16,
1454     4-18-94     154.30 -
                     154.33,
                     154.40 -
                     154.48,
                     154.99
                     154.01,
                     154.02,
                     154.10 -
                     154.16,
1455     5-2-94      154.30 -
                     154.33,
                     154.40 -
                     154.48,
                     154.99
1456     5-2-94      T.S.O., Table X
1457     5-2-94      T.S.O., Table X
1458     5-2-94      T.S.O., Table X
1460     6-6-94      T.S.O., Table X
1462     6-6-94      T.S.O., Table X
1463     6-20-94     94.01
1464     6-20-94     T.S.O., Table X
1465     6-20-94     T.S.O., Table X
1469     7-18-94     150.75,
                     150.76
1470     7-18-94     T.S.O., Table X
1471     8-1-94      T.S.O., Table X
1472     8-1-94      T.S.O., Table X
1473     9-6-94      T.S.O., Table X
1474     9-6-94      T.S.O., Table X
1476     9-19-94     51.026
                     150.20 -
1478     10-17-94    150.27,
                     150.99
1479     11-7-94     31.11
                     51.135,
1481     11-7-94     51.137,
                     51.138
1482     11-7-94     T.S.O., Table X
1483     11-7-94     T.S.O., Table X
                     116.01 -
1485     12-5-94     116.04,
                     116.99
1486     12-5-94     T.S.O., Table X
1493     2-21-95     T.S.O., Table II
1494     2-21-95     T.S.O., Table II
1495     2-21-95     T.S.O., Table II
1496     2-21-94     T.S.O., Table X
1497     3-6-95      T.S.O., Table II
1498     3-6-95      T.S.O., Table II
1499     3-6-95      T.S.O., Table X
1500     3-6-95      153.01,
                     153.02
1502     3-20-95     110.03,
                     110.04
1505     4-3-95      50.07
1506     4-3-95      51.018
1507     4-3-95      T.S.O., Table II
1508     4-3-95      T.S.O., Table II
1509     4-3-95      T.S.O., Table X
1510     5-1-95      131.31
1513     5-1-95      T.S.O., Table X
1514     5-1-95      T.S.O., Table X
1516     5-5-95      T.S.O., Table II
1517     5-5-95      T.S.O., Table II
1518     5-15-95     T.S.O., Table X
1520     6-5-95      T.S.O., Table X
1521     6-5-95      T.S.O., Table IX
1522     6-5-95      T.S.O., Table X
1523     6-8-95      T.S.O., Table II
1524     6-8-95      T.S.O., Table X
1528     8-7-95      T.S.O., Table X
1529     8-7-95      T.S.O., Table II
1530     8-7-95      T.S.O., Table II
1531     8-7-95      T.S.O., Table X
1532     8-21-95     T.S.O., Table X
1533     9-5-95      T.S.O., Table II
1534     9-5-95      T.S.O., Table II
1535     9-18-95     150.05,
                     150.99
1536     10-2-95     94.25,
                     94.99
1539     11-6-95     T.S.O., Table IV
1540     11-6-95     T.S.O., Table IX
1541     11-6-95     T.S.O., Table X
1542     11-6-95     T.S.O., Table X
1543     11-6-95     T.S.O., Table IX
1544     11-20-95    T.S.O., Table X
                     115.26 -
1545     12-4-95     115.28,
                     115.30
1550     11-8-95     T.S.O., Table III
1551     1-22-96     T.S.O., Table IV
1552     1-22-96     T.S.O., Table III
1553     1-22-96     T.S.O., Table III
1554     1-22-96     T.S.O., Table III
1555     1-22-96     T.S.O., Table III
1556     2-20-96     157.01
1557     3-4-96      150.20,
                     150.21
1558     3-4-96      T.S.O., Table II
1559     3-4-96      T.S.O., Table II
1560     3-4-96      T.S.O., Table X
1561     3-4-96      T.S.O., Table X
                     154.60 -
1562     3-18-96     154.63,
                     154.99
1563     3-18-96     T.S.O., Table III
1564     4-1-96      150.53
                     158.01 -
                     158.07,
                     158.15,
1565     4-1-96      158.25 -
                     158.31,
                     158.45,
                     158.46,
                     158.99
1566     4-1-96      T.S.O., Table X
1567     4-1-96      T.S.O., Table X
1568     4-1-96      T.S.O., Table X
1569     4-15-96     113.20
                     51.002,
                     51.026,
1570     5-6-96      51.060,
                     51.101,
                     51.103,
                     51.116
1573     5-6-96      T.S.O., Table X
1575     5-20-96     T.S.O., Table II
1576     5-20-96     T.S.O., Table II
1577     5-20-96     T.S.O., Table X
1578     6-3-96      T.S.O., Table IX
1579     6-3-96      T.S.O., Table X
1580     6-3-96      T.S.O., Table X
                     94.10,
                     94.11,
1581     6-17-96     94.13,
                     94.14,
                     94.99
1582     6-17-96     T.S.O., Table X
1584     7-1-96      T.S.O., Table X
1585     7-1-96      T.S.O., Table IX
1588     8-19-96     T.S.O., Table X
1589     8-19-96     T.S.O., Table X
1592     9-16-96     T.S.O., Table X
1593     10-7-96     T.S.O., Table X
1594     10-21-96    T.S.O., Table X
                     150.20,
                     150.21,
                     150.22,
                     150.23,
1595     11-4-96     150.24,
                     150.25,
                     150.26,
                     150.27,
                     150.28
1597     11-18-96    T.S.O., Table II
1598     12-16-96    T.S.O., Table VII
1600     12-16-96    T.S.O., Table III
1601     12-16-96    T.S.O., Table III
1602     12-16-96    T.S.O., Table III
1605     12-16-96    T.S.O., Table X
1606     12-16-96    T.S.O., Table II
1608     1-20-97     T.S.O., Table VII
1609     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table II
1610     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table X
1612     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table II
1613     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table X
1614     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table II
1615     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table II
1616     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table X
1617     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table II
1618     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table II
1619     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table X
1620     2-18-97     T.S.O., Table X
1621     3-17-97     T.S.O., Table IV
1622     3-17-97     T.S.O., Table II
1623     4-7-97      T.S.O., Table II
1624     4-7-97      T.S.O., Table X
1625     4-7-97      T.S.O., Table II
1626     4-7-97      T.S.O., Table II
1627     4-7-97      T.S.O., Table X
1628     4-7-97      T.S.O., Table IX
1629     4-21-97     T.S.O., Table II
1630     4-21-97     T.S.O., Table II
1632     5-5-97      T.S.O., Table X
1633     5-19-97     T.S.O., Table X
1634     6-2-97      T.S.O., Table II
1634A    6-16-97     T.S.O., Table II
1635     6-16-97     T.S.O., Table X
1636     6-16-97     T.S.O., Table II
1637     6-16-97     T.S.O., Table X
1638     7-7-97      T.S.O., Table II
1639     7-7-97      T.S.O., Table X
1640     7-7-97      T.S.O., Table II
1641     7-21-97     36.01 - 36.14
1643     8-4-97      T.S.O., Table X
1644     8-4-97      T.S.O., Table II
1645     8-4-97      T.S.O., Table II
1646     8-4-97      T.S.O., Table X
1647     8-18-97     T.S.O., Table X
1648     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table II
1649     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table II
1650     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table X
1651     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table X
1652     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table II
1653     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table II
1654     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table X
1655     9-8-97      T.S.O., Table X
1659     10-20-97    T.S.O., Table VII
1661     10-20-97    51.066
1662     10-20-97    96.02
1663     10-20-97    T.S.O., Table X
1664     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table II
1665     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table II
1666     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table X
1667     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table IX
1668     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table II
1669     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table II
1670     11-3-97     T.S.O., Table X
1671     11-17-97    T.S.O., Table X
1675     12-15-97    T.S.O., Table II
1676     12-15-97    T.S.O., Table II
1677     12-15-97    T.S.O., Table II
1678     1-5-98      T.S.O., Table II
1679     1-5-98      T.S.O., Table II
                     51.026,
1680     1-20-98     51.116,
                     51.135
1681     1-20-98     Rescinded by Ord. 1694
1682     1-20-98     T.S.O., Table X
1683     1-20-98     T.S.O., Table X
1684     1-20-98     T.S.O., Table X
1685     1-20-98     153.22, 153.24
1686     2-2-98      Ch. 70, Schs. I - IV
1687     2-2-98      T.S.O., Table II
1688     2-2-98      T.S.O., Table II
1689     2-2-98      T.S.O., Table X
1690     3-16-98     T.S.O., Table II
1691     2-16-98     T.S.O., Table II
1692     3-16-98     T.S.O., Table X
1693     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table VI
1694     4-6-98      Rescinding Ords. 990, 1641 (Ch. 36) and 1681
1695     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table II
1696     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table II
1697     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table X
1698     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table II
1699     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table II
1700     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table II
1701     4-6-98      T.S.O., Table X
                     92.02,
                     92.03,
                     92.05,
1702     6-1-98      92.06,
                     92.08,
                     92.11,
                     92.12
                     113.18,
                     113.20,
                     113.41,
1703     6-1-98      113.56,
                     113.62,
                     113.79,
                     113.81,
                     113.93
1704     6-1-98      T.S.O., Table VII
1705     6-15-98     T.S.O., Table X
1706     7-6-98      T.S.O., Table VI
1707     7-6-98      T.S.O., Table X
1708     7-20-98     Ch. 70, Sch. I
1710     8-3-98      T.S.O., Table X
1711     8-17-98     T.S.O., Table XI
1712     8-17-98     T.S.O., Table X
1713     9-8-98      Ch. 70, Sch. V; Ch. 71, Sch. I
1714     9-8-98      T.S.O., Table II
1715     10-5-98     T.S.O., Table X
1716     10-5-98     T.S.O., Table X
1717     10-5-98     T.S.O., Table II
1718     11-2-98     T.S.O., Table X
1719     11-2-98     T.S.O., Table X
1720     11-2-98     T.S.O., Table X
1721     12-21-98    155.01
1722     12-7-98     T.S.O., Table X
1723     12-7-98     T.S.O., Table IX
1727     12-21-98    T.S.O., Table X
1728     1-4-99      T.S.O., Table X
1729     1-4-99      155.01
1730     2-16-99     T.S.O., Table VI
1732     3-1-99      T.S.O., Table II
1733     3-15-99     T.S.O., Table II
1734     3-15-99     T.S.O., Table II
1735     3-15-99     T.S.O., Table X
                     131.32,
                     131.99,
                     132.01,
                     132.07,
1736     4-5-98      132.23,
                     132.99,
                     136.05,
                     136.06,
                     136.07,
                     136.99
1737     4-5-99      T.S.O., Table IV
1738     4-5-99      T.S.O., Table IV
1739     4-19-99     72.99
1740     4-19-99     T.S.O., Table X
1741     5-3-99      T.S.O., Table VII
1742     5-3-99      T.S.O., Table X
1743     6-7-99      T.S.O., Table X
1744     6-7-99      Ch. 70, Sch. III
1746     7-6-99      T.S.O., Table II
1747     7-6-99      T.S.O., Table II
1748     7-6-99      T.S.O., Table X
1750     7-19-99     T.S.O., Table X
1751     7-19-99     T.S.O., Table X
1752     7-19-99     T.S.O., Table X
1753     8-2-99      T.S.O., Table X
1754     8-2-99      T.S.O., Table II
1756     9-7-99      T.S.O., Table X
1757     9-7-99      T.S.O., Table V
1758     10-4-99     T.S.O., Table X
1759     10-4-99     T.S.O., Table II
1760     10-4-99     T.S.O., Table X
1761     10-18-99    T.S.O., Table X
1762     11-1-99     T.S.O., Table X
1763     11-1-99     T.S.O., Table X
1767     12-6-99     Ch. 70, Sch. I
1768     12-6-99     T.S.O., Table IV
1769     12-6-99     T.S.O., Table XI
1770     12-20-99    T.S.O., Table VII
1771     12-20-99    T.S.O., Table X
1772     12-20-99    T.S.O., Table X
1773     1-3-00      T.S.O., Table X
                     Ch. 70, Schs. I,
1774     1-8-00      II,
                     III
1775     1-18-00     T.S.O., Table X
1776     1-18-00     T.S.O., Table X
1777     1-18-00     T.S.O., Table X
1780     2-7-00      T.S.O., Table II
1781     2-7-00      T.S.O., Table II
1782     2-7-00      T.S.O., Table X
1783     2-7-00      T.S.O., Table X
1784     3-6-00      T.S.O., Table X
1785     3-6-00      T.S.O., Table X
1786     3-20-00     T.S.O., Table II
1787     3-20-00     T.S.O., Table II
1788     3-20-00     T.S.O., Table II
1789     3-20-00     T.S.O., Table II
1790     3-20-00     T.S.O., Table X
1791     3-20-00     T.S.O., Table X
1792     4-3-00      35.06
1793     4-3-00      51.019
1794     4-3-00      T.S.O., Table X
1795     4-17-00     73.01 -
                     73.08
1797     4-17-00     T.S.O., Table X
1799     5-1-00      T.S.O., Table X
1800     5-15-00     T.S.O., Table II
1801     5-15-00     T.S.O., Table X
1802     5-15-00     T.S.O., Table X
1803     5-15-00     T.S.O., Table X
1804     5-15-00     T.S.O., Table X
1805     5-15-00     113.20
1806     6-5-00      T.S.O., Table X
1807     6-19-00     T.S.O., Table IV
1808     6-19-00     T.S.O., Table X
1809     6-19-00     T.S.O., Table X
1810     7-3-00      T.S.O., Table IX
1811     7-3-00      T.S.O., Table X
1813     7-3-00      T.S.O., Table X
1815     7-17-00     94.25
1816     7-17-00     115.14
1817     7-17-00     T.S.O., Table X
                     159.01 -
                     159.05,
1818     8-7-00      159.15 -
                     159.23,
                     159.35
1819     8-7-00      32.068
1820     8-7-00      155.01
1821     8-7-00      T.S.O., Table X
1822     9-5-00      T.S.O., Table X
1823     9-5-00      T.S.O., Table X
1824     9-5-00      T.S.O., Table X
1825     10-2-00     T.S.O., Table X
1826     10-2-00     T.S.O., Table X
1827     10-16-00    T.S.O., Table X
1829     11-6-00     T.S.O., Table X
1830     11-6-00     T.S.O., Table X
1831     11-20-00    T.S.O., Table X
1834     12-18-00    T.S.O., Table II
1835     12-18-00    T.S.O., Table II
1836     12-18-00    T.S.O., Table II
1837     12-18-00    T.S.O., Table II
1838     12-18-00    T.S.O., Table X
1839     12-18-00    T.S.O., Table X
1840     1-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1841     1-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1842     1-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1843     1-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1845     2-5-01      T.S.O., Table X
1846     3-5-01      T.S.O., Table X
1847     4-2-01      T.S.O., Table X
1849     4-30-01     T.S.O., Table X
1850     4-30-01     T.S.O., Table X
1852     5-7-01      Ch. 70, Schs. I, II
1853     5-21-01     T.S.O., Table II
1854     5-21-01     T.S.O., Table II
1856     5-21-01     T.S.O., Table X
1857     5-21-01     T.S.O., Table X
1858     5-21-01     T.S.O., Table X
1859     5-21-01     T.S.O., Table IX
1860     6-4-01      51.026,
                     51.116
1861     6-4-01      T.S.O., Table X
1865     7-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1866     7-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1867     7-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1868     7-16-01     T.S.O., Table X
1869     8-20-01     T.S.O., Table X
1870     9-4-01      150.41
1871     9-4-01      Ch. 70, Schs. I - III, V
1872     9-17-01     156.01
1874     10-15-01    T.S.O., Table X
1877     1-7-02      150.20 -
                     150.29
1878     1-7-02      T.S.O., Table VII
1879     1-7-02      72.04,
                     72.05
1880     1-22-02     Ch. 70, Sch. V
1881     2-4-02      T.S.O., Table III
1882     2-4-02      T.S.O., Table X
1883     2-19-02     T.S.O., Table X
1884     3-18-02     T.S.O., Table X
1885     3-18-02     T.S.O., Table X
1886     4-15-02     Chapter 70, Schs. I, II
1887     4-15-01     156.01
1888     4-15-02     156.01
1889     4-15-02     T.S.O., Table X
1890     5-6-02      Ch. 71, Sch. I
1891     5-6-02      T.S.O., Table X
1892     5-6-02      T.S.O., Table X
1893     5-6-02      T.S.O., Table X
1894     5-6-02      T.S.O., Table X
1895     5-20-02     T.S.O., Table X
1896     5-20-02     T.S.O., Table X
1898     6-3-02      51.135
1899     6-3-02      111.07
1900     6-17-02     113.20,
                     113.81
1901     6-17-02     T.S.O., Table X
1902     6-17-02     T.S.O., Table X
1904     8-1-02      T.S.O., Table X
1905     7-1-02      T.S.O., Table X
1906     7-15-02     T.S.O., Table X
1909     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table II
1911     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table II
1913     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table II
1915     8-30-02     T.S.O., Table II
1917     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table II
1918     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table X
1919     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table X
1920     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table X
1921     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table X
1922     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table X
1923     8-5-02      T.S.O., Table X
1925     8-19-02     T.S.O., Table II
1926     8-19-02     T.S.O., Table X
1927     8-19-02     T.S.O., Table X
1928     8-19-02     T.S.O., Table X
1929     9-3-02      T.S.O., Table X
1930     9-16-02     T.S.O., Table X
1931     9-16-02     T.S.O., Table IX
1932     10-7-02     T.S.O., Table X
1933     10-7-02     T.S.O., Table X
1934     10-7-02     T.S.O., Table X
1935     10-21-02    T.S.O., Table X
1936     10-21-02    T.S.O., Table X
1938     11-4-02     T.S.O., Table II
1939     11-18-02    T.S.O., Table X
1941     12-2-02     T.S.O., Table III
1942     12-2-02     T.S.O., Table III
                     50.99,
                     51.999,
                     72.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
                     92.99,
                     93.99,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
                     96.15,
                     96.99,
                     98.99,
                     110.99,
                     111.99,
                     112.99,
1943     12-2-02     113.99,
                     114.99,
                     115.99,
                     116.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.99,
                     132.99,
                     133.99,
                     134.99,
                     135.99,
                     136.99,
                     137.99,
                     150.99,
                     153.99,
                     154.99,
                     158.99
                     70.01 -
1944     12-2-02     70.03,
                     Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     VI
1945     12-16-02    155.01
1946     12-16-02    T.S.O. X
1947     12-16-02    T.S.O. X
1948     1-21-03     T.S.O. X
1949     2-3-03      T.S.O. X
1951     3-3-03      150.40
1952     3-3-03      T.S.O. II
1953     3-3-03      T.S.O. II
1954     3-3-03      T.S.O. X
1955     3-3-03      T.S.O. X
1956     3-17-03     T.S.O. IV
1957     3-17-03     T.S.O. X
1958     3-17-03     T.S.O. X
1959     3-17-03     T.S.O. X
                     70.03,
1960     4-7-03      Ch. 71, Sch. I,
                     Sch. II,
                     Sch. III
1963     4-7-03      T.S.O. X
1964     4-7-03      T.S.O. X
1965     4-7-03      T.S.O. X
1966     4-28-03     T.S.O. II
1967     4-28-03     T.S.O. II
1968     4-28-03     T.S.O. II
1969     4-28-03     T.S.O. II
1970     4-28-03     T.S.O. X
1971     4-28-03     T.S.O. X
1972     5-19-03     T.S.O. X
1974     6-2-03      T.S.O. X
1975     6-2-03      T.S.O. X
1976     6-16-03     T.S.O. II
1977     6-16-03     T.S.O. II
1978     6-16-03     T.S.O. II
1979     6-16-03     T.S.O. II
1980     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1981     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1982     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1983     6-16-03     T.S.O. II
1984     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1985     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1986     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1987     6-16-03     T.S.O. X
1989     7-7-03      T.S.O. VII
1993     7-7-03      131.33,
                     131.99
1994     7-7-03      T.S.O. X
1995     7-7-03      T.S.O. X
1996     7-7-03      T.S.O. X
1997     7-7-03      T.S.O. X
1998     7-7-03      T.S.O. X
1999     7-21-03     Ch. 71, Sch. I
2000     7-21-03     T.S.O. X
2001     7-21-03     T.S.O. X
2002     7-21-03     T.S.O. X
2003     7-21-03     T.S.O. X
2004     8-4-03      131.34,
                     131.99
2005     8-4-03      51.026
2006     8-4-03      T.S.O. X
2007     8-4-03      T.S.O. X
2008     8-4-03      T.S.O. X
2009     8-18-03     T.S.O. X
2010     8-18-03     T.S.O. X
2011     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2012     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2013     9-2-03      T.S.O. X
2014     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2015     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2016     9-2-03      T.S.O. X
2017     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2018     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2019     9-2-03      T.S.O. X
2020     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2021     9-2-03      T.S.O. II
2022     9-2-03      T.S.O. X
2023     9-15-03     T.S.O. II
2024     9-15-03     T.S.O. II
2025     9-15-03     T.S.O. X
2026     9-15-03     T.S.O. II
2027     9-15-03     T.S.O. II
2028     9-15-03     T.S.O. X
2029     9-15-03     T.S.O. X
2030     10-6-03     T.S.O. IV
2031     10-6-03     T.S.O. V
2032     10-6-03     T.S.O. X
2033     10-6-03     T.S.O. X
2034     11-3-03     T.S.O. X
2035     11-17-03    T.S.O. X
2037     12-15-03    T.S.O. III
2038     12-15-03    T.S.O. III
2039     12-15-03    T.S.O. X
2040     12-15-03    T.S.O. X
2041     12-15-03    T.S.O. X
2042     12-15-03    T.S.O. X
                     70.03,
2043     1-5-04      Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     III
2044     1-20-04     T.S.O. X
2045     1-20-04     T.S.O. X
2046     1-20-04     T.S.O. X
2047     1-20-04     T.S.O. X
2048     2-2-04      Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     III
2049     2-2-04      T.S.O. X
2050     2-2-04      T.S.O. X
2051     2-17-04     T.S.O. II
2052     2-17-04     T.S.O. II
2053     2-17-04     T.S.O. II
2055     2-17-04     T.S.O. X
2056     2-17-04     T.S.O. X
2057     2-17-04     T.S.O. X
2058     2-3-04      Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     II
2060     3-2-04      T.S.O. X
2061     3-2-04      T.S.O. X
2062     3-2-04      T.S.O. X
2063     3-2-04      T.S.O. X
2064     3-15-04     T.S.O. IX
2065     4-5-04      T.S.O. X
                     33.040 -
2066     4-19-04     33.048,
                     33.999
2067     5-3-04      T.S.O. II
2068     5-3-04      T.S.O. II
2069     5-3-04      T.S.O. X
2070     5-3-04      T.S.O. II
2071     5-3-04      T.S.O. II
2072     5-3-04      T.S.O. X
2073     5-3-04      T.S.O. X
2074     5-3-04      T.S.O. X
2075     5-3-04      T.S.O. X
2076     5-17-04     113.20
2077     5-17-04     34.05
2078     5-17-04     T.S.O. II
2079     5-17-04     T.S.O. II
2080     5-17-04     T.S.O. X
2081     5-17-04     70.03,
                     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2082     5-17-04     T.S.O. X
2083     5-17-04     T.S.O. X
2084     5-17-04     T.S.O. X
2086     6-7-04      T.S.O. X
2087     6-7-04      T.S.O. X
2088     6-7-04      T.S.O. X
2089     6-21-04     113.20
2090     6-21-04     T.S.O. X
2091     7-6-04      155.01
2092     7-6-04      T.S.O. X
2094     7-19-04     T.S.O. II
2095     7-19-04     T.S.O. II
2096     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2097     7-19-04     T.S.O. II
2098     7-19-04     T.S.O. II
2099     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2100     7-19-04     T.S.O. II
2101     7-19-04     T.S.O. II
2102     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2103     7-19-04     74.01
2104     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2105     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2106     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2107     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2108     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2109     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2110     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2111     7-19-04     T.S.O. X
2113     8-16-04     T.S.O. X
2114     9-7-04      T.S.O. X
2115     9-7-04      T.S.O. X
2116     9-7-04      T.S.O. X
2117     9-20-04     Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     III
2118     9-20-04     T.S.O. X
2119     9-20-04     T.S.O. X
2120     10-4-04     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     II
2121     10-4-04     T.S.O. X
2122     10-4-04     T.S.O. X
2123     10-18-04    113.20
2124     10-18-04    T.S.O. X
2125     10-18-04    T.S.O. X
2126     10-18-04    T.S.O. X
                     70.03,
2127     11-1-04     Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     III
2128     11-15-04    150.22
2129     11-15-04    T.S.O. X
2130     11-15-04    T.S.O. X
2134     12-6-04     T.S.O. X
2135     12-20-04    T.S.O. X
2136     12-20-04    T.S.O. II
2137     12-20-04    T.S.O. II
2138     12-20-04    T.S.O. X
2139     12-20-04    T.S.O. II
2140     12-20-04    T.S.O. X
2141     12-20-04    T.S.O. II
2142     12-20-04    T.S.O. II
2143     12-20-04    T.S.O. X
2144     12-20-04    Ch. 71, Sch. V
2146     12-20-04    T.S.O. X
2147     12-20-04    T.S.O. X
2148     1-18-05     T.S.O. III
2149     1-18-05     T.S.O. X
2150     2-7-05      T.S.O. III
2151     2-22-05     T.S.O. IV
2152     2-22-05     T.S.O. X
2153     2-22-05     T.S.O. X
2154     2-22-05     T.S.O. X
2155     2-22-05     T.S.O. X
2156     2-22-05     T.S.O. X
2157     4-4-05      T.S.O. X
2158     4-4-05      T.S.O. X
2159     4-18-05     T.S.O. VII
2160     5-16-05     T.S.O. X
2161     5-16-05     T.S.O. X
2162     5-16-05     T.S.O. X
2163     5-16-05     T.S.O. X
2164     6-6-05      T.S.O. III
2165     6-6-05      T.S.O. III
2166     6-6-05      T.S.O. X
2167     6-20-05     Ch. 71, Sch. I
2169     6-20-05     T.S.O. III
2170     6-20-05     T.S.O. III
2171     6-20-05     T.S.O. X
                     153.03 -
                     153.05,
                     153.15 -
2172     7-5-05      153.20,
                     153.30 -
                     153.39,
                     153.99
2173     7-5-05      T.S.O. X
2174     7-5-05      156.01
2175     7-18-05     T.S.O. VII
2177     7-18-05     T.S.O. X
2178     7-18-05     T.S.O. X
2179     8-1-05      T.S.O. III
2180     8-1-05      T.S.O. III
2181     8-1-05      T.S.O. X
2182     8-15-05     T.S.O. III
2183     8-15-05     T.S.O. III
2184     8-15-05     T.S.O. X
2185     8-15-05     T.S.O. X
2186     8-15-05     T.S.O. X
2187     8-5-05      T.S.O. X
2188     8-15-05     T.S.O. III
2189     8-15-05     T.S.O. X
2190     8-15-05     T.S.O. X
2191     9-6-05      113.20
                     70.03,
2193     9-6-05      Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     V
2195     9-6-05      T.S.O. III
2196     9-6-05      T.S.O. III
2197     9-6-05      T.S.O. X
2198     9-6-05      T.S.O. X
                     70.03,
2199     9-19-05     Ch. 71, Schs. I -
                     III
2200     9-19-05     T.S.O. III
2201     9-19-05     T.S.O. III
2202     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2203     9-19-05     T.S.O. III
2204     9-19-05     T.S.O. III
2205     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2207     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2208     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2209     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2210     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2212     9-19-05     T.S.O. X
2213     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2214     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2215     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2216     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2217     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2218     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2219     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2220     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2221     10-3-05     T.S.O. III
2222     10-17-05    T.S.O. IV
2223     10-17-05    T.S.O. IV
2224     10-17-05    Ch. 71, Schs. I, VI
2225     10-17-05    T.S.O. X
2226     10-17-05    T.S.O. X
2227     10-17-05    T.S.O. X
2228     10-17-05    T.S.O. X
2229     10-17-05    T.S.O. X
2230     10-17-05    156.01
2231     11-7-05     T.S.O. III
2232     11-7-05     T.S.O. III
2233     11-7-05     T.S.O. X
2234     11-7-05     T.S.O. III
2235     11-7-05     T.S.O. III
2236     11-7-05     T.S.O. X
2237     11-7-05     T.S.O. X
2238     11-7-05     T.S.O. X
2239     11-21-05    T.S.O. X
2240     11-21-05    156.01
2241     11-21-05    T.S.O. X
2242     11-21-05    T.S.O. X
                     151.001 -
                     151.007,
                     151.020 -
                     151.025,
                     151.040 -
2243     11-21-05    151.044,
                     151.060 -
                     151.064,
                     151.075 -
                     151.080,
                     151.100 -
                     151.102
                     117.01 -
2246     12-5-05     117.09,
                     117.99,
                     App. A
2247     12-5-05     156.01
2249     12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2250     12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2251     12-19-05    T.S.O. X
2252     12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2253     12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2254     12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2255     12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2256     12-19-05    T.S.O. X
2260     1-9-06      Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     VI
2262     1-9-06      34.05
2264     1-23-06     50.07
                     153.03 -
                     153.05,
                     153.15 -
                     153.20,
2265     2-21-06     153.03 -
                     153.39,
                     153.50 -
                     153.61,
                     153.99
2266     2-21-06     T.S.O. X
2267     2-21-06     T.S.O. X
2268     3-6-06      T.S.O. X
2269     3-6-06      T.S.O. X
2270     3-20-06     T.S.O. X
2271     3-20-06     T.S.O. X
                     158.07,
2272     3-20-06     Ch. 158, App. C,
                     D
2273     4-3-06      72.06
                     113.02,
                     113.16 -
                     113.18,
2274     4-3-06      113.20,
                     113.21,
                     113.36,
                     113.37
2275     4-3-06      113.03,
                     113.04
2276     4-3-06      72.07
2277     4-3-06      72.08
2278     4-3-06      T.S.O. X
2279     4-3-06      T.S.O. X
2280     4-24-06     T.S.O. X
2281     4-24-06     T.S.O. X
2282     4-24-06     T.S.O. X
2283     4-24-06     T.S.O. X
2284     5-1-06      T.S.O. X
                     99.01 -
2286     6-5-06      99.06,
                     99.99
2287     6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2288     6-5-06      T.S.O. II
2289     6-5-06      T.S.O. II
2290     6-5-06      T.S.O. X
2293     6-5-06      113.20
2294     6-19-06     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     II
2295     6-19-06     155.01
2296     6-19-06     T.S.O. X
2297     6-19-06     T.S.O. II
2298     6-19-06     T.S.O. II
2299     6-19-06     T.S.O. X
2301     7-3-06      T.S.O. IV
2302     7-3-06      T.S.O. X
2303     7-17-06     T.S.O. X
2304     7-17-06     T.S.O. X
2305     7-17-06     T.S.O. X
2306     8-7-06      T.S.O. X
2307     8-7-06      T.S.O. X
2308     8-7-06      T.S.O. X
2309     8-7-06      T.S.O. IV
2310     8-21-06     Ch. 71, Sch. I
2311     8-21-06     T.S.O. IV
2312     8-21-06     156.01
2313     8-21-06     156.01
2314     8-21-06     T.S.O. X
2315     8-21-06     31.11
2316     9-5-06      T.S.O. X
2317     9-5-06      T.S.O. X
2319     9-18-06     70.03,
                     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2320     9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
2321     9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
2322     9-18-06     T.S.O. X
2323     10-2-06     T.S.O. X
2324     10-2-06     T.S.O. X
2325     10-16-06    T.S.O. II
2326     10-16-06    T.S.O. II
2327     10-16-06    T.S.O. II
2328     10-16-06    T.S.O. X
2329     10-16-06    T.S.O. X
2330     11-6-06     T.S.O. X
2331     11-6-06     T.S.O. X
2332     11-6-06     T.S.O. X
2333     11-6-06     T.S.O. X
2334     11-6-06     73.03
2336     11-20-06    T.S.O. X
2337     11-20-06    T.S.O. X
2338     11-20-06    T.S.O. X
2340     12-18-06    Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     II
                     158.01 -
                     158.07,
                     158.15,
                     158.25 -
2341     12-18-06    158.31,
                     158.45,
                     158.46,
                     158.99,
                     Ch. 158, App. A -
                     G
2342     12-18-06    156.01
2343     12-18-06    T.S.O. X
                     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
2347     1-8-07      IV,
                     V
2348     1-8-07      T.S.O. II
2349     1-8-07      T.S.O. II
2350     1-8-07      T.S.O. X
2351     1-8-07      T.S.O. X
2352     1-8-07      T.S.O. X
2353     1-22-07     T.S.O. IV
2354     1-22-07     T.S.O. X
2355     1-22-07     T.S.O. X
2356     1-22-07     T.S.O. X
2357     1-22-07     T.S.O. X
2359     2-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2360     2-5-07      156.01
2361     2-5-07      T.S.O. X
2363     2-20-07     Ch. 71, Sch. I
2364     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2365     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2366     3-5-07      T.S.O. X
2367     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2368     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2369     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2370     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2371     3-5-07      T.S.O. X
2372     3-5-07      T.S.O. X
2373     3-5-07      113.20
2374     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2375     3-5-07      T.S.O. II
2377     4-2-07      T.S.O. II
2378     4-2-07      T.S.O. X
2379     4-2-07      T.S.O. X
2380     4-2-07      T.S.O. X
2381     4-2-07      T.S.O. X
2382     4-2-07      113.20
2383     4-2-07      T.S.O. X
2384     4-30-07     150.53
2386     4-30-07     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     VII
2387     4-30-07     T.S.O. X
2388     4-30-07     T.S.O. X
2389     5-14-07     T.S.O. X
2390     5-14-07     T.S.O. X
2391     6-4-07      T.S.O. X
2392     6-18-07     155.01
                     113.03,
2395     6-18-07     113.18,
                     113.45
2396     7-2-07      T.S.O. X
2397     7-2-07      T.S.O. X
2398     7-16-07     T.S.O. II
2399     7-16-07     T.S.O. X
2400     7-16-07     T.S.O. X
2401     7-16-07     T.S.O. X
2402     7-16-07     T.S.O. X
2404     8-6-07      T.S.O. X
2405     8-6-07      T.S.O. X
2406     8-6-07      113.20
2407     9-4-07      T.S.O. II
2408     9-4-07      T.S.O. II
2409     9-4-07      T.S.O. X
2410     9-4-07      T.S.O. X
2411     9-4-07      T.S.O. X
2412     9-4-07      T.S.O. X
                     92.01 -
2414     9-17-07     92.21,
                     92.99
2415     9-17-07     94.11
2416     9-17-07     150.75
2417     9-17-07     150.20
2418     10-1-07     T.S.O. X
2419     10-15-07    T.S.O. X
2420     10-15-07    T.S.O. X
2421     11-5-07     T.S.O. X
2422     11-5-07     T.S.O. X
2423     11-5-07     T.S.O. X
2424     11-5-07     T.S.O. X
2425     11-5-07     T.S.O. X
2426     11-5-07     T.S.O. X
2428     11-19-07    70.03,
                     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
                     138.01 -
2429     12-3-07     138.08,
                     138.99
2432     12-17-07    156.01
2433     12-17-07    T.S.O. X
2435     12-17-07    T.S.O. III
2436     12-17-07    T.S.O. III
2438     1-22-08     T.S.O. II
2439     1-22-08     T.S.O. X
2440     1-22-08     113.20
                     75.01,
2441     2-19-08     75.02,
                     75.99
2443     2-19-08     T.S.O. X
2444     2-19-08     T.S.O. X
2445     3-3-08      T.S.O. II
2446     3-3-08      T.S.O. X
2447     3-17-08     T.S.O. II
2448     3-17-08     T.S.O. II
2449     3-17-08     T.S.O. X
2450     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2451     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2452     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2453     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2454     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2455     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2456     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2457     4-7-08      T.S.O. X
2458     4-28-08     Ch. 71, Sch. I,
                     II
2459     4-28-08     T.S.O. X
2460     4-28-08     T.S.O. X
2461     4-28-08     T.S.O. X
2462     5-5-08      T.S.O. X
2463     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2464     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2465     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2466     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2467     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2468     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2469     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2470     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2471     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2472     5-19-08     T.S.O. X
2475     6-2-08      T.S.O. X
2476     6-2-08      113.20
2477     6-2-08      T.S.O. X
                     118.01 -
                     118.07,
2478     6-16-08     118.20 -
                     118.22,
                     118.99
                     52.01 -
                     52.03,
                     52.10 -
                     52.18,
2479     6-16-08     52.30 -
                     52.37,
                     52.50 -
                     52.53,
                     52.99
2480     6-16-08     150.20
                     Ch. 71, Sch.
2481     6-16-08     I
                     , 
                     VI
2482     6-16-08     T.S.O. X
2483     6-16-08     T.S.O. X
2484     6-16-08     T.S.O. X
2485     6-16-08     T.S.O. X
2490     7-21-08     T.S.O. X
2491     7-21-08     T.S.O. X
2492     7-21-08     T.S.O. X
2493     7-21-08     T.S.O. X
2494     8-4-08      T.S.O. X
2495     8-4-08      156.01
2496     8-4-08      T.S.O. X
2498     8-18-08     72.09
2499     8-18-08     51.067
2500     8-18-08     96.03
2501     8-18-08     T.S.O. II
2502     8-18-08     T.S.O. II
2503     8-18-08     T.S.O. X
2504     8-18-08     T.S.O. X
2505     8-18-08     T.S.O. X
2506     8-18-08     T.S.O. X
2507     8-18-08     T.S.O. X
2508     9-2-08      T.S.O. X
2509     9-2-08      T.S.O. X
2510     9-2-08      T.S.O. X
2511     9-2-08      T.S.O. X
2512     9-2-08      T.S.O. IV
2513     9-15-08     150.30,
                     150.99
2514     9-15-08     T.S.O. X
2515     9-15-08     T.S.O. X
2516     9-15-08     113.20
2517     9-22-08     T.S.O. X
2518     9-22-08     T.S.O. X
2519     10-6-08     T.S.O. X
2520     10-6-08     T.S.O. X
2521     10-6-08     T.S.O. X
2522     10-6-08     T.S.O. IV
2523     10-20-08    72.10
2524     10-20-08    51.066
2525     10-20-08    96.02
2526     10-20-08    T.S.O. X
2527     11-3-08     T.S.O. X
2528     11-3-08     T.S.O. X
2529     11-3-08     T.S.O. X
2530     11-3-08     T.S.O. X
2531     11-3-08     T.S.O. X
2533     11-17-08    T.S.O. II
2534     11-17-08    T.S.O. II
2535     11-17-08    T.S.O. II
2536     11-17-08    T.S.O. X
2537     11-17-08    T.S.O. X
2538     11-17-08    T.S.O. X
2539     11-17-08    T.S.O. X
2540     11-17-08    T.S.O. X
2542     12-1-08     T.S.O. III
2543     12-1-08     T.S.O. III
                     113.18,
2545     12-1-08     113.36,
                     113.41
2546     12-1-08     T.S.O. II
2547     12-1-08     T.S.O. IV
2548     12-1-08     T.S.O. X
2549     12-1-08     T.S.O. X
2550     12-1-08     156.01
2551     12-15-08    T.S.O. III
2552     12-15-08    T.S.O. X
2553     12-15-08    T.S.O. X
2554     12-15-08    T.S.O. X
2557     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2558     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2559     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2560     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2561     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2562     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2563     1-20-09     T.S.O. X
2564     2-2-09      113.20
2565     2-17-09     T.S.O. II
2566     2-17-09     T.S.O. X
2567     2-17-09     T.S.O. X
2568     2-17-09     T.S.O. X
2570     3-16-09     51.004
2571     3-16-09     T.S.O. X
2572     3-16-09     T.S.O. X
2573     3-16-09     T.S.O. X
2574     3-16-09     T.S.O. X
2575     3-16-09     T.S.O. X
2576     3-16-09     T.S.O. X
2577     3-26-09     113.20
2578     4-6-09      T.S.O. II
2579     4-6-09      T.S.O. II
2580     4-6-09      T.S.O. X
2581     4-6-09      T.S.O. X
2582     4-6-09      T.S.O. X
2587     5-18-09     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2588     5-18-09     T.S.O. II
2589     5-18-09     T.S.O. X
2590     5-18-09     T.S.O. X
2591     5-18-09     T.S.O. X
2592     6-1-09      150.41
2593     6-1-09      151.006,
                     151.007
                     150.20 -
2595     6-15-09     150.29,
                     150.40
2597     6-15-09     T.S.O. X
                     119.01 -
2598     7-20-09     119.16,
                     119.99
2600     7-20-09     T.S.O. X
2601     7-20-09     T.S.O. X
2602     7-20-09     T.S.O. X
2603     7-20-09     T.S.O. X
2604     7-20-09     113.20
2606     8-17-09     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2607     8-17-09     T.S.O. IX
2608     8-17-09     T.S.O. X
2609     8-17-09     T.S.O. X
2610     8-17-09     T.S.O. X
2611     9-8-09      T.S.O. X
2612     9-8-09      T.S.O. X
2613     9-8-09      T.S.O. X
2614     9-21-09     T.S.O. X
2615     10-5-09     T.S.O. X
2616     10-5-09     T.S.O. X
2617     10-5-09     113.20
2619     10-19-09    T.S.O. X
2620     10-19-09    T.S.O. X
2621     11-2-09     T.S.O. X
2622     11-2-09     113.20
2624     11-16-09    T.S.O. X
2625     11-16-09    T.S.O. X
2626     11-16-09    156.01
2627     11-16-09    T.S.O. X
2628     11-16-09    T.S.O. X
2629     12-7-09     51.135
2631     12-7-09     T.S.O. III
2632     12-7-09     T.S.O. III
2637     2-16-10     150.24
2638     2-16-10     T.S.O. X
2639     3-2-10      T.S.O. X
2640     3-2-10      T.S.O. X
2641     3-2-10      157.01
2642     3-15-10     T.S.O. X
2643     3-15-10     156.01
2644     3-15-10     113.18,
                     113.20
2645     4-12-10     T.S.O. X
2646     4-12-10     T.S.O. X
2647     4-12-10     113.20
                     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
2649     4-26-10     II,
                     V,
                     VI
2650     4-26-10     T.S.O. X
2651     5-3-10      T.S.O. X
2652     5-17-10     T.S.O. X
2653     5-17-10     T.S.O. X
2654     6-7-10      T.S.O. X
2655     6-21-10     T.S.O. X
2656     6-21-10     T.S.O. X
2657     6-21-10     T.S.O. X
2659     7-6-10      T.S.O. X
2660     7-6-10      T.S.O. X
2661     7-6-10      113.20
2663     11-1-10     70.04
2664     7-19-10     T.S.O. X
2665     7-19-10     T.S.O. X
2666     7-19-10     T.S.O. X
2667     7-19-10     T.S.O. X
2669     8-2-10      113.20
2670     8-16-10     T.S.O. X
2671     8-16-10     T.S.O. X
2672     9-7-10      T.S.O. X
2674     9-20-10     T.S.O. X
2675     9-20-10     T.S.O. X
2676     10-4-10     51.026
2677     10-18-10    Ch. 71, Schs. V,
                     VI
2679     10-18-10    T.S.O. X
2680     11-1-10     T.S.O. IX
2681     11-1-10     135.05
2682     11-15-10    Ch. 71, Sch. III
2684     12-6-10     T.S.O. III
2685     12-6-10     T.S.O. III
2687     12-6-10     113.20
2688     12-20-10    T.S.O. X
2690     1-24-11     32.121
                     151.005,
2691     1-24-11     151.044,
                     151.078,
                     151.080
2692     2-7-11      T.S.O. X
2693     2-22-11     74.02
2694     2-22-11     132.08,
                     132.99
                     115.40 -
2696     2-22-11     115.42,
                     115.99
2697     2-22-11     50.99
                     110.02,
2698     2-22-11     110.03,
                     110.04,
                     110.05
2699     2-22-11     T.S.O. X
2700     2-22-11     Ch. 71, Sch. V
                     53.01,
2701     3-8-11      53.02,
                     53.99
2703     3-21-11     72.09
2704     3-21-11     51.067
2705     3-21-11     96.03
2706     3-21-11     T.S.O. X
2707     4-4-11      T.S.O. X
2708     4-4-11      T.S.O. X
                     120.01 -
2709     4-18-11     120.05,
                     120.99
                     113.20.1,
2710     4-18-11     113.21,
                     113.99
2711     4-18-11     T.S.O. X
2712     4-18-11     T.S.O. X
2713     4-18-11     T.S.O. X
2714     4-18-11     T.S.O. X
2715     4-18-11     T.S.O. X
2716     4-18-11     T.S.O. X
2717     5-16-11     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2718     5-16-11     94.15,
                     94.16
2719     5-16-11     T.S.O. X
2720     5-16-11     T.S.O. X
2721     5-16-11     T.S.O. X
2722     5-16-11     113.20
2723     6-6-11      T.S.O. X
2724     6-6-11      T.S.O. X
2725     6-20-11     T.S.O. X
                     113.18,
2726     6-20-11     113.20,
                     113.99
2728     7-5-11      113.20
2730     7-18-11     T.S.O. V
2731     7-18-11     113.20
2732     8-8-11      T.S.O. III
2733     8-8-11      T.S.O. V
2734     8-8-11      T.S.O. X
2735     8-8-11      T.S.O. X
2736     8-8-11      T.S.O. X
2737     8-22-11     T.S.O. X
2738     8-22-11     T.S.O. X
2739     8-22-11     T.S.O. X
2740     9-6-11      T.S.O. X
2741     9-19-11     T.S.O. X
2743     10-3-11     132.20,
                     132.22
2744     10-3-11     T.S.O. X
                     113.18,
2745     10-3-11     113.20,
                     113.99
2746     10-17-11    T.S.O. IV
2747     10-17-11    T.S.O. II
2748     10-17-11    T.S.O. X
2749     10-17-11    T.S.O. X
2750     10-17-11    T.S.O. X
2751     10-17-11    113.20
2752     11-7-11     T.S.O. X
2753     11-21-11    Ch. 71, Sch. I
2756     12-5-11     T.S.O. III
2757     12-5-11     T.S.O. III
2759     12-5-11     T.S.O. VI
2761     12-19-11    Ch. 71, Sch. I
2762     1-9-12      113.20
                     136.20 -
2763     1-23-12     136.23,
                     136.99
2764     1-23-12     T.S.O. X
2766     2-21-12     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2767     3-6-12      T.S.O. X
2771     4-30-12     73.01 -
                     73.08
2772     4-30-12     72.06
2773     4-30-12     72.01,
                     72.07
2774     5-21-12     32.105
2775     5-21-12     T.S.O. IV
2776     6-4-12      T.S.O. X
2777     6-4-12      T.S.O. X
2778     6-4-12      Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     119.01 -
2779     6-4-12      119.16,
                     119.99
2780     6-4-12      156.01
2781     6-4-12      T.S.O. X
2782     6-4-12      T.S.O. X
2783     6-18-12     T.S.O. X
2784     6-18-12     T.S.O. X
2785     6-18-12     T.S.O. X
2786     6-18-12     T.S.O. X
2787     6-18-12     T.S.O. X
2788     6-18-12     T.S.O. X
2791     7-23-12     T.S.O. X
2792     8-6-12      T.S.O. II
2793     8-6-12      T.S.O. II
2794     8-6-12      T.S.O. X
2795     8-6-12      T.S.O. X
2796     8-6-12      T.S.O. X
2797     8-20-12     32.121
2798     8-20-12     T.S.O. X
2799     8-20-12     T.S.O. X
                     113.18,
2800     8-20-12     113.20,
                     113.99
2801     8-20-12     113.20
2802     9-4-12      T.S.O. X
2804     10-1-12     T.S.O. X
2805     10-1-12     T.S.O. X
2806     10-1-12     T.S.O. X
2807     10-1-12     T.S.O. X
2808     10-1-12     113.20
2809     10-15-12    150.24
2811     10-15-12    T.S.O. X
2812     11-5-12     T.S.O. X
2813     11-5-12     T.S.O. X
2814     11-5-12     113.20
2815     11-19-12    T.S.O. X
2816     11-19-12    T.S.O. X
2817     11-19-12    T.S.O. X
2818     11-19-12    T.S.O. X
2820     12-3-12     T.S.O. III
2822     12-3-12     113.60
2823     12-17-12    T.S.O. X
2824     12-17-12    113.20
2825     1-7-13      T.S.O. IV
                     113.18,
2826     1-7-13      113.20,
                     113.36,
                     113.37
2827     1-7-13      113.20
2829     1-22-13     T.S.O. X
2830     1-22-13     113.20
2831     2-19-13     113.36
2833     3-18-13     T.S.O. X
2834     4-8-13      T.S.O. X
2835     4-8-13      T.S.O. X
2836     4-8-13      T.S.O. X
2837     4-8-13      T.S.O. X
2838     4-29-13     T.S.O. X
2839     4-29-13     156.01
2841     6-3-13      T.S.O. X
2842     6-3-13      T.S.O. X
2843     6-3-13      T.S.O. X
2844     6-3-13      T.S.O. X
2845     6-3-13      T.S.O. X
2846     6-17-13     T.S.O. X
2847     6-17-13     T.S.O. X
2848     7-8-13      T.S.O. VII
2850     7-22-13     72.06
2851     7-22-13     T.S.O. X
2852     7-22-13     T.S.O. X
2856     8-19-13     T.S.O. XI
2857     8-19-13     T.S.O. X
2858     8-19-13     T.S.O. II
2859     8-19-13     T.S.O. II
2860     8-19-13     T.S.O. X
2861     9-3-13      T.S.O. X
2862     9-3-13      T.S.O. X
2863     9-3-13      T.S.O. X
2864     9-3-13      113.20
2866     9-16-13     70.03,
                     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2867     9-16-13     T.S.O. X
2868     9-16-13     T.S.O. X
2869     9-16-13     113.20
2871     10-7-13     T.S.O. X
2872     10-7-13     T.S.O. IX
2873     10-7-13     T.S.O. VIII
                     115.25,
2874     10-21-13    115.27,
                     115.30,
                     115.31
2875     10-21-13    113.18,
                     119.06.1
2877     11-4-13     T.S.O. X
2878     11-18-13    T.S.O. X
2879     11-18-13    113.18,
                     113.20
2884     12-16-13    T.S.O. X
2885     12-16-13    T.S.O. X
2886     12-16-13    113.20
2887     1-6-14      T.S.O. II
2888     1-6-14      119.06.02
2889     1-6-14      119.06.02
2890     1-21-14     36.01 -
                     36.05
2891     1-21-14     T.S.O. X
2892     1-21-14     113.20
2893     1-21-14     113.20
2894     2-3-14      156.01
2895     2-3-14      T.S.O. X
2896     2-18-14     113.20
2897     3-17-14     137.01,
                     137.05
2898     4-7-14      T.S.O. X
2899     4-7-14      T.S.O. X
2900     4-28-14     T.S.O. IV
2901     4-28-14     T.S.O. X
2902     4-28-14     T.S.O. X
2903     5-5-14      T.S.O. X
2904     5-5-14      156.01
2905     5-5-14      T.S.O. X
2906     5-19-14     T.S.O. X
2907     5-19-14     T.S.O. X
2908     6-2-14      T.S.O. X
2909     6-23-14     T.S.O. X
2923     7-7-14      T.S.O. II
2924     7-7-14      T.S.O. II
2925     7-7-14      T.S.O. X
2926     7-7-14      T.S.O. X
2927     7-7-14      T.S.O. X
2928     7-7-14      T.S.O. X
2929     7-21-14     70.03,
                     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2930     7-21-14     150.20
2931     7-21-14     T.S.O. X
2932     7-21-14     113.20,
                     113.99
2933     8-18-14     T.S.O. IV
2934     8-18-14     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2935     8-18-14     T.S.O. X
2936     9-2-14      119.08
2937     9-2-14      T.S.O. X
2938     9-2-14      T.S.O. X
2939     9-15-14     T.S.O. IV
2940     9-15-14     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2941     9-15-14     T.S.O. X
2942     9-15-14     T.S.O. X
2945     10-6-14     T.S.O. X
2946     10-20-14    T.S.O. IV
2947     11-3-14     T.S.O. X
2948     11-3-14     113.20
2949     11-17-14    T.S.O. IV
2950     11-17-14    T.S.O. X
2951     11-17-14    T.S.O. X
2952     11-17-14    T.S.O. X
2955     12-1-14     115.26 -
                     115.31
2956     12-1-14     119.02
2957     12-1-14     156.01
                     113.18,
2958     12-15-14    113.18.1,
                     113.18.2
2959     1-5-15      113.20
2960     1-20-15     T.S.O. IV
2961     1-20-15     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2962     1-20-15     119.06.2
2963     1-20-15     113.20
2964     3-16-15     T.S.O. IV
2965     3-16-15     T.S.O. X
2966     3-16-15     T.S.O. X
2967     3-16-15     T.S.O. X
2968     3-16-15     T.S.O. X
2970     5-18-15     T.S.O. IV
2971     5-18-15     Ch. 71, Sch. V
2972     6-1-15      T.S.O. X
2973     6-1-15      T.S.O. X
2974     6-15-15     T.S.O. X
2975     6-15-15     T.S.O. X
2977     7-6-15      T.S.O. X
2978     7-20-15     T.S.O. IV
2979     8-17-15     T.S.O. X
2980     9-8-15      T.S.O. X
2981     9-8-15      113.20
2982     9-21-15     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2983     9-21-15     T.S.O. X
2984     9-21-15     T.S.O. X
2985     9-21-15     T.S.O. X
2986     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2987     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2988     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2989     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2990     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2991     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2992     10-5-15     T.S.O. X
2993     10-19-15    T.S.O. IV
2994     10-19-15    Ch. 71, Sch. II,
                     VII
2995     10-19-15    T.S.O. VIII
2996     10-19-15    T.S.O. X
2997     10-19-15    T.S.O. X
2998     10-19-15    T.S.O. X
2999     10-19-15    T.S.O. X
3000     11-2-15     113.20
3001     11-16-15    T.S.O. IV
3004     12-7-15     T.S.O. X
3005     12-21-15    36.01 -
                     36.05
                     119.02,
                     119.03,
                     119.06.1,
3006     12-21-15    119.08,
                     119.10 -
                     119.12,
                     119.14
3007     12-21-15    T.S.O. X
3008     1-19-16     150.77,
                     150.99
3009     2-1-16      T.S.O. X
3010     2-1-16      T.S.O. X
3011     2-16-16     51.026
3012     2-16-16     T.S.O. X
3013     3-8-16      T.S.O. X
3014     3-8-16      T.S.O. X
3016     3-21-16     T.S.O. IV
                     113.02,
3017     3-21-16     113.18 -
                     113.18.2
3018     3-21-16     113.20
3019     4-4-16      T.S.O. X
3020     4-4-16      T.S.O. X
3021     4-4-16      T.S.O. X
3022     4-4-16      T.S.O. X
3023     4-4-16      119.06.2
3024     4-25-16     T.S.O. IV
3025     4-25-16     113.18.1,
                     113.18.2
3026     4-25-16     T.S.O. X
3027     4-25-16     T.S.O. X
3028     5-2-16      T.S.O. II
3029     5-2-16      T.S.O. II
3030     5-16-16     T.S.O. IV
3031     5-16-16     T.S.O. X
3032     6-6-16      T.S.O. X
3033     6-6-16      T.S.O. X
3034     6-6-16      T.S.O. X
3035     6-20-16     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3036     6-20-16     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3038     7-5-16      T.S.O. X
                     113.02,
                     113.18 -
3039     7-18-16     113.18.2,
                     113.20,
                     113.41
3040     7-18-16     T.S.O. I
3041     7-18-16     156.01
3042     7-18-16     T.S.O. X
3043     7-18-16     T.S.O. X
3044     7-18-16     T.S.O. X
3045     8-1-16      T.S.O. X
3046     8-1-16      T.S.O. X
3047     8-1-16      T.S.O. X
3048     8-15-16     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3049     8-15-16     T.S.O. IV
3050     8-15-16     T.S.O. X
3051     8-15-16     T.S.O. X
3052     8-15-16     T.S.O. X
3053     9-6-16      T.S.O. II
3054     9-6-16      T.S.O. X
3055     9-16-16     T.S.O. X
3056     9-19-16     36.01 -
                     36.05
3057     9-19-16     T.S.O. X
3058     10-3-16     T.S.O. X
3059     10-3-16     T.S.O. X
3060     10-3-16     T.S.O. X
3061     10-3-16     T.S.O. X
3062     10-3-16     113.20
                     113.18 -
                     113.18.2,
3063     10-17-16    113.20,
                     113.41,
                     113.99
3065     10-17-16    T.S.O. X
3066     10-17-16    T.S.O. X
3067     11-7-16     T.S.O. IV
3068     11-7-16     T.S.O. X
3069     11-7-16     T.S.O. X
3070     11-21-16    Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3071     11-21-16    113.20
3074     12-19-16    Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3075     12-19-16    T.S.O. X
3076     1-17-17     T.S.O. IV
3077     2-21-17     34.03
3078     2-21-17     T.S.O. X
3079     2-21-17     T.S.O. X
3080     2-21-17     T.S.O. X
3081     3-6-17      T.S.O. X
3082     3-6-17      T.S.O. X
3083     3-20-17     T.S.O. IV
3084     3-20-17     T.S.O. X
3085     4-24-17     Ch. 71, Sch. III,
                     V
3086     4-24-17     50.32
3087     4-24-17     T.S.O. X
3088     3-24-17     113.20
3089     5-1-17      T.S.O. X
3090     6-5-17      T.S.O. X
3091     6-5-17      T.S.O. X
3092     6-5-17      T.S.O. X
3093     6-19-17     51.026
3094     6-19-17     50.30,
                     50.40
3095     6-19-17     33.020,
                     33.021
3096     6-19-17     33.060,
                     33.061
3097     6-19-17     T.S.O. X
3098     6-19-17     T.S.O. X
3099     6-19-17     113.20
3100     7-17-17     Ch. 71, Sch. I
3102     8-7-17      T.S.O. X
3103     8-7-17      T.S.O. X
3104     8-7-17      T.S.O. II
3105     8-7-17      T.S.O. II
3106     8-7-17      T.S.O. X
3107     8-7-17      113.20
3108     8-21-17     T.S.O. X
3109     9-5-17      T.S.O. X
3110     9-18-17     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3111     9-18-17     72.04
3112     9-18-17     T.S.O. X
3113     9-18-17     T.S.O. X
3114     9-18-17     T.S.O. X
3115     9-18-17     T.S.O. X
3116     9-18-17     T.S.O. X
3117     10-2-17     Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3118     10-2-17     113.20
3119     10-16-17    T.S.O. X
3120     10-16-17    T.S.O. X
3121     11-20-17    Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3122     11-20-17    T.S.O. IV
3123     11-20-17    113.20
3125     12-18-17    Ch. 71, Sch. VIII
                     113.18,
                     113.18.1,
3126     12-18-17    113.18.2,
                     113.20,
                     113.41
3127     1-16-18     T.S.O. X
3128     1-16-18     113.20
                     Ch. 71, Sch.
3129     2-5-18      I,
                     II
3130     2-5-18      T.S.O. X
3131     2-5-18      T.S.O. X
3132     2-5-18      113.20
3133     2-20-18     T.S.O. X
3134     3-5-18      T.S.O. X
3135     3-5-18      T.S.O. X
3136     3-18-18     T.S.O. IV
3137     3-19-18     72.07
3138     4-2-18      T.S.O. X
3139     4-2-18      T.S.O. X
3140     4-2-18      T.S.O. X
3141     4-2-18      T.S.O. X
3142     4-2-18      T.S.O. X
3143     4-16-18     135.06,
                     135.99
3144     4-16-18     32.075 -
                     32.079
3145     4-16-18     31.02
3146     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3147     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3148     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3149     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3150     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3151     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3152     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3153     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3154     5-7-18      T.S.O. X
3155     5-21-18     T.S.O. IV
3156     5-21-18     150.20 -
                     150.29
3157     5-21-18     72.05
3158     5-21-18     T.S.O. X
                     Ch. 71, Sch.
3159     6-28-18     II,
                     VI
3161     7-2-18      T.S.O. X
3163     7-16-18     T.S.O. X
3164     7-16-18     T.S.O. X
3165     7-16-18     T.S.O. X
3166     7-16-18     T.S.O. VII
3167     8-20-18     T.S.O. IV
3168     9-4-18      T.S.O. X
3169     9-4-18      T.S.O. X
3170     9-4-18      T.S.O. X
3171     9-4-18      T.S.O. X
3172     9-4-18      T.S.O. X
3173     9-4-18      T.S.O. X
3175     10-1-18     T.S.O. X
3176     10-1-18     T.S.O. X
3177     11-5-18     T.S.O. X
3178     11-5-18     T.S.O. X
3179     11-19-19    T.S.O. VII
3180     11-19-18    T.S.O. IV
3181     11-19-18    T.S.O. X
3182     11-19-18    T.S.O. X
3184     12-17-18    119.04,
                     119.06.2
3185     12-17-18    T.S.O. X
3186     12-17-18    33.007
                     152.001 -
                     152.004,
                     152.015 -
                     152.019,
                     152.025 -
                     152.028,
                     152.035 -
                     152.056,
3187     1-22-19     152.065 -
                     152.074,
                     152.080 -
                     152.091,
                     152.100 -
                     152.118,
                     152.125 -
                     152.127,
                     152.998,
                     152.999
3188     1-22-19     T.S.O. X
3189     2-4-19      T.S.O. X
3190     2-4-19      T.S.O. X
3191     2-19-19     T.S.O. IV
3192     2-19-19     31.01
3193     2-19-19     31.03
3194     2-19-19     96.20
3195     3-4-19      T.S.O. X
3196     3-4-19      T.S.O. X
3197     3-4-19      T.S.O. X
3198     3-18-19     T.S.O. X
3199     3-18-19     T.S.O. X
3200     4-1-19      T.S.O. X
3201     4-1-19      T.S.O. X
3202     4-1-19      T.S.O. X
3203     4-15-19     T.S.O. X
3204     4-15-19     T.S.O. IV
3205     4-15-19     T.S.O. IV
3206     5-6-19      T.S.O. X
3207     5-6-19      T.S.O. X
3208     5-6-19      T.S.O. X
3209     6-17-19     158.45
3210     6-17-19     32.075
3211     6-17-19     T.S.O. IV
3212     6-17-19     T.S.O. X
3213     6-17-19     T.S.O. X
3215     7-1-19      T.S.O. X
3216     7-15-19     32.075
3217     7-15-19     Ch. 71, Sch. V
3218     7-15-19     T.S.O. X
3219     7-15-19     T.S.O. X
3220     8-5-19      111.16
                     113.18,
3221     8-19-19     113.18.1,
                     113.20
                     112.01 -
3222     8-19-19     122.04,
                     122.99
3223     8-19-19     T.S.O. X
3224     8-19-19     113.20
3225     9-3-19      T.S.O. X
3226     9-3-19      T.S.O. X
3227     9-3-19      T.S.O. X
                     113.02,
                     113.18,
3228     9-3-19      113.18.1,
                     113.20,
                     113.42,
                     113.43
3229     10-7-19     156.01
3230     10-7-19     156.01
3231     10-21-19    T.S.O. X
3232     11-4-19     T.S.O. X
3234     12-2-19     T.S.O. X
3235     12-2-19     T.S.O. X
3236     12-16-19    119.08,
                     119.10
3237     12-16-19    150.26
3238     12-16-19    157.01
3239     1-6-20      T.S.O. X
3240     1-6-20      T.S.O. X
3241     1-21-20     T.S.O. X
3242     1-21-20     T.S.O. X
3243     2-18-20     T.S.O. IV
                     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
3244     2-18-20     II,
                     VI
3245     3-2-20      T.S.O. X
3246     3-16-20     T.S.O. IV
                     70.03,
3247     6-15-20     Ch. 71, Schs. III,
                     V,
                     VI
3248     7-6-20   T.S.O. IV
3249     7-6-20   72.06
3250     8-3-20      T.S.O. X
3251     8-3-20      T.S.O. X
3252     8-3-20      T.S.O. X
3253     8-3-20      T.S.O. X
3254     8-3-20      T.S.O. X
3255     8-3-20      T.S.O. X
3256     8-17-20     72.11
3257     8-17-20     138.01
3258     8-17-20     T.S.O. X
3259     9-21-20     36.01,
                     36.03
                     136.06,
3260     9-21-20     136.07,
                     136.99
                     154.01,
                     154.02,
                     154.10 -
                     154.16,
3261     9-21-20     154.30 -
                     154.33,
                     154.40 -
                     154.48,
                     154.99
3262     9-21-20     T.S.O. IV
3263     9-21-20     T.S.O. X
3264     9-21-20     T.S.O. X
3265     9-21-20     T.S.O. X
3266     10-5-20     T.S.O. IV
3268     10-19-20    T.S.O. IV
3269     10-19-20    T.S.O. X
3270     11-2-20     T.S.O. X
3271     11-2-20     T.S.O. X
3272     11-2-20     T.S.O. I
                     113.18,
3273     11-16-20    113.18.1,
                     113.20
3274     11-16-20    T.S.O. X
3275     11-16-20    T.S.O. X
3276     11-16-20    113.20,
                     113.99
3277     11-23-20    T.S.O. IV
3278     12-7-20     T.S.O. I
3280     12-21-20    T.S.O. X
3281     12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
3282     2-1-21   113.20
3283     2-16-21     T.S.O. X
3284     3-1-21      T.S.O. X
3285     3-1-21      113.20
3286     4-5-21      T.S.O. X
3287     4-5-21      T.S.O. X
3288     4-19-21     T.S.O. X
                     113.18,
3289     5-3-21      113.18.1,
                     113.20
3290     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3291     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3292     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3293     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3294     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3295     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3296     5-3-21      T.S.O. X
3297     5-17-21     T.S.O. IV
3298     5-17-21     T.S.O. X
3299     5-17-21     113.20
3300     5-17-21     119.06.2
                     Ch. 158, App. A,
3301     5-17-21     B,
                     C,
                     G
3302     6-7-21      T.S.O. X
3303     6-21-21     T.S.O. X
3304     6-21-21     T.S.O. X
3305     7-6-21      T.S.O. X
3306     7-6-21   T.S.O. X
3308     7-19-21     T.S.O. I
3309     8-16-21     T.S.O. IV
3310     8-16-21     T.S.O. X
3311     8-16-21     T.S.O. X
3312     8-16-21     T.S.O. IV
3313     9-7-21      T.S.O. X
3314     9-7-21      T.S.O. X
                     123.01 -
3315     9-20-21     123.09,
                     123.99
3316     9-20-21     T.S.O. II
3317     9-20-21     T.S.O. IV
3318     9-20-21     156.01
3319     9-20-21     T.S.O. X
3320     10-4-21     T.S.O. X
3321     10-18-21    T.S.O. X
3322     10-18-21    T.S.O. X
3323     10-18-21    T.S.O. VII
3324     10-18-21    113.20
3325     11-15-21    Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3326     11-15-21    T.S.O. IV
3327     11-15-21    T.S.O. X
3328     11-15-21    156.01
3330     12-6-21     T.S.O. X
3331     12-20-21    T.S.O. X
3332     12-20-21    T.S.O. X
3333     12-20-21    T.S.O. VI
3334     12-20-21    121.01 -
                     121.06
3335     12-20-21    T.S.O. X
3336     1-3-22      72.02
3337     1-3-22      113.20
                     151.003,
                     151.005,
3338     2-7-22      151.041,
                     151.060,
                     151.065
3340     2-7-22      T.S.O. X
3341     2-7-22      T.S.O. X
3342     2-7-22      T.S.O. X
3343     2-7-22      T.S.O. X
3344     2-7-22      T.S.O. IV
3346     2-7-22      156.01
3347     3-7-22      T.S.O. X
3348     3-7-22      156.01
3349     3-7-22      156.01
3350     4-4-22      T.S.O. X
3351     4-4-22      T.S.O. X
3352     4-4-22      T.S.O. X
3353     5-16-22     T.S.O. X
3354     5-16-22     T.S.O. X
3355     6-6-22      T.S.O. X
3356     6-6-22      T.S.O. X
3357     6-16-22     T.S.O. IV
3358     6-20-22     T.S.O. X
3360     7-5-22      T.S.O. X
3361     8-1-22      T.S.O. X
3362     8-1-22      T.S.O. IV
3363     8-1-22      113.20
3364     8-15-22     T.S.O. X
3365     8-15-22     T.S.O. X
3366     9-6-22      T.S.O. X
3367     9-6-22      T.S.O. IV
3368     9-19-22     T.S.O. IV
3369     9-19-22     T.S.O. X
3370     9-19-22     T.S.O. X
3371     10-3-22     T.S.O. X
3372     10-3-22     T.S.O. X
3373     10-3-22     T.S.O. X
3374     10-3-22     T.S.O. X
3375     10-3-22     T.S.O. X
3376     10-17-22    T.S.O. IV
3377     10-17-22    T.S.O. X
3378     10-17-22    T.S.O. X
3379     11-7-22     T.S.O. I
3380     11-7-22     T.S.O. X
3381     11-7-22     T.S.O. X
3382     11-7-22     113.20
3385     12-19-22    T.S.O. X
3386     12-19-22    T.S.O. X
3388     1-17-23     T.S.O. X
3389     1-17-23     113.20
3390     2-6-23      T.S.O. X
3391     2-21-23     T.S.O. IV
3392     2-21-23     T.S.O. X
3393     5-1-23      T.S.O. X
3394     5-1-23      T.S.O. X
3395     5-1-23      T.S.O. X
3396     5-1-23      T.S.O. X
3397     5-1-23      T.S.O. I
3398     5-1-23      T.S.O. X
3400     5-15-23     Ch. 71, Sch. I,
                     VI
3401     6-5-23      T.S.O. X
3402     6-5-23      T.S.O. X
3403     6-5-23      T.S.O. X
3405     6-20-23     T.S.O. IV
3406     6-20-23     T.S.O. X
3407     6-20-23     T.S.O. X
3409     7-10-23     T.S.O. X
3410     7-24-23     T.S.O. X
3411     7-24-23     113.20
3412     8-7-23      T.S.O. X
3413     8-7-23      T.S.O. X
3414     8-7-23      T.S.O. X
3415     8-7-23      T.S.O. X
3416     9-18-23     50.06
3417     10-2-23     T.S.O. II
3418     10-2-23     T.S.O. X
3419     10-2-23     T.S.O. X
3420     10-2-23     T.S.O. X
3421     10-16-23    T.S.O. X
3422     11-6-23     T.S.O. X
3423     11-6-23     T.S.O. X
3424     11-6-23     T.S.O. X
3425     11-20-23    34.04
3427     1-16-24     T.S.O. X
3428     1-16-24     T.S.O. X
3429     1-16-24     T.S.O. X
3430     1-16-24     T.S.O. X
3431     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3432     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3433     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3434     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3435     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3436     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3437     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3438     2-5-24      T.S.O. X
3439     2-20-24     156.01
3440     2-20-24     T.S.O. VI
3441     3-4-24      T.S.O. X
3442     3-18-24     T.S.O. X
3443     3-18-24     T.S.O. X
3444     3-18-24     T.S.O. IV
3445     4-8-24      156.01
3446     4-8-24      T.S.O. X
3447     4-8-24      T.S.O. IX
3448     4-8-24      T.S.O. IV
3449     4-22-24     T.S.O. X
3450     4-22-24     T.S.O. X
3451     4-22-24     72.06
3452     5-6-24      T.S.O. X
3453     5-6-24      T.S.O. X
3454     5-20-24     T.S.O. X
3455     6-17-24     113.02,
                     113.18
3456     6-17-24     T.S.O. X
3457     6-17-24     T.S.O. X
3459     7-1-24      T.S.O. X
3460     7-1-24      T.S.O. X
3461     7-1-24      T.S.O. X
3462     7-15-24     T.S.O. X
3463     8-5-24      T.S.O. X
3464     8-5-24      T.S.O. X
3466     9-3-24      T.S.O. X
3467     9-3-24      T.S.O. X
3468     9-3-24      T.S.O. X
3469     10-7-24     T.S.O. X
3471     10-7-24     T.S.O. X
3472     10-7-24     T.S.O. X
3473     10-7-24     113.20
3474     11-4-24     74.01,
                     74.03
3476     11-4-24     113.20
                     32.075,
                     158.01,
                     158.02,
3477     11-18-24    158.15,
                     158.31,
                     158.44,
                     158.45,
                     158.90
3478     11-18-24    T.S.O. X
3480     12-2-24     T.S.O. X
3481     12-2-24     T.S.O. X
3482     12-16-24    T.S.O. II
3483     12-16-24    T.S.O. II
3484     12-16-24    T.S.O. X
3485     12-16-24    113.20
                    
 
