Fulton, Illinois
Code of Ordinances
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1740, passed 6-10-24
State legislation current through ALS 2024 Pamphlet No. 5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1221
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FULTON, WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2003 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fulton, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council of the City of Fulton to accept
these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State
of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FULTON,
WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
Section 1.   That the 2003 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Fulton
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Fulton,
Whiteside County, Illinois on this 19th day of August, 2003, and deposited and
filed in the office of the City Clerk in said City on that date pursuant to
roll call vote as follows:
AYES:      5
NAYS:   0
ABSENT:   2
                Jeanne M. Kettler /s/
               City Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois, this 19th day of August,
2003.
                Howard Van Zuiden /s/
               Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois
ATTEST:
Jeanne M. Kettler /s/
Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
   Published in pamphlet form this 19th day of August, 2003.
ORDINANCE NO. 1254
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FULTON, WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fulton, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council of the City of Fulton to accept
these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State
of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FULTON,
WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
Section 1.   That the 2004 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Fulton
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Fulton,
Whiteside County, Illinois on this 7th day of September, 2004, and deposited
and filed in the office of the City Clerk in said City on that date pursuant to
roll call vote as follows:
AYES:   7
NAYS:   0
ABSENT:   1
                                  Jeanne M. Kettler /s/
                                 Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois, this 7th day of
September, 2004.
                                  Howard Van Zuiden /s/
                                 Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois
ATTEST:
Jeanne M. Kettler /s/
Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
Published in pamphlet form this 7th day of September, 2004.
ORDINANCE NO. 1358
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FULTON, WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2007 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fulton, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council of the City of Fulton to accept
these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State
of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FULTON,
WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
Section 1.   That the 2007 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Fulton
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Fulton,
Whiteside County, Illinois on this 15th day of October, 2007, and deposited and
filed in the office of the City Clerk in said City on that date pursuant to
roll call vote as follows:
AYES:   Ron Roels, Bill Loerop, Wes Letcher, Warren Juist, Merle Sterenberg,
Eugene Field, Charles Dykstra
NAYS:   None
ABSENT:   Charlie Letcher
Linda Hollis /s/
Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois, this 15th day of
October, 2007.
Howard Van Zuiden /s/
Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois
ATTEST:
Linda Hollis /s/
Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
Published in pamphlet form this 16th day of October, 2007
ORDINANCE NO. 1390
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FULTON, WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2009 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fulton, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council of the City of Fulton to accept
these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State
of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FULTON,
WHITESIDE COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
Section 1.   That the 2009 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fulton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Fulton
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Fulton,
Whiteside County, Illinois on this 1st day of June, 2009, and deposited and
filed in the office of the City Clerk in said City on that date pursuant to
roll call vote as follows:
AYES:      Ron Roels, Bill Loerop, Wes Letcher, Charlie Letcher, Merle
Sterenberg, Gene Field, Charles Dykstra
NAYS:      Warren Juist
ABSENT:   None
                                    Linda Hollis /s/
                                    Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois, this 1st day of June,
2009.
                                                                                    
                                    Mayor of the City of Fulton, Illinois
ATTEST:
Linda Hollis /s/
Clerk of the City of Fulton, Illinois
Published in pamphlet form this 1st day of June, 2009
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
      
12.   STATE OF EMERGENCY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Computation of time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Waiver of fee
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the city of Fulton, Illinois,
shall be designated as the Code of Fulton, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted, amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Fulton, Illinois.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Whiteside County, Illinois.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to
be done or a payment under this code is to be made shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day. When the last day is a
Saturday, Sunday or a city holiday, it shall also be excluded. City holidays
shall be defined as the days other than a Saturday or Sunday when the city
offices are officially closed for business.
(Ord. 1161, passed 6-19-01)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: ILCS Ch. 24, § 3-4-2.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see ILCS Ch. 24, § 3-11-6
§ 10.19 WAIVER OF FEES.
   The City Council shall have the discretion to waive any fee required by a
city ordinance, or any provision of the city code, as provided herein, except
when the ordinance or provision of the city code specifically states that the
fee cannot be waived at the discretion of the City Council. Such fee may only
be waived if a motion is duly passed by an affirmative vote of not less than
three-fourths of the City Council. Such motion shall also provide the specific
reasons why the City Council is voting to waive the fee in each particular
situation and why such waiver of fee will be in the best interests of the city.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-7-91)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not less than $100, and not more than $750. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
(Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   City boundaries
   
11.03   Wards
   
11.04   Daylight savings time adopted; compliance required
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the city shall be a circular disc, with the words "The
Corporate Seal of the City of Fulton" on the periphery thereof, and the words
"Whiteside County, Illinois" enclosed therein.
(‘82 Code, § 1.08.010)
§ 11.02 CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The city of Fulton shall embrace all of the territory within the following
described limits, all located in the county of Whiteside and state of Illinois:
beginning at a point on the north line of Section Thirty Three, Township Twenty
Two North, Range 3 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, in Whiteside County,
Illinois where the north line of the section is intersected by the east line of
the right-of-way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company;
running thence west along and upon said north line of said Section to the
Mississippi River; running thence west on the north line of said Section
extended to the center of the channel of the Mississippi River; running thence
northerly up the center of the channel of the Mississippi River to a point due
west of the center of the mouth of the Cattail Slough, so called; running
thence due east to the center of the mouth of the Cattail Slough, so called;
running thence easterly and southerly along the center of the Cattail Slough,
so called, to the point where the center of the Cattail Slough, so called,
intersects the east line of Section Twenty-One Township and Range aforesaid;
running thence due east to the west line of the Public Highway running
southerly through the northeast quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section
Twenty-One; running thence southerly and westerly along and upon the westerly
and northerly line of the Highway to a point twelve rods west of the center
line of the Cattail Slough, so called, and twelve rods west of the center of
the culvert now across the Highway; running thence due south across the Highway
to the south line of the Highway; running thence due east to the east line of
the right-of-way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company;
running thence southerly and westerly along and upon the said east line of the
said right-of-way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company to the
point where the east line of the right-of-way intersects the east line of
Section Twenty Eight, in the Township and Range aforesaid; running thence south
along and upon said east line of Section Twenty-Eight to the point where said
east line of Section Twenty-Eight intersects the south line of the abandoned
right-of-way of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, located in the
west one half of the southwest quarter of Section Twenty-Seven, in the Township
and Range aforesaid; running thence west along and upon the south line of the
abandoned right-of-way of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company to the
east line of the right-of-way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company; running thence southerly and westerly along and upon the right-of-way
of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company to the point of
beginning; and, also, all that part of the Southwest quarter of Section Twenty-
Seven in the Township and Range aforesaid lying south of the abandoned right-
of-way of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company and north of the center
line of the Public Highway running from the city of Fulton to the city of
Morrison, in Whiteside County, Illinois, and known as Illinois State Bond Issue
Route No. 6, and U. S. Route No. 30, and north of the center line of the cement
highway running easterly from the east line of the Southeast quarter of Section
Twenty-Eight in the Township and Range aforesaid to said U. S. Route No. 30;
and excepting and excluding a tract of land one hundred feet in width, the
center line of which is as follows; commencing on the east line of 14th Street
in the city of Fulton, in the county and state aforesaid, and on the center
line of 10th Avenue in the city, and running thence east on the center line of
10th Avenue, extended, to the easterly corporation limit of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 1.12.010)
§ 11.03 WARDS.
   The territory embraced within the corporate limits of the city is divided
into four wards, as follows:
   (A)   Fourth ward is all that portion of the territory embraced within the
corporate limits which lies north of the line drawn as follows: beginning at
the eastern boundary of the city at a point due east of the center line of 4th
Avenue, in the city and running thence west with the center line of the avenue
to the western boundary of the city.
   (B)   First ward is all that portion of the territory embraced within the
corporate limits which lies south of the last above-described line and north of
a line drawn as follows: beginning at the eastern boundary of the city at a
point due east of the center line of 10th Avenue, in the city and running
thence west with the center line of the avenue to the western boundary of the
city.
   (C)   Second ward is all that portion of the territory embraced within the
corporate limits of the city which lies south of the last above-described line
and north of a line drawn as follows: beginning at the eastern boundary of the
city at a point due east of the centerline of 14th Avenue in the city and
running thence west with the centerline of 14th Avenue to the western boundary
of the city.
   (D)   Third ward is all that portion of the territory embraced within the
corporate limits which lies south of the line last above described.
(‘82 Code, § 1.16.010) (Ord. 1146, passed 11-7-00)
§ 11.04 DAYLIGHT SAVINGS TIME ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Central Standard Time from and after the passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter shall be the official time within the city for the
transaction of all city business except that from 2:00 a.m., on Sunday, on the
last Saturday in April, continuously to 2:00 a.m., on Sunday, on the last
Saturday in October, the official time of the city shall be advanced one hour
and all legal and official proceedings of the city shall be regulated thereby
in accordance with the advanced time.
(‘82 Code, § 1.20.010)
   (B)   All clocks and time pieces on city premises shall be set and run
according to the official time as provided in division (A) of this section. All
persons residing within the city are requested to set any and all clocks or
other time pieces under their control within the city in accordance with the
official time as provided in this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 1.20.020)
(Ord. 510, passed - -59).
CHAPTER 12: STATE OF EMERGENCY
Section
   
12.01   Definitions
   
12.02   Declaration
   
12.03   Curfew authorized
   
12.04   Orders authorized
   
12.05   Duration
   
12.06   Notice
   
12.07   Effect on other ordinances
 
   
12.99   Penalty
§ 12.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency and essential persons identified in the order establishing
the curfew.
   EMERGENCY. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or any natural disaster, epidemic, or manmade calamity, including outbreak of
disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, or
eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits of the city,
resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the destruction
of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.02 DECLARATION.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
12.01 exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a local state
of emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under oath,
setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the nature
of the emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the municipal clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.03 CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   After proclamation of a local state of emergency by the Mayor, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to
the city as a whole, as he or she deems reasonable and advisable, and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.04 ORDERS AUTHORIZED.
   After the proclamation of a local state of emergency, the Mayor may also, in
the interest of public safety and welfare, and to address this issue caused
threatened by the emergency, make take any or all of the following actions by
executive order during the state of emergency:
   (A)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
   (B)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
   (C)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the city during the existence of the
local state of emergency;
   (D)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (F)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (G)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.05 DURATION.
   The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a period of up to
30 days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation
of the Mayor, or, his or her interim emergency successor, indicating that the
civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or his or her interim emergency
successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence of an emergency at
the end of each 30-day period during the time said emergency exists.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.06 NOTICE.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the City Clerk shall notify
the news media situated within the city, and shall cause at least four copies
of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and any curfew to
be posted at the following places within the city: the City Hall, the police
station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.07 EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code, giving powers to the Police and Fire Departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
§ 12.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this section or executive orders
issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the city and shall
be punished as provided by §
10.99.
(Ord. 1654, passed 6-22-20)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Term of office
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Appointive powers
   
30.04   Delegation and assignment of powers and duties
   
30.05   Bond
   
30.06   Mayor pro tem
City Council
   
30.20   Term of office
   
30.21   Location and schedule of meetings
   
30.22   Special meetings
   
30.23   Quorum
   
30.24   Standing committees
   
30.25   Special committees
   
30.26   Membership and organization of committees
   
30.27   Minutes and records
   
30.28   Recission of vote or action; number of members required
   
30.29   Addressing meetings; consent of Council required
   
30.30   Governing rules
   
30.31   Disturbing meetings
   
30.32   Consent agenda
MAYOR
§ 30.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a term of four years and shall serve until
his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.04.010)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be chief executive officer of the city and shall perform
such duties as may be required of him or her by statute or ordinance. He or she
shall have supervision over all of the executive officers and employees of the
city and shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records
pertaining to the city affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the city,
at any reasonable time.
(‘82 Code, § 2.04.020)
§ 30.03 APPOINTIVE POWERS.
   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council, all officers of the city whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in any appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
(‘82 Code, § 2.04.040)
§ 30.04 DELEGATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor after
consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power to
delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(‘82 Code, § 2.04.050)
§ 30.05 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Mayor shall give bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be required by the City Council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
He or she shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute and shall
receive such compensation as may be set from time to time by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.04.030)
§ 30.06 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, the City Council
shall elect one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem, who during the absence
or disability of the Mayor shall possess the powers of Mayor, as is provided by
statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.04.060)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.20 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four year
term as is provided by statute. The Council shall be the legislative division
of the city government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as
may be authorized by statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.010)
§ 30.21 LOCATION AND SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second Monday
and fourth Monday of each month at the hour of 5:30 p.m. in the Council Room in
the City Hall in Fulton, beginning with the month of June, 2022. The corporate
authorities shall give public notice of the schedule of regular meetings at the
beginning of each calendar or fiscal year and shall state the regular dates,
times and places of such meetings pursuant to ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.020) (Am. Ord. 1076, passed 10-7-97; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 3-
6-01; Am. Ord. 1233, passed 2-18-04; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 7-6-04; Am. Ord.
1570, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 1676, passed 4-26-21; Am. Ord. 1698, passed 4-
11-22)
§ 30.22 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or any three
Alder persons; provided, a written notice of such meeting shall be given to
each member of the Council at least 24 hours before the time of such meeting.
Public notice of any special meeting, of any rescheduled regular meeting or of
any recommended meeting shall also be given at least 24 hours before such
meeting, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02. If a special meeting should
be called at a citizen's request, the citizen shall pay $25 for each attending
elected official.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.030)
§ 30.23 QUORUM.
   A majority of the elected members of the Council shall constitute a quorum
thereof, but no ordinance shall be passed except by a favorable vote of a
majority of the elected members as is provided by statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.040)
§ 30.24 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   The following shall be the standing committees of the City Council:
   (A)   Budget Committee. Concerns matters of finance.
   (B)   Public Property. Concerns matters relative to city buildings, parks,
streets and alleys.
   (C)   Economic Development. Concerns matters relative to economic
development, tourism, city planning, land use and zoning.
   (D)   Public Safety. Concerns matters of police and law enforcement
generally.
   (E)   Parks and Recreation. Concerns matters on parks and recreational
activities.
   (F)   Marina. Concerns matters relative to the City Marina facilities
   (G)   Personnel. Concerns matters relative to the city employees and
personnel issues.
   (H)   Tourism. Concerns matters related to tourism.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.050) (Am. Ord. 1566, passed 5-15-17; Am. Ord. 1572, passed 7-
17-17; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-13-22; Am. Ord. 1721, passed 6-12-23)
§ 30.25 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint such special committees as he or she may deem
necessary or as may be directed by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.060)
§ 30.26 MEMBERSHIP AND ORGANIZATION OF COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint the membership of all standing and special
committees and shall designate the Chairman thereof. Every committee shall
consist of three members including the Chairman, unless the Council shall
provide otherwise.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.070)
§ 30.27 MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Council
proceedings.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.080)
§ 30.28 RECISSION OF VOTE OR ACTION; NUMBER OF MEMBERS REQUIRED.
   No vote or action of the Council shall be rescinded at any special meeting
unless there shall be present at such special meeting as many members of the
Council as were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as
provided by statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.090)
§ 30.29 ADDRESSING MEETINGS; CONSENT OF COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   The city recognizes the Illinois Open Meetings Act provides that any person
shall be permitted an opportunity to address public officials under rules
established by the city. The City Council by majority votes of its members then
holding office shall establish rules for public participation to balance the
rights of individuals to address the Council with the Council's need to
maintain meeting decorum and efficiencies. The rules may be amended from time
to time by majority vote of the members of the City Council then holding
office.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.100) (Ord. 1521, passed 1-19-15)
§ 30.30 GOVERNING RULES.
   Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the City Council
except when in conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.110)
§ 30.31 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It is unlawful to disturb any regular or special meeting of the City Council
or any committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly manner at any such
meeting.
(‘82 Code, § 2.08.120)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 30.32 CONSENT AGENDA.
   A consent agenda shall be prepared under the direction of the City
Administrator and shall include the approval of minutes of council meetings,
bills to be approved, and such matters the Administrator shall determine are
routine. All items listed on the consent agenda will be enacted by one motion
and one vote, which shall be a roll call vote. The City Clerk shall enter a
single note in the journal under the designation "Consent Agenda". An omnibus
vote shall be with like effect as if the vote of each item was voted upon
separately. Upon the request of the Mayor or an Alderman an item will be
removed from the consent agenda and considered individually after all other
items of business on the consent agenda.
(Ord. 1535, passed 1-18-16)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Applicability of provisions
   
31.002   Mayor; appointive powers
   
31.003   Appointive officer; term, assignment of additional duties
   
31.004   Records open to inspection
   
31.005   Transmittal of moneys received to Clerk
   
31.006   Oath and bond
   
31.007   Compensation
   
31.008   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
31.009   Police powers of city officers
   
31.010   Delivery of books and records to Clerk or Treasurer
   
31.011   Unlawful impersonation of city officer
   
31.012   Policy manual
   
31.013   City Retirement Fund
   
31.014   Old Age and Survivor’s Insurance
   
31.015   Surety bonds
City Clerk
   
31.025   Term of office
   
31.026   Bond
   
31.027   Sealing and attestment of contracts
   
31.028   Delivery of funds to City Treasurer
   
31.029   Financial account requirement
   
31.030   Registry and recordkeeping requirement
   
31.031   Custodian of corporate seal
   
31.032   Custodian of city documents
   
31.033   Maintenance of index to records and documents
   
31.034   Additional duties
   
31.035   Vital statistics registrar
City Treasurer
   
31.050   Election
   
31.051   Bond
   
31.052   Powers and duties
   
31.053   Deposit of city funds
   
31.054   Financial recordkeeping
   
31.055   Maintenance of books and accounts
   
31.056   Monthly report to City Council
   
31.057   Registry of warrants, bond, orders and vouchers
City Attorney
   
31.070   Office created
   
31.071   Legal representative of city
   
31.072   Legal advisor to city
   
31.073   Enforcement authority
   
31.074   Supervision of drafting of ordinances and documents
City Administrator
   
31.090   Office created
   
31.091   Appointment
   
31.092   Duties
City Collector
   
31.110   Office created
   
31.111   General duties
   
31.112   Licenses
   
31.113   Reports
   
31.114   Compensation
   
31.115   Bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers or
employees of the city, regardless of the time of creating the office or the
time of the appointment of the officer.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.010)
§ 31.002 MAYOR; APPOINTIVE POWERS.
   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council, shall make all
appointments to fill all appointive offices.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.020) (Am. Ord. 1574, passed 9-5-17)
§ 31.003 APPOINTIVE OFFICER; TERM, ASSIGNMENT OF ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   (A)   Term. Every appointive officer of the city shall hold office for a
term of one year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified
unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance. Employees selected shall serve so
long as their services are desired, provided, however, that in case of a
vacancy in any appointive office, the Mayor shall have power to appoint any
qualified person to serve as such officer until such person or officer may be
approved by the Council, but not to exceed 30 days.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.030)
   (B)   Assignment of additional duties. The Mayor shall have power to assign
to any appointive officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some
other specific officer and shall determine disputes or questions relating to
the respective powers or duties of officers.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.040)
§ 31.004 RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   All records kept by any officer of the city shall be open to inspection by
the Mayor or any member of the Council, at reasonable times, whether such
records are required to be kept by ordinance or not.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.050)
§ 31.005 TRANSMITTAL OF MONEYS RECEIVED TO CLERK.
   Every officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days, turn
over all moneys received by him or her in his or her official capacity to the
Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.060)
§ 31.006 OATH AND BOND.
   Every officer shall, before entering upon his or her duties as such officer,
take the oath prescribed by statute, and shall, if required by the Council,
give bond in such amount as may be determined by the Council and with such
sureties as it may approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of his or her office.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.070)
§ 31.007 COMPENSATION.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1765,
adopted 6-23-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   The following city officers shall be paid compensation as set forth
effective September 26, 2022:
   (A)   City Mayor: $300 per first meeting attended plus $75 per additional
meeting attended.
   (B)   City Alderperson: $75 per meeting attended.
   (C)   City Clerk: $262.50 per meeting attended, $75 per additional meeting
attended, plus up to eight hours per week at $20 per hour.
(Am. Ord. 1708, passed 9-26-22)
§ 31.008 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15 and Article 10, ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40 of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the
"Act" in this chapter) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to
the officers and employees of the city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section except as specifically set forth herein, however,
the provisions of this section shall prevail in accordance with the provisions
of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the city.
(Ord. 1103, passed 6-2-99; Am. Ord. 1112, passed 10-6-99; Am. Ord. 1239, passed
5-17-04)
§ 31.009 POLICE POWERS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, members of the City Council, members of the Fire Department, as
well as every member of the Police Department are declared to be conservators
of the peace with such powers to make arrests as are given to conservators of
the peace by statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.090)
§ 31.010 DELIVERY OF BOOKS AND RECORDS TO CLERK OR TREASURER.
   Every officer of the city, upon termination of his or her office, for any
cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor in office all books and
records which may be the property of the city; and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property shall
be delivered either to the City Clerk or to the City Treasurer.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.100)
§ 31.011 UNLAWFUL IMPERSONATION OF CITY OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer of the city without
lawful authority, and it shall also be unlawful for any person to interfere
with or hinder any officer or employee of the city while the officer or
employee is engaged in the duties of his or her office.
(‘82 Code, § 2.44.110)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 31.012 POLICY MANUAL.
   The City Council shall establish and maintain a personnel policy manual to
define the policies then in effect for all employees of the city. The manual
shall not constitute a contractual agreement between the city and the
employees. The manual shall serve as a guideline in dealing in a fair and
equitable manner with the employees. The manual may be adopted by a majority
vote of the City Council and may be amended by motion and majority vote of the
City Council. The City Council shall review each of the provisions of the
manual at least annually and shall make adjustments or amendments when deemed
necessary.
(Ord. 899, passed 4-4-89)
§ 31.013 CITY RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The city elects to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund, July 6, 1976.
(‘82 Code, § 2.48.010)
   (B)   The Clerk is directed to promptly file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified in this chapter with the Board of Trustees of the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund.
(‘82 Code, § 2.48.020)
(Ord. 703, passed - -76).
§ 31.014 OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE.
   (A)   Extension of benefits to eligible employees. It is declared to be the
policy and purpose of the city to extend to the eligible employees thereof the
benefits of the Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance System as authorized by
the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such
policy, and for that purpose, the Mayor shall take such action as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(‘82 Code, § 2.52.010)
   (B)   Execution of agreement with State Retirement System. The Mayor is
authorized and directed to execute an agreement with the State Employees'
Retirement System (Social Security Unit) to secure coverage of eligible
employees as provided in division (A) of this section.
(‘82 Code, § 2.52.020)
   (C)   Withholding authorization. Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees for the purpose provided in division (A) of this section are
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
state agency in such amounts and at such times as are designated by state laws
and regulations.
(‘82 Code, § 2.52.030)
   (D)   Employer contributions and administrative expenses. Employer
contributions and administrative expense shall be paid to the state agency in
accordance with applicable state laws and regulations from amounts appropriated
for such purposes.
(‘82 Code, § 2.52.040)
   (E)   Maintenance of records. The Mayor shall maintain such records and
submit such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations.
(‘82 Code, § 2.52.050)
(Ord. 469, passed - -53).
§ 31.015 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the city is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of any license or permit or for the exercise of any privilege, the
surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in this state as a surety company, or an individual approved by the
Council as a surety.
   (B)   Whenever in the opinion of the Council additional surety or sureties
may be needed on any bond to indemnify the city against any loss or liability,
the Council may order new or additional sureties to be secured for such bond.
   (C)   If such new sureties or additional surety are not procured within ten
days from the time such order is transmitted to the principal on the bond, the
Council shall declare such bond to be void, and thereupon such principal, or
assignee, shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege or position as a
condition of which the bond was required.
(‘82 Code, § 2.56.010)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.025 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The City Clerk shall be elected for a term of four years and shall serve
until his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.010)
§ 31.026 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties he or she shall give bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be required by the Council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office. He or she
shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute and shall receive such
compensation as may be set from time to time by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.020)
§ 31.027 SEALING AND ATTESTMENT OF CONTRACTS.
   The City Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the city and all
licenses, permits and such other documents as may require this formality.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.030)
§ 31.028 DELIVERY OF FUNDS TO CITY TREASURER.
   The City Clerk shall turn over all money receive by him or her on behalf of
the city to the City Treasurer promptly on receipt of the same, and with such
money he or she shall give a statement as to the source thereof.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.040)
§ 31.029 FINANCIAL ACCOUNT REQUIREMENT.
   The City Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by him or her
on behalf of the city, the source thereof and the disposition thereof, and such
other accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.050)
§ 31.030 REGISTRY AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.
   In addition to the record of ordinance and other records which the Clerk is
required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued and the payments thereon, a record showing all of the
officers and regular employees of the city and such other records as may be
required by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.060)
§ 31.031 CUSTODIAN OF CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of the corporate seal and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.070)
§ 31.032 CUSTODIAN OF CITY DOCUMENTS.
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to the city
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer of the city by the
Mayor or Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.080)
§ 31.033 MAINTENANCE OF INDEX TO RECORDS AND DOCUMENTS.
   The Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him or her so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be
had.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.090)
§ 31.034 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties provided in this chapter, the Clerk shall act as
City Collector unless and until a separate City Collector is appointed as
provided by law, and he or she shall perform such other duties and functions as
may be required by statute or ordinance.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.100)
§ 31.035 VITAL STATISTICS REGISTRAR.
   (A)   The provision of the statutes shall be fully complied with by the City
Clerk in connection with vital statistics reports, and for that purpose the
City Clerk is made the registrar of vital statistics for the city.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall make sufficient copies of all such records so
that one complete set thereof may be retained and kept by the city.
(‘82 Code, § 2.12.110)
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.050 ELECTION.
   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.010) (Am. Ord. 912, passed 3-6-90)
§ 31.051 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Treasurer shall give bond in
such amount and with sureties as may be required by the Council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office, and to
indemnify the city for any loss due to any neglect of his or her duty or
wrongful act on the part of the Treasurer. Such bond shall be not less than
three times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census
figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. This bond shall be filed with the City
Clerk. He or she shall take oath of office as provided by statute and shall
receive such compensation as may be from time to time set by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.020)
§ 31.052 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for him or
her by statute or ordinance. He or she shall receive all money paid in to the
city, either directly from the person paying it or from the hands of such other
officer as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out only on vouchers or
orders properly signed by the Mayor and the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.030)
§ 31.053 DEPOSIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall deposit the city funds in such depositories as may be
designated from time to time by the City Council as is provided by law, and he
or she shall keep the city money separate and distinct from his or her own and
shall not intermingle his or her own money with it or make private or personal
use of the city funds.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.040)
§ 31.054 FINANCIAL RECORDKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep records showing all money received by him or her,
the source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid
out; and he or she shall keep a record showing at all times the financial
status of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.050)
§ 31.055 MAINTENANCE OF BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be required by the
City Council and shall keep them in the manner required by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.060)
§ 31.056 MONTHLY REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The Treasurer shall, at the ending of each and every month and on such other
dates and times as requested by the Mayor, render a complete account under oath
to the Mayor and City Council, or such officer of the city as may be designated
by the Mayor or majority vote of the Council, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of the account, the balance of money in the accounts of the city
and the amounts received and spent during the month or since the date of the
last report. The Treasurer shall also render an accounting of the present
balance of expended and unexpended amounts on each line item contained in the
annual budget of the city. This accounting of the present balance of line item
accounts shall be rendered monthly, on or before the 15th of the following
month. Each report shall be timely delivered to the City Clerk and shall be
filed with the Treasurer accounts in the city. The Treasurer shall annually,
within the time required by law or ordinance, complete and file with the City
Clerk a complete and detailed report of all receipts and expenditures of the
city, as shown by the records of the city, and in all of the transactions of
the Treasurer during the preceding fiscal year; and shall further reflect in
such report the state of the treasury at the close of the preceding fiscal year
which report shall be published as required by law by the City Clerk. Each
report filed by the City Treasurer shall be verified by the Treasurer under
oath.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.070) (Am. Ord. 897, passed 4-4-89)
§ 31.057 REGISTRY OF WARRANTS, BOND, ORDERS AND VOUCHERS.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed
with him or her or paid by him or her and all vouchers as is required by
statute.
(‘82 Code, § 2.16.080)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.070 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is created the office of City Attorney, an executive office of the
city. The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.20.010)
§ 31.071 LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE OF CITY.
   The City Attorney shall prosecute and defend all suits or actions at law or
equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or
which may be brought against, or by any officer of the city on behalf of the
city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 2.20.020)
§ 31.072 LEGAL ADVISOR TO CITY.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever requested to do so
by any city official. Upon request by the Mayor or City Council, he or she
shall reduce such opinion to writing.
(‘82 Code, § 2.20.040)
§ 31.073 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It is the duty of the City Attorney to see to the full enforcement of all
judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city and of all
similar interlocutory orders. It is his or her further duty to see to the
completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
(‘82 Code, § 2.20.030)
§ 31.074 SUPERVISION OF DRAFTING OF ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to supervise or draft the
phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents or instruments to which
the city may be party and, upon request by the City Council, to draft
ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 2.20.050)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.090 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the City Administrator of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 2.22.010)
§ 31.091 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor with advise and a
consent of the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.22.020)
§ 31.092 DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be in charge of overseeing the day to day
operations of the city employees and functions and such other specific duties
as the Mayor or the Council may from time to time assign.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have the responsibility and duty to hire
al employees of the city without Mayor or City Council approval unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
(‘82 Code, § 2.22.030) (Am. Ord. 1574, passed 9-5-17)
CITY COLLECTOR
§ 31.110 OFFICE CREATED.
   The corporate authorities of the city hereby establish the office of City
Collector, an officer of the city. The City Collector shall hold office for one
year or until her or his successor is appointed and qualified. The City
Collector shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council. The City Collector shall be under the direction and supervision
of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-7-05)
§ 31.111 GENERAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Collector to supervise the collection and
receipt of all accounts due the city and to supervise the regular books and
records of the affairs of collection and to assist the City Treasurer as to
record keeping and such support related and incidental thereto. The City
Collector shall keep such records and perform such further duties as may be
required by state law or an ordinance of the city. The City Collector shall
also keep such books and accounts in the manner prescribed by the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-7-05)
§ 31.112 LICENSES.
   The City Collector shall issue all licenses and permits and provide forms
therefore, and shall collect and receive all fees paid or required for licenses
and permits in the absence of any provision to the contrary by any city
ordinance or state statute.
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-7-05)
§ 31.113 REPORTS.
   The City Collector shall make such reports of all money collected by the
City Collector and all books and accounts kept by the City Collector in such
manner and frequency as requested by the City Administrator. The City Collector
shall also provide such reports as may be required by state statute or a city
ordinance.
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-7-05)
§ 31.114 COMPENSATION.
   The City Collector shall receive such compensation as the City Council may
provide from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-7-05)
§ 31.115 BOND.
   The City Collector, before commencing his or her duties for the office,
shall give such bond in such amount with such sureties as may be required by
the City Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
his or her office. He or she shall take the oath of office as prescribed by
state law.
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-7-05)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
Section
Board of Health
   
32.01   Office of health officer created
   
32.02   Powers and duties of health officer
   
32.03   Violation
Police Department
   
32.15   Creation of Department
   
32.16   Chief of Police
   
32.17   Custodian of stolen property
   
32.18   Powers and duties
   
32.19   Standards of conduct
   
32.20   Special police officers
   
32.21   Part-time police officers
   
32.22   Community Service Officer
Street Department
   
32.60   Creation of Department
   
32.61   Superintendent of Streets
   
32.62   Unlawful use or damage of equipment
Water Department
   
32.75   Creation of Department
   
32.76   Superintendent of Waterworks
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.01 OFFICE OF HEALTH OFFICER CREATED.
   There is created the office of health officer who shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, and who shall have the
powers of a police officer and a conservator of the peace.
(‘82 Code, § 2.24.010)
§ 32.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   The health officer shall examine all cases of contagious diseases arising in
the city and shall see to the enforcement of quarantine rules and determine the
time for raising the quarantine. He or she shall give the Mayor and Council
information and advice concerning the public health and shall perform such
other duties as may be assigned him or her by the Mayor and Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.24.030) (Am. Ord. 977, passed 7-6-93)
§ 32.03 VIOLATION.
   Any person violating or refusing any lawful order of the health officer or
destroying, mutilating or concealing any notice posted by or under the
authority of the health officer shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
§
10.99, and an offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(‘82 Code, § 2.24.080) (Am. Ord. 977, passed 7-6-93)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is created a Police Department, an executive department of the city.
The Police Department shall consist of the Police Chief who shall be
Superintendent of Police and Chief of the Police Department and of such number
of other police officers and patrol officers as may be provided from time to
time by the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.28.010)
§ 32.16 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the office of Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police is a hired position pursuant to the policy manual of the City
of Fulton and shall be an ‘at will’ employee. (‘82 Code, § 2.28.020)
   (B)   Powers and duties. 
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall be the keeper of the City Jail and shall
have care and custody of all persons incarcerated therein. He or she shall keep
such records and make such reports concerning the activities of his or her
Department as may be required by the Council or by statute.
      (2)   The Chief shall be responsible for the performance by the Police
Department of all of its functions and all persons who are members of the
Department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief.
(‘82 Code, § 2.28.030) (Am. Ord. 1720, passed 6-12-23)
§ 32.17 CUSTODIAN OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property in the city.
(‘82 Code, § 2.28.060)
§ 32.18 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It is the duty of every member of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable thereto
and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest all
violators thereof.
(‘82 Code, § 2.28.040)
§ 32.19 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   It is the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct himself
or herself in a proper and law abiding manner and at all times to avoid the use
of unnecessary force. Any member shall appear whenever necessary as a witness
in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance, statute or federal law, and
no member shall retain any fee for service as a witness in any such suit or
action to which the city is a party; any fees paid for such services shall be
turned over to the City Treasurer.
(‘82 Code, § 2.28.050)
§ 32.20 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   Any person of good character may be appointed special police officer by the
Mayor whenever in his or her opinion it may be necessary for the maintenance of
law and order within the city, provided, that except upon authorization by the
City Council, no such special police officer shall be entitled to compensation
nor shall such special police officer be considered an employee of the city.
Such special police officer shall be subject to all the rules of the Police
Department and may be deprived of his or her appointment at any time by the
Mayor or Chief of Police.
(‘82 Code, § 2.28.070)
§ 32.21 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the City of Fulton Police Department, but the number of hours
a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, sound health, physically and mentally
able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      (4)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      (5)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      (6)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities and may be removed by the city authorities
at any time. Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules
and General Orders issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 1452, passed 5-21-12)
§ 32.22 COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ a Community Service Officer ("CSO").
   (B)   Duties. The Community Service Officer shall have the power to perform
routine and non-routine enforcement of the provisions of this code, including
but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Enforcement of code provisions related to existing buildings/
structures, properties, and vehicles;
      (2)   Assuring compliance with the provisions of this code related to
housing, zoning, health, and sanitation, and related ordinances;
      (3)   Effective January 1, 2025, performing the duties of the code
official under the International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 edition
(including Appendix A thereto and the 2024 Errata Sheet), as published by the
International Code Council, adopted by reference by ordinance and codified at §
150.24 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Fulton, or any other building
or maintenance code subsequently adopted by the city;
      (4)   Ensuring that new development and on-going land occupancy conforms
to applicable city and Whiteside County regulations regarding land use and
zoning, drainage and stormwater management, special flood hazard areas and
nuisance abasement;
      (5)   Hold the office and perform the duties of Zoning Enforcing Officer
under §
155.206, including but not limited to: the issuance of zoning use permits and
building permit requests, designing and maintaining a database of permit
records, reports, and handouts; and respond to zoning inquires by telephone and
in writing;
      (6)   Respond to parking problems;
      (7)   Assist police officers with traffic control during parades,
accidents, or other emergency scenes;
      (8)   Impound and transport lost pets to the local holding facility and
facilitate with the Whiteside County Animal Control for pickup and care of the
animal;
      (9)   Assist police officers with service calls that do not require a
sworn officer response, as needed;
      (10)   Report unsafe conditions and accidents to supervisors;
      (11)   Prepare correspondence and inspection reports, write narratives,
receive telephone calls, and respond to inquiries of a technical and non-
technical nature regarding codes, ordinances, and procedures; and
      (12)   Perform such other duties as requested or assigned by the Chief of
Police.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as the Community Service Officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Have completed two years of college with preferred courses in
building trades, code enforcement, or related field; or have two or more years
of related work experience; or have the equivalent of two years college and
related work experience;
      (2)   Possess a valid State of Illinois or Iowa driver's license;
      (3)   Obtain a certification as an International Code Council Property
Maintenance and Housing Inspector within 12 months of hire;
      (4)   Obtain a L.E.A.D.S. certification within the first 30 days of hire;
      (5)   Have AED/CPR/First Aid Training; and
      (6)   Have any other training deemed necessary by the Chief of Police or
Supervising Sergeant.
   (D)   Salary. The Community Service Officer shall perform his/her duties for
a salary annually fixed by the City Council.
   (E)   Supervision and discipline. The Community Service Officer shall be
under the disciplinary jurisdiction and supervision of the Chief of Police or
such other supervising officer as the Chief of Police shall determine from time
to time. The CSO shall serve at the discretion of the city authorities and may
be removed by the city authorities at any time. The CSO shall comply with all
applicable rules and General Orders issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 1740, passed 6-10-24)
STREET DEPARTMENT
§ 32.60 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is created the Department of Streets which shall consist of the
Superintendent of Streets who shall also be known as the Public Works Director
and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council and
such other employees as may be hired by the City Administrator.
(‘82 Code, § 2.36.020) (Am. Ord. 1574, passed 9-5-17)
§ 32.61 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the office of Superintendent of
Streets, an executive office of the city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the advice and consent of the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.36.010)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Superintendent of Streets shall have charge of
the improvement, repair, care, maintenance and clearing of all public streets,
avenues, alleys, highways, sidewalks and other public ways in the city, and he
or she shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the
Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.36.030)
   (C)   Supervisory authority over employees and equipment. The Superintendent
of Streets shall have charge and supervision of all persons employed by the
city to labor on the streets, avenues and other public ways. He or she shall be
responsible for all trucks, tractors, graders and other equipment or apparatus
owned, purchased or leased by the city for use on the streets or alleys and
shall see that they are kept in good repair and are not misused or used without
proper permission.
(‘82 Code, § 2.36.040)
§ 32.62 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE OF EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to take, use, remove or otherwise disturb, or
to break, injure, deface or in any manner interfere with the working or use of
any truck, tractor, grader, mower or other equipment or apparatus belonging to
the city for use of the Department of Streets without permission of the Mayor
or City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 2.36.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 32.75 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is created the Water Department of the city, which shall consist of
the Superintendent of Waterworks who shall also be known as the Public Works
Director and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council and such assistants or other personnel as may be hired by the City
Administrator.
(‘82 Code, § 2.40.020) (Am. Ord. 1574, passed 9-5-17)
§ 32.76 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the office of Superintendent of
Waterworks who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of
the Council. He or she shall hold office for a term of two years and until his
or her successor is appointed and qualified. The Superintendent of Waterworks
shall be the executive officer of the Water Department and shall have charge of
the improvement, repair, care, maintenance and construction of all water mains,
hydrants, pumps, tanks, wells, sewers, apparatus, tools and equipment belonging
to the city for the care and maintenance of the water and sewer system of the
city, including the buildings and structures in connection therewith.
(‘82 Code, § 2.40.010)
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of
Waterworks, subject to the order or approval of the Council, to:
      (1)   Manage and control all materials and things pertaining to the Water
Department;
      (2)   Employ and discharge all employees and workmen needed in the work
and service of the Water Department;
      (3)   Supervise and inspect all materials furnished and work done by and
for the water and sewer system of the city;
      (4)   Compel strict compliance with, and execution of, all contracts made
by or on behalf of the Water Department;
      (5)   Maintain and control all property of the Department of Water;
      (6)   Compel strict compliance with all rules, regulations and control of
the water and sewer system of the city; and
      (7)   Make complaint and institute prosecution for the violation of such
rules, regulations or ordinances.
(‘82 Code, § 2.40.030)
   (C)   Collection of rents and rates; maintenance of documents. The
Superintendent of Waterworks shall keep accurate maps or charts showing the
location and dimensions of all mains, hydrants, connections and other pertinent
facts and features of the sewer and water system of the city. He or she shall
also collect all rents or rates due the city by virtue of such water or sewer
service and shall keep such books, accounts and records as may be required by
the Council or by ordinance or statute and shall make such reports and
statements as may be required by the Council.   
(‘82 Code, § 2.40.040)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Municipal use tax
   
33.03   Retailer’s occupation tax
   
33.04   Corporate tax rate
   
33.05   Garbage fund tax rate
   
33.06   Police protection tax
   
33.07   Service occupation tax
   
33.08   Water fund tax
   
33.09   City carrying charge
   
33.10   Municipal service occupation tax
   
33.11   Municipal retailers’ occupation tax
Budget
   
33.25   Adoption of annual budget
   
33.26   Budget Officer
   
33.27   Computation of annual budget
   
33.28   Public inspection, notice and hearing on budget
   
33.29   Revision of annual budget
Locally Imposed and Administered Taxes
   
33.40   Title
   
33.41   Scope
   
33.42   Definitions
   
33.43   Notices
   
33.44   Late payment
   
33.45   Payment
   
33.46   Certain credits and refunds
   
33.47   Audit procedure
   
33.48   Appeal
   
33.49   Hearing
   
33.50   Interest and penalties
   
33.51   Abatement
   
33.52   Installment contracts
   
33.53   Statute of limitations
   
33.54   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.55   Publication of tax ordinances
   
33.56   Local Tax Administrator
Interested Parties Registries
   
33.70   Established
   
33.71   Rules
   
33.72   Registration Form for individuals
   
33.73   Registration Form for organizations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal and municipal year of the city shall begin on the first day of
May in each year and terminate with the last day of April in the year
immediately following.
(‘82 Code, § 3.04.010)
§ 33.02 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate. A tax is imposed in accordance with the provisions
of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the city any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of the
Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of
such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the
Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
(‘82 Code, § 3.08.010)
   (B)   Collection. The tax shall be collected by the Illinois Department of
Revenue for all cities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(‘82 Code, § 3.08.020)
   (C)   Transmittal of enacting ordinance to State Department of Revenue. The
City Clerk is directed to transmit to the Illinois Department of Revenue a
certified copy of the ordinance codified in this chapter not later than five
days after its effective date.
(‘82 Code, § 3.08.030) (Ord. 677, passed - -74)
§ 33.03 RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the
rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while the ordinance codified in this chapter is in effect, in
accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.
(‘82 Code, § 3.12.010)
   (B)   Report filing. Every person engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the city shall file all reports as
required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3 to the State Department of Revenue.
(‘82 Code, § 3.12.020)
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time such report is filed there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(‘82 Code, § 3.12.030)
   (D)   Transmittal of enacting ordinance to State Department of Revenue. The
City Clerk is directed to transmit to the State Department of Revenue a
certified copy of the ordinance codified in this chapter not later than five
days after its effective date.
(‘82 Code, § 3.12.040)
(Ord. 632, passed - -69)
§ 33.04 CORPORATE TAX RATE.
   (A)   Tax rate. The maximum tax rate for general corporate purposes for the
city shall be .2412% of the assessed value of all taxable property in the city
as ascertained by law.
(‘82 Code, § 3.16.010)
   (B)   Ordinance copy filing. A certified copy of the ordinance codified in
this section shall be filed with the County Clerk within 20 days after its
adoption.
(‘82 Code, § 3.16.020)
   (C)   Effective date of provisions. The ordinance codified in this section
shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
(‘82 Code, § 3.16.030)
(Ord. 455, passed - -51)
§ 33.05 GARBAGE FUND TAX RATE.
   The tax rate for the garbage fund is increased by .04% to be effective
immediately, and the taxing rate for the garbage fund is in no event to exceed
.10% of the full cash value as equalized or assessed by the State Department of
Local Government Affairs on all taxable property in the city.
(‘82 Code, § 3.20.010)
§ 33.06 POLICE PROTECTION TAX.
   A tax is imposed for the purpose of police protection in this city at the
rate of .05% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue
of all the taxable property therein for the first year in which this tax is
levied, and at a rate of .075% of the value as equalized or assessed by the
Department of Revenue for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding
years, all in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-3.
(‘82 Code, § 3.28.010) (Ord. 635, passed - -69)
§ 33.07 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in this city in
the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of
all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 8-11-5.
(‘82 Code, § 3.32.010)
   (B)   Reporting requirement. Every supplier or serviceman required to
account for municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this city shall
file all reports as required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9 to the State
Department of Revenue.
(‘82 Code, § 3.32.020)
   (C)   Due date of payment. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed.
(‘82 Code, § 3.32.040)
   (D)   Ordinance copy filing. The City Clerk is directed to transmit to the
State Department of Revenue a certified copy of the ordinance codified in this
section not later than five days after the effective date of this section.
(‘82 Code, § 3.32.050)
(Ord. 633, passed - -69)
§ 33.08 WATER FUND TAX.
   (A)   Appropriation and levy. The City Council deems it in the best interest
of the city to appropriate and levy a city water fund tax for the extension and
maintenance of waterworks in the city.
(‘82 Code, § 3.40.010)
   (B)   Statutory authority. The appropriation and levy are made pursuant to
ILCS Ch. 24, § 11-131-1.
(‘82 Code, § 3.40.020)
   (C)   Levy by county. The County Clerk is directed to levy the tax for the
1976 tax year and all years following thereafter.
(‘82 Code, § 3.40.030)
(Ord. 702, passed - -76)
§ 33.09 CITY CARRYING CHARGE.
   There shall be a carrying charge of 1.5% per month on the unpaid balance of
all late payments due the city except payments due for water services and
payments due as a result of criminal and quasi-criminal penalties and fines.
(‘82 Code, § 3.44.010) (Ord. 741, passed - -79)
§ 33.10 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   Commencing July 1, 2011, a non-home rule municipal service occupation tax of
three-quarters of 1% is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged within the city
in the business of making sales of service on the selling price of all tangible
personal property transferred by such servicemen or servicewomen either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service. Such tax shall not apply to the sale of prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, and medical appliances; the sale of insulin,
urine testing materials, syringes, and needles used by diabetics; or the sale
of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it
is sold, other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been
prepared for immediate consumption.
(Ord. 1423, passed 12-6-10)
§ 33.11 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
   Commencing July 1, 2011, a non-home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax
of three-quarters of 1% is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city. Such tax
shall not apply to the sale of an item of tangible personal property which is
titled and registered by an agency of the State of Illinois; the sale of
prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, and medical appliances; the
sale of insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles used by
diabetics; or the sale of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off
the premises where it is sold, other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and
food that has been prepared for immediate consumption.
(Ord. 1423, passed 12-6-10)
BUDGET
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The city hereby adopts ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9 through 8-2-9.10
providing for an annual municipal budget in lieu of the passage of an annual
appropriation ordinance.
(Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 33.26 BUDGET OFFICER.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a Budget
Officer who shall have the powers, duties and responsibilities enumerated in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,§§ 8-2-9 through 8-2-9.10 as they are now, or may hereafter
be amended. The Budget Officer shall give a bond in such sum as may be required
by statute.
(Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 33.27 COMPUTATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The Budget Officer shall compile a budget pursuant to §
33.25 and
33.26 as they are now, or may hereafter be amended, containing estimates of the
revenues available before the beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies
together with recommended expenditures for the city and all of its boards,
commissions and departments. The annual budget shall be adopted before the
beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies.
(Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 33.28 PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET.
   Copies of the tentative budget shall be made available for public inspection
in printed or typewritten form in the office of the City Clerk for at least ten
days prior to the passage of the annual budget. Not less than one week after
the budget is available for inspection and prior to final action of the budget,
at least one public hearing shall be held on the budget by the City Council.
Notice of this hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper having a
general circulation in the city at least one week prior to the time of hearing.
(Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 33.29 REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The annual budget may be revised by a vote of two-thirds of the City
Council, by deleting, adding to, or changing budgeted items. No revision of the
budget shall be made increasing the budget in the event funds are not available
to effectuate the purpose of the revision.
(Ord. 895, passed - -)
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAXES
§ 33.40 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the "Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance."
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.41 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.42 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and City Council.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city and not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the Local Tax
Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead. The Local Tax
Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.43 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.44 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city with adequate postage
prepaid.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.45 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order. First to the tax due for the applicable period; second to the
interest due for the applicable period; and third to the penalty for the
applicable period.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.46 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
one year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made.
The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and administered
taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly
to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayers recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.47 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (C)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (D)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (E)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (F)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   (G)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (H)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.48 APPEAL.
   (A)    The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 30 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.49 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
33.48, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.50 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 12%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.51 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.52 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.53 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.54 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.55 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
§ 33.56 LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 1151, passed 1-2-01)
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRIES
§ 33.70 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Clerk or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to create an "interested parties" registry in accordance with ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2 for each redevelopment project area created under the
Act and not terminated by the city, whether now existing or created after
October 24, 2014, including but not limited to, the proposed Illinois Route 84
and 31st Avenue Redevelopment Project Area.
   (B)   In accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2, the city hereby
adopts the registration rules for each such "interested parties" registry.
(Ord. 1237, passed 5-3-04; Am. Ord. 1513, passed 10-20-14)
§ 33.71 RULES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in these registration rules, the following terms
shall have the definitions set forth below.
      (1)   ACT. The Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
      (2)   CITY. The City of Fulton, Illinois.
      (3)   INTERESTED PARTY(S):
         (a)   Any organization(s) active within the city;
         (b)   Any resident(s) of the city; and
         (c)   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the Act to
register in a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been terminated in accordance with these registration
rules.
      (4)   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that is:
         (a)   Intended to qualify (or that has subsequently qualified) as a
"redevelopment project area" under the Act; and
         (b)   Is subject to the "interested parties" registry requirements of
the Act.
      (5)   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules or
such revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
      (6)   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested parties registry, and all
such registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to § 11-74.4-
4.2 of the Act for a Redevelopment Project Area.
   (B)   Establishment of registry. The city shall establish a separate
interested parties registry for each redevelopment project area, whether
existing as of the date of the adoption of these registration rules or
hereafter established. The city shall establish a new registry whenever it has
identified an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment
project area. In any event, the process of establishing the new registry must
be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by
division (J) of this section or any other notices required by the Act with
respect to the proposed redevelopment project area.
   (C)   Maintenance of registry. The registries shall be maintained by the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Registration by residents. An individual seeking to register as an
interested party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and
submit a registration form to the City Clerk. Such individual must also submit
a copy of a current driver's license, lease, voter registration card, utility
bill, financial statement or such other evidence as may be acceptable to the
City Clerk to establish the individual's current city residency in the city.
   (E)   Registration by organizations. An organization seeking to register as
an interested party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete
and submit a registration form to the City Clerk. Such organization must also
submit a one-page statement describing the organization's current operations in
the city.
   (F)   Determination of eligibility. All individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation complies with these registration
rules shall be registered in the applicable registry within ten business days
of the City Clerk's receipt of all required submissions. The City Clerk shall
provide written notice to the registrant confirming such registration. Upon
registration, interested parties shall be entitled to receive all notices and
documents required to be delivered under these registration rules or as
otherwise required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment
project area. If the City Clerk determines that a registrant's registration
form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with
these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give written notice to the
registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation.
   (G)   Renewal and termination. An interested party’s registration shall
remain effective for a period of three years. At any time after such three year
period, the City Clerk may provide written notice by regular mail to the
interested party stating that such registration shall terminate unless the
interested party renews such registration within 30 days of the City Clerk's
mailing of written notice. To renew such registration, the interested party
shall, within such 30 day period, complete and submit the same registration
form and supporting documentation then required of initial registrants in order
to permit the City Clerk to confirm such person's residency or such
organization's operations in the city. The registration of all individuals and
organizations whose registration form and supporting documentation is submitted
in a timely manner and complies with these registration rules shall be renewed
for an additional, consecutive three year period. If the City Clerk determines
that a registrant's renewal registration form and/or supporting documentation
is incomplete or does not comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk
shall give written notice to the registrant at the address specified in the
renewal registration form submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect
(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new
registration form and supporting documentation within 30 days of receipt of the
City Clerk's notice. If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the
interested party’s receipt of the City Clerk's notice, the interested party’s
registration shall be terminated. Any interested party whose registration is
terminated shall be entitled to register again as a first-time registrant.
   (H)   Amendment to registration.
      (1)   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written
notice to the City Clerk by certified mail or in person of any of the
following:
         (a)   A change in address for notice purposes;
         (b)   In the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and
         (c)   A termination of registration.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notice, the City Clerk shall revise the
applicable registry accordingly.
   (I)   Registries available for public inspection. Each registry shall be
available for public inspection during normal city business hours. The registry
shall include the name, address and telephone number of each interested party
and, for organizations, the name and phone number of a designated contact
person.
   (J)   Notices to be sent to interested parties. Interested parties shall be
sent the following notices and any other notices required under the Act with
respect to the applicable redevelopment project area:
      (1)   Pursuant to § 11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the availability
of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to
obtain this information, shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of
time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing for the
proposed redevelopment plan;
      (2)   Pursuant to § 11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice shall be sent by mail
not later than ten days following the city’s adoption by ordinance of changes
to proposed redevelopment plans that do not (1) add additional parcels of
property to the proposed redevelopment project area; (2) substantially affect
the general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; (3) substantially
change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project; or (4)
increase the number of inhabited residential units to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, provided that as measured from the time of creation
of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of household will
exceed ten;
      (3)   Pursuant to § 11-74.4-5(c) of the Act, notice shall be sent by mail
not later than ten days following the city’s adoption by ordinance of
amendments to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not (1) add
additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project area; (2)
substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment plan; (3)
substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project; (4) increase the
total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan
by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the date the redevelopment
plan was adopted; (5) add additional redevelopment project costs to the
itemized list of redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan;
or (6) increase the number of inhabited residential units to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area, provided that as measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of
households will exceed ten;
      (4)   Pursuant to § 11-74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act, for redevelopment plans
or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten or more
inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited residential
units, notice of the availability of the annual report described in § 11-74.4-5
(d), including how to obtain the annual report, shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after completion of the certified audit report;
      (5)   Pursuant to § 11-74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the preliminary
public meeting required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment project area
that will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited residential units
or which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units shall be sent by
certified mail not less than 15 days before the date of such preliminary public
meeting; and
      (6)   Such other notices as required by the Act.
   (K)   Non-interference. These registration rules shall not be used to
prohibit or otherwise interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and
individuals to register for receipt of information to which they are entitled
under the Act or applicable law.
   (L)   Amendment of registration rules. These registration rules may be
amended by the City subject to and consistent with the requirements of the Act.
These registration rules shall be the registration rules for each of the city’s
redevelopment project area and shall replace any previously adopted
registration rules.
(Ord. 1237, passed 5-3-04; Am. Ord. 1513, passed 10-20-14)
§ 33.72 REGISTRATION FORM FOR INDIVIDUALS (NON-ORGANIZATIONS).
   Please read and review the TIF Interested Party Registry Rules. If you are
eligible to register as an individual, complete the following application form.
Submit the completed form along with a copy of your current driver's license or
state identification card (to confirm proof of address) to the City Clerk of
the City of Fulton, 415 11th Avenue, Fulton, Illinois 61252. After the City
Clerk of the City of Fulton receives this application, you will be contacted by
mail within ten days after the receipt of this application.
PLEASE PRINT WITH A BLUE OR BLACK PEN.
(1)   Name                              
(2)   Address                           
(All notices will be
mailed to this address.)                        
(3)   Home telephone number                     
(4)   TIF District for which I am applying to become an interested party,
pursuant to the Tax Allocation Redevelopment Act, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-
74.4-1 et seq. and the ordinance of the City of Fulton, Whiteside County,
Illinois, authorizing the establishment of tax increment financing "interested
parties" registries and adopting registration rules for such registries. If you
want to become an interested party for more than one TIF District, you must
complete and submit a separate registration form for each and every TIF
District.
            Signature                                                        
            Date                                                           
(Ord. 1237, passed 5-3-04)
§ 33.73 REGISTRATION FORM FOR ORGANIZATIONS (NON-INDIVIDUALS).
   Please read and review the TIF Interested Party Registry Rules. If you are
eligible to register as an organization, complete the following application
form. In addition, you must complete a one-page statement describing the
organization's current operations and activity within the municipality. Submit
the completed form, the one-page statement, and a copy of your current driver's
license or state identification card (to confirm proof of address) to the City
Clerk of the City of Fulton, 415 11th Avenue, Fulton, Illinois 61252. After the
City Clerk of the City of Fulton receives this application, you will be
contacted by mail within ten days after the receipt of this application.
PLEASE PRINT WITH A BLUE OR BLACK PEN.
(1) Name of organization                        
(2) Address of organization                        
(All notices will be
mailed to this address.)                        
(3) Telephone number
of organization                           
(4) Name and position of
individual signing form                        
(5) TIF District for which I am applying to become an interested party,
pursuant to the Tax Allocation Redevelopment Act, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-
74.4-1 et seq., and the ordinance of the City of Fulton, Whiteside County,
Illinois authorizing the establishment of tax increment financing "interested
parties" registries and adopting registration rules for such registries. If you
want to become an interested party for more than one TIF District, you must
complete and submit a separate registration form for each and every TIF
District.
               Signature                                
               Date                                   
(Ord. 1237, passed 5-3-04)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Smoking prohibited in city government buildings and vehicles
   
34.02   Compliance with the Illinois Freedom of Information Act
   
34.03   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
   
34.04   Expense reimbursement policy
   
34.05   Whistleblower protection policy
§ 34.01 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CITY GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   All city-owned buildings and city-owned motor vehicles are declared
smoke free facilities effective March 6, 2001, pursuant to the Illinois Clear
Indoor Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 80.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to place appropriate signs in
his discretion on any city property, buildings, or motor vehicles to enforce
the terms of this section.
(Ord. 1156, passed 3-6-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99 
§ 34.02 COMPLIANCE WITH THE ILLINOIS FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby designated as the FOIA Officer to whom all
initial requests for access to the records of the city are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at the offices of the City Clerk at 415 11th Avenue,
Fulton, Illinois, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday. In the event that Linda Hollis, City Clerk, is not available during the
times described above, then Tammy Garibay is designated as the first deputy
FOIA Officer and if Tammy Garibay is not available during the times described
above, then ReNee Borgman is designated as the second deputy FOIA Officer to
whom such initial requests are to be made. This information shall be posted on
the city website when and if applicable to the city under the law. Except in
instances when records are furnished immediately, the FOIA Officer, or her
designees, shall receive requests submitted to the city under the Freedom of
Information Act, ensure that the city responds to requests in a timely fashion,
and issue responses under the Act. The FOIA Officer shall develop a list of
documents or categories of records that the city shall immediately disclose
upon request.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA Officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the city receives the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   (C)   The FOIA Officer and Deputy FOIA Officers shall, within six months
after January 1, 2010, successfully complete an electronic training curriculum
to be developed by the Public Access Counselor of the State of Illinois and
thereafter successfully complete an annual training program. Whenever a new
Freedom of Information Officer is designated by the city, that person shall
successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within 30 days after
assuming the position.
   (D)   Any records which are the subject of a request under the Freedom of
Information Act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the
FOIA Officer, or by an employee of the city acting under the direction of the
FOIA Officer. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting
them or by any person who is not employed by the city.
   (E)   If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether
certified or not, shall be determined from time to time by the FOIA Officer
pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Freedom of Information Act. The City Clerk
shall maintain a written schedule of current fees in the Clerk's office. The
fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and the
cost of certifying copies, if certification is requested.
   (F)   In the event that a request to inspect city records is denied by the
FOIA officer, the denial may be appealed to the Public Access Counselor of the
State of Illinois.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall prepare: a City Information Directory; a block
diagram of the functional subdivisions of the city; a City Records Directory;
and a Records Catalogue, all of which shall be substantially in the same form
as the documents attached to Ordinance No. 1404 and made a part hereof as
Exhibits “A”, “B”, “C”, and “D”. This information shall also be posted on the
city's website, when applicable.
(Ord. 1404, passed 2-1-10)
§ 34.03 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person’s sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Fulton, Illinois to prohibit harassment of any person by any
municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or
office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal
agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited
from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship
or lack thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment.
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affection such individual, or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises.
         (c)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person”.
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a commissioner, or the Mayor of the
Village.
            2.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
      (3)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
      (4)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purpose of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)),
an employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in
a court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation, (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, §
6-101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people
to conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that
which he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with the IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation to the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65, may
be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 1617, passed 12-10-18)
§ 34.04 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   It is a policy of the City of Fulton to reimburse employees for all
necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the employee within the employee's
scope of employment and directly related to services performed for the City of
Fulton. The City of Fulton is not responsible for losses due to an employee's
own negligence, losses due to normal wear or losses due to theft unless the
theft was a result of the City of Fulton's negligence. This policy was drafted
using the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act (ILCS Ch. 820, Act 115, §
9.5), effective January 1, 2019.
   (B)   Definitions.
      EMPLOYEE. An employee, officer or official of the City of Fulton.
Municipal officers and officials may be subject to additional conditions or
restrictions for reimbursement of expenses related to their specific offices
and other state statutes or local ordinances.
      NECESSARY EXPENDITURES. All reasonable expenditures or losses required of
the employee in the discharge of employment duties and that inure to the
primary benefit of the City of Fulton, subject to the provisions of this
policy.
   (C)   Guidelines for necessary expenditures.
      (1)   Authorized expenditures include: cell phone expenses, laptop,
mileage, tools, equipment, Internet, meals, registration fees, training
expenses, tolls and parking fees.
      (2)   Unauthorized expenditures include: home Internet service, personal
cell phone expenses, mileage incurred on personal vehicles, alcoholic beverages
and entertainment expenses.
      (3)   Any expenditure that is not requested and approved prior to
purchase is deemed an unauthorized expenditure and may not be reimbursed.
      (4)   Reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by an
employee is guided by Resolution Number 265, entitled A Resolution Regulating
Control of Travel, Meal and Lodging Expenses passed by the City Council
pursuant to the Local Government Travel Expense Control Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act
150).
   (D)   Pre-approval for authorized expenditures.
      (1)   An employee shall submit a written request to purchase any of the
above authorized expenditures at least three business days in advance of
incurring the expense on a form entitled "expense reimbursement form" as
approved by the City Council. Following approval of the expense, the employee
will be reimbursed as provided in the following section. If the expense is not
approved following a written request, the employee will not be entitled to
reimbursement.
      (2)   In the event that an expense is not pre-approved, reimbursement
will be subject to the discretion of the City Council.
   (E)   Reimbursement procedure for authorized expenditures.
      (1)   An employee shall submit an "expense reimbursement form" along with
appropriate supporting documentation not later than 30 calendar days after
incurring the expense.
      (2)   Where supporting documentation is nonexistent, missing or lost, the
employee shall submit a signed statement regarding any such receipts.
      (3)   An employee may not be entitled to reimbursement if the employee
has failed to comply with this expense reimbursement policy.
(Ord. 1639, passed 10-14-19)
§ 34.05 WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   The City of Fulton provides whistleblower protections in two important
areas: confidentiality and against retaliation. The confidentiality of a
whistleblower will be maintained to the extent allowable by law, however, an
identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough investigation, to
comply with the law and to provide accused individuals their legal rights of
defense. A whistleblower may also waive confidentiality in writing. The
municipality will not retaliate against a whistleblower. This includes, but is
not limited to, protection from retaliatlon in the form of an adverse
employment action such as termination; compensation decreases, or poor work
assignments and threats of physical harm. Any whistleblowers who believe they
are being retaliated against must submit a written report to the Auditing
Official within 60 days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action. The
right of a whistleblower for protection against retaliation does not include
immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated,
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUDITING OFFICIAL. Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by
whatever name, in the municipality whose duties may include: receiving,
registering and investigating complaints and information concerning misconduct,
inefficiency and waste within the municipality; investigating the performance
of officers, employees, functions and programs; and, promoting economy,
efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in the administration of the programs
and operations of the municipality.
         (a)   The Auditing Official shall be the Mayor, until replaced by the
municipality.
         (b)   If the municipality does not designate an Auditing Official, the
Auditing Official defaults to the State's Attorney of Whiteside County.
      EMPLOYEE. Anyone employed by the municipality, whether in a permanent or
temporary position, including full-time, part-time and intermittent workers.
Employee also includes members of appointed boards or commissions, whether paid
or unpaid. Employee also includes persons who have been terminated because of
any report or complaint submitted under ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1
(hereinafter § 4.1).
      IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION.
         (a)   Any action by an employee of the municipality; an appointed
member of a board, commission or committee; or, an elected official of the
municipality that is undertaken in violation of a federal or state law or local
ordinance; is an abuse of authority; violates the public's trust or expectation
of their conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the public's health
or safety; or, is a gross waste of public funds. The action need not be within
the scope of the employee’s, elected official’s, board member’s, commission
member's or committee member’s official duties to be subject to claim of
"improper governmental action.
         (b)   Improper governmental action does not include the municipality's
personnel actions, including, but not limited to employee grievances,
complaints, appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments,
reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance evaluations, reductions
in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands or violations of
collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that the action amounts
to retaliation.
      RETALIATE, RETALIATION OR RETALIATORY ACTION. Any adverse change in an
employee's employment status or the terms and conditions of employment that
results from an employee's protected activity under § 4.1. Retaliatory action
includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate staff to perform duties;
frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable office changes; refusal to
assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of reprimand or unsatisfactory
performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in pay; denial of promotion;
transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal; or, other disciplinary
action made because of an employee's protected activity under § 4.1.
      WHISTLEBLOWER. An employee, as defined in this policy, of the
municipality who:
         (a)   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under § 4.1;
         (b)   Cooperates with an investigation by an Auditing Official related
to a report of improper governmental action; or
         (c)   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an
improper governmental action.
   (C)   Duties of an Auditing Official.
      (1)   Each Auditing Official shall establish written processes and
procedures consistent with the terms of this policy and best practices for
investigations for managing complaints filed under § 4.1. Each Auditing
Official shall investigate and dispose of reports of improper governmental
action in accordance with these processes and procedures, and all other
provisions of § 4.1.
      (2)   The Auditing Official must provide each employee a written summary
or a complete copy of § 4.1 upon commencement of employment and at least once
each year of employment. At the same time, the employee shall also receive a
copy of the written processes and procedures for reporting improper
governmental actions from the applicable Auditing Official.
      (3)   Auditing Officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or
expenses incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution.
      (4)   In instances where an Auditing Official determines that restitution
will not suffice, the Auditing Official may make their investigation findings
available for the purposes of aiding in that employee's, or the employee’s
attorney's, effort to make the employee whole.
      (5)   Auditing Officials are responsible for reading the full context of
§ 4.1 and complying with all requirements.
      (6)   If no Auditing Official is designated, the State's Attorney of
Whiteside County will be the default Auditing Official.
   (D)   Duties of an employee.
      (1)   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly
submitted to the Auditing Official who is responsible for investigating and
coordinating corrective action.
      (2)   If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern of, improper
governmental action, the employee shall make a written report of the activity
to the Auditing Official. The employee must exercise sound judgment to avoid
baseless allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of
wrongdoing will be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
      (3)   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity
or for determining fault or corrective measures; a designated Auditing Official
is charged with these responsibilities.
   (E)   Defend Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. § 1836) Compliance. § 7(b):
Immunity from Liability for Confidential Disclosure of a Trade Secret to the,
Government or in a Court Filing:
      (1)   Immunity. An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly
liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a
trade secret that: (A) is made (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local
govemment official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and (ii)
solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of
law; or (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or
other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
      (2)   Use of trade secret information in anti-retaliation lawsuit. An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attomey of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual (A) files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and
(B) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order."
   (F)   Employee acknowledgment. Employees are required to sign a written
acknowledgment that they have received, read and understand this policy, and to
submit that acknowledgement to the Auditing Official or other designated
official of the municipality. The form that follows will satisfy this
requirement upon receipt.
Employee Acknowledgment of Whistleblower Protection Policy
   I confirm that I have received, read and understand the "Whistleblower
Protection Policy" for employees of the City of Fulton.
   I understand that as an employee, lt is my responsibility to abide by this
Policy. If I have questions about the Policy, I understand it is my
responsibility to seek clarification from the proper supervisory department,
the Auditing Official or the State’s Attorney of Whiteside County, Illinois.
Print Name:                                                        
Employee Signature:                                                        
Date:                                            
(Ord. 1686, passed 8-23-21)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
      
54.   AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD
      
55.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
Section
   
50.01   Declaration of need
   
50.02   Combined waterworks and sewerage system established
   
50.03   Procedure for future improvements
   
50.04   Charges
Cross-reference:
   Payment date, see §
51.089
§ 50.01 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   It is found, determined and declared necessary for the best interests of
this city that the existing waterworks system of the city and the existing
sanitary sewerage system of the city be combined into a single utility to be
known and designated as the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
city.
(‘82 Code, § 13.04.010) (Ord. 477, passed - -55)
§ 50.02 COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   All property, real, personal and mixed, comprising the now existing
waterworks system and sanitary sewerage system of the city as described in
Ordinance 477 is found, determined and declared to constitute the properties of
the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 13.04.020) (Ord. 477, passed - -55)
§ 50.03 PROCEDURE FOR FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS.
   From and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
the existing waterworks system and the sanitary sewerage system shall be owned
and operated by this city as a combined utility, known as the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the city, and all improvements and extensions
to the waterworks and sewerage system either or both shall be considered as
improvements and extensions to the combined utility. All the properties,
assets, obligations and liabilities of all kinds of the waterworks system and
of the sanitary sewerage system, existing, outstanding and accruing or to
accrue, shall be held, used, confessed and acknowledged as the properties,
assets, obligations and liabilities of the combined utility.
(‘82 Code, § 13.04.030)
§ 50.04 CHARGES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1757,
adopted 4-28-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   The monthly charges for wastewater treatment service inside the
corporate limits of the city shall be the sum of $6.83 for each connection for
a system fixed cost, and in addition, the customer shall pay $4.75 per 1,000
gallons or fraction thereof of water usage as measured by either a water meter
or sewer flow meter but in no event less than $4.75 per month.
   (B)   The wastewater rate charges for connections to a wastewater service
outside the corporate limits of the city shall be twice the amount for the
rates charged for connections inside the corporate limits of the city provided
in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   For wastewater and treatment service and water service, the charges
established for various services shall be established according to a schedule
of fees, which fees shall be determined from time to time by action of the City
Council and shall be set forth in the Schedule of Fees on file and available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk and which may be amended
from time to time by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (D)   Each customer of wastewater treatment services or water services shall
be charged an additional monthly fee of $2.00 to be known as the Customer Storm
Sewer Depreciation Fee.
(Ord. 1119, passed 1-20-99; Am. Ord. 1139, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 1209, passed
4-15-03; Am. Ord. 1279, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord. 1369, passed 5-5-08; Am. Ord.
1522, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord. 1565, passed 6-1-17; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 5-14-
18; Am. Ord. 1609, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 1628, passed 5-13-19; Am. Ord.
1651, passed 5-18-20; Am. Ord. 1680, passed 5-24-21; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-
28-22; Am. Ord. 1732, passed 2-26-24)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Contract with water system for water supply
   
51.002   Liability of owners for service
   
51.003   Injuring or interfering with water appliances
   
51.004   Taking water to supply boilers and the like
   
51.005   Claims against city for breakage of fixtures causing interruption of
supply
   
51.006   Sprinkling of lawns during fire alarm prohibited
   
51.007   Water connections outside city limits
   
51.008   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited
Connections and Specifications
   
51.020   Water connection service; permittee
   
51.021   Service pipe specifications
   
51.022   Laying, repairing service pipes
   
51.023   Size and location of taps
   
51.024   Pipes on outlet side
   
51.025   Water meters furnished by city; placement of meters
   
51.026   Expense, maintenance of meters
   
51.027   Supervision; reading, testing, and installation of meters and OSRs
   
51.028   Special exception - second water meter
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.040   Cross-connection control
   
51.041   General policy
   
51.042   Definitions
   
51.043   Water system
   
51.044   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.045   Survey and investigations
   
51.046   Where protection is required
   
51.047   Type of protection required
   
51.048   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.049   Inspection and maintenance
   
51.050   Booster pumps
   
51.051   Violations
Rates, Charges and Procedures
   
51.065   Establishment of rates and charges
   
51.066   Applications for service connections; deposit
   
51.067   Payment of billing; procedure; delinquency
   
51.068   Discontinuance of use; notification; fee for turning on supply
   
51.069   Tenant and owners
   
51.070   Authority to terminate water service
Water Wells
   
51.075   Adoption of state standards
   
51.076   State and city permit required; exceptions
   
51.077   Application for permit
   
51.078   Issuance of permit
   
51.079   Permit fee
   
51.080   Enforcement
Administration
   
51.085   Collection of moneys
   
51.086   Receipt of revenue; deposit; accounts to be kept
   
51.087   Collection agents
   
51.088   Violations
   
51.089   Payment date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 CONTRACT WITH WATER SYSTEM FOR WATER SUPPLY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered a part of the contract
with every person, entity or corporation who is supplied with water through the
water system of the city, and every such person, entity or corporation by
taking water shall be considered as expressing his or her consent to be bound
thereby.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.002 LIABILITY OF OWNERS FOR SERVICE.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be filed
in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed notice to all
owners of real estate of their liability for service supplied to any user of
the service of the waterworks system of the city on their properties.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.003 INJURING OR INTERFERING WITH WATER APPLIANCES.
   All persons are strictly prohibited from turning on the water into any
service pipe from the curb valve or when a meter is not in place, except by
permission of the Public Works Director or his or her designee (hereinafter
PWD). No person shall in any way obstruct the access to any hydrant or water
valve connected with any water pipe in the city by means of lumber, brick
building material or other articles, thing or hindrance whatsoever. No person,
except the PWD or Fire Chief shall take water from any fire hydrant or other
public water connection, except for fire purposes or for the use of the Fire
Department in case of fire, or in any way take or use water for private use
which is furnished by the waterworks, except from a public fountain, unless
such person shall receive permission from the PWD. Private fire hydrants shall
not be used for any other purpose than the extinguishing of fires. No person
shall deface, mark or in any way injure or meddle with fire hydrants, valves or
other appurtenances of the city water system or attempt to operate them without
authority. No person, without authority, shall hitch or attach any hose, animal
or any other object to a fire hydrant.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.004 TAKING WATER TO SUPPLY BOILERS AND THE LIKE.
   The city shall have no liability to any user of water for damages due to
lack of water pressure or quality of water.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.005 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY FOR BREAKAGE OF FIXTURES CAUSING INTERRUPTION OF
SUPPLY.
   No claim shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of any
main, service pipe, valve or other fixture, or for any other interruption of
the supply by reason of the breaking of machinery or stoppage for necessary
repairs.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.006 SPRINKLING OF LAWNS DURING FIRE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   All sprinkling of lawns or streets is prohibited when there is an alarm of
fire and during the continuance of a fire, further restrictions on the use of
water may have to be placed in the event of low water system pressure.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.007 WATER CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Existing water lines outside of the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   If there is an existing agreement that allows property owners
outside of the city to connect to the water lines connected to the city's water
system the agreement shall be followed.
      (2)   If there is no prior agreement or City Council action allowing
property owners outside of the city to connect to the water lines, no property
outside city limits shall be allowed to connect to the city water main without
an agreement to annex into the city should at any time in the future the
property become contiguous to the city.
      (3)   A water service line can only service one property and cannot run
across one property to another property.
      (4)   Within one year of the passage of this section, all water lines
that exist outside of the city and that are not owned and maintained by the
city will have installed a backflow prevention device per the cross-connection
control section of this chapter. As determined by the PWD, the backflow
prevention device shall be located as near as possible to the city border. The
city, at its discretion, may, at any time it desires, install a stop valve on
the city side of the backflow prevention device, such stop valve being within
the city limits. Should the owner of a water line outside of the city limits
fail to comply with this division, the city will install such a backflow
prevention device and charge the owner or owners for all material, labor and
equipment used to install the device.
   (B)   Any future extensions of the city water main system outside of the
city limits is prohibited unless it is part of an annexation agreement or as
agreed to by City Council action.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.008 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective
date of this section, the use of, or attempted use of, groundwater from within
a defined area of concern within the corporate limits of the city, as a potable
water supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method,
is hereby prohibited. This prohibition does not include or apply to public
water supply wells of the city already in place.
      (2)   Except for wells used for environmental monitoring purposes, the
use of, or attempted use of, groundwater for any purpose from within a defined
area of special concern within the corporate limits of the city, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of up to $250 for each violation. Each prohibited well or
other method employed and each day of use thereof in violation of the
prohibitions in this section is deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   AREA OF CONCERN. The area so platted on Exhibit A, which Exhibit is
approved as an integral part of Ordinance No. 1325, passed October 16, 2006. At
the date of first adoption hereof, the defined AREA OF CONCERN is all of that
area within the city shown within the red lines but not within the Area of
Special Concern on Exhibit A, consisting of the indicated property generally
downgradient of the drives incorporated "source area" for which a demonstration
of compliance with Tier 3 Remediation Objectives has not been made. The AREA OF
CONCERN may be verbally described as indicated on Exhibit A.
      (2)   AREA OF SPECIAL CONCERN. The area so platted on Exhibit A, which
Exhibit is approved as an integral part of Ordinance No. 1325, passed October
16, 2006. At the date of first adoption hereof, the defined AREA OF SPECIAL
CONCERN is enclosed by the area of concern shown on Exhibit A, consisting of
the property within the yellow lines on Exhibit A with such proximity to the
drives, incorporated "source area" as to make prohibition of all water
extraction a reasonable precaution for the protection of public health and
safety. The AREA OF SPECIAL CONCERN may be verbally described as indicated on
Exhibit A.
      (3)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      (4)   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
   (D)   Memorandum of understanding. The Mayor is hereby authorized and
directed to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency ("Illinois EPA") in which the city assumes
responsibility for tracking all sites that have received no further remediation
determinations from the Illinois EPA, notifying the Illinois EPA of changes to
this section, and taking certain precautions when siting new public potable
water supply wells.
(Ord. 1325, passed 10-16-06)
CONNECTIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 51.020 WATER CONNECTION SERVICE; PERMITTEE.
   (A)   In all cases the tapping of the main and putting in of the service
pipes and all extensions, alterations or repair of any service pipe or fixture
between the main and the meter shall be done by the city or a contractor
authorized by the PWD at the expense of the applicant or owner of the premises.
Piping, fixtures and appurtenances between the meter and the water main found
in improper condition shall be repaired, if deemed necessary by the PWD, at the
expense of the owner of the premises. In installing a water service the PWD, or
person authorized by him or her, will tap the main, inserting a stop valve that
shall be known as the corporation valve and shall lay the service pipe from the
main to the meter, which shall, if possible, be placed in the basement. The
service pipe shall be laid in the trench sufficiently weaving to allow not less
than one foot extra length in its entire length. A curb stop valve shall be
furnished and installed for each service at a location as near the property
line, but on city property, as possible. A cast iron service box shall be
furnished and installed over the curb stop valve where normally exposed to
vehicular traffic and held in a truly vertical position until sufficient
backfill has been placed to insure permanent vertical alignment of the box. The
top of the box shall be adjusted and set flush with the established ground
surface grade.
   (B)   Upon application of the owners of abutting and adjacent properties, or
for others on their behalf, of permits to tap into and connect to water main
extensions in the city, a fee, in addition to all other charges and fees for
installing said service and connection, shall be charged to and be required to
be paid by each said applicant for the privilege of connecting with and tapping
such water main extensions. These fees shall be established by ordinance and
reviewed annually.
   (C)   This section shall establish special improvement fees that may be
required in certain areas of the city that require the extension of a new water
main to provide service and which the City Council desires to recapture a
portion of the expense for such water main extension from those adjacent
property owners who will benefit from the same. Such special improvement fee
shall be in addition to the normal tap fee and other charges and shall be set
on a case-by-case basis as approved by the City Council.
   (D)   The city shall only be responsible for costs and expenses for
maintenance and repair of any water main line to the property line of the owner
or user. The city shall not be responsible for any costs or expenses for
maintenance or repair of a water line located on property owned by the user or
owner.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
§ 51.021 SERVICE PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All service pipes having a diameter of two inches or less shall be
copper service pipe unless approval is given in the water service application.
Service pipes having a diameter of exceeding two inches shall be those approved
in Table A, Appendix A, Section 890 of the December 1993 edition of the
Illinois Plumbing Code, or current revision of the Illinois Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Each separate piece of property, lot or building being furnished water
shall have at least one service pipe running from the water main to such piece
of property, lot or building.
   (C)   All copper service pipe shall conform to requirements for copper
service type as defined in the current edition of the "Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois," published by the Illinois
Society of Professional Engineers, the Illinois Municipal League and others.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.022 LAYING, REPAIRING SERVICE PIPES.
   In putting down and repairing pipes, the streets or alleys shall be opened
in the manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public and
admit the uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter of the street. No
excavation in any street or other public place shall be left open overnight
except by the permission of the PWD, and every precaution shall be taken to
insure public safety. The streets and pavement shall be restored in as good of
condition as it was in previous to making the excavation, and all dirt and
rubbish shall be immediately removed after the completion of the work at the
expense of the user.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.023 SIZE AND LOCATION OF TAPS.
   Taps of water mains for service connections shall not exceed the size and
spacing as recommended by the manufacturer of the water main. In cases where
larger taps would be required, a tee will be installed in the water main.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.024 PIPES ON OUTLET SIDE.
   The piping of the outlet side of the meter may be of such kind as the
consumer may direct, but must be sufficient to stand a pressure of 300 pounds
per square inch and subject to the approval of the PWD. In all new piping,
outlets shall be provided with an air chamber not less than 18 inches long on
the ground floor and 12 inches on all upper floors, when such outlets are
connected direct with the street water main.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.025 WATER METERS FURNISHED BY CITY; PLACEMENT OF METERS.
   (A)   All water furnished by the city shall be measured, normally by passing
through a meter. All meters of one inch or less will be furnished by the city
and used by the person paying the water bill. All meters shall be placed in the
basement, or if the structure does not have a basement on the lowest level,
unless special permission to the contrary is given by the PWD. In the case of
meters placed in pits, not associated with a living structure, the PWD shall
approve the placement of the water meter.
   (B)   From and after December 20, 1999, any newly constructed multiple
dwelling or any existing single-family dwelling, renovated or rezoned as a
multiple dwelling, shall require a separate water meter for each apartment,
dwelling or unit, unless otherwise granted an exception by a majority vote of
the City Council.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1137 passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 1560, passed
3-6-17)
§ 51.026 EXPENSE, MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   All consumers shall bear the expense of purchasing and installing their
meters (inside main meter and outside reader) and shall be held responsible for
damage to the same arising from theft, freezing, hot water, breakage or any
other cause, ordinary wear and tear in the city-owned meters excepted. All
ordinary wear and tear and defects in the construction of the city-owned meters
shall be repaired at the expense of the city. Such repairs or alterations as
the PWD may deem necessary shall be made on all supply pipes, stop valves and
all attachments and fixtures from the meter to the water main at the expense of
the consumer. After meters are once placed on a service, only the PWD shall be
allowed to take off, repair or replace the same. No person other than those
authorized by the PWD shall break the seal of any meter or in any way tamper
with the same.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.027 SUPERVISION; READING, TESTING AND INSTALLATION OF METERS AND OSRs.
   (A)   The PWD shall have free access at all reasonable times to the premises
of the consumer for the purpose of reading the internal water meter or
inspecting the piping and appurtenances connected to the meter, which includes
the wiring leading from the internal meter to the external outside reading
device (OSR).
   (B)   The PWD may remove the internal meter or the OSR at any time for
repair or for testing, and when any meter shall be found incorrect in its
measurement and unfit for further use, such internal meter or OSR shall be
replaced at once by one approved by the PWD. The city shall examine and test
any water meter furnished by the city whenever it is determined that an
unexplained fluctuation has occurred in the billing contrary to past billing
history. A consumer may request such testing, or the testing may be initiated
by the city; however, in all cases the city shall determine when and if such
testing will occur. If the unexplained fluctuation continues over two billing
cycles, the meter shall be tested. Should the meter register more than or equal
to 2% in excess of the amount of water that actually passes through the same,
the customer's billing for the current and the most recent past billing period
will be adjusted downward by the percentage that the meter was found to be
running fast. Should the meter register more than 2% less than the amount of
water that actually passes through the meter the customer's billing for the
current and the most recent past billing period will be adjusted upwards by the
percentage that the meter was found to be running slow.
   (C)   The occupants of any building or premises where a meter or an OSR is
located shall keep the same free from obstruction and they shall be so arranged
that it may be accessible at all times for the purposes of reading, inspection
or repairing; and if the meter or the OSR is obstructed, the water will be shut
off until such obstruction is removed and the reconnection charge is paid.
   (D)   An OSR will be installed for all water customers. If an OSR is not
installed, the owner or occupant of the premises will give reasonable access to
the PWD for the purpose of installing. Under certain conditions the PWD may
waive the requirement to install an OSR. This waiver will only be based on a
unique construction condition that would make the installation of an OSR cost
prohibitive. Unless waived by the PWD, the OSR will be installed in the
vicinity of the electrical meter and about five feet above the ground level.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.028 SPECIAL EXCEPTION - SECOND WATER METER.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, any residential
user may make application on a form supplied by the City Clerk for a second
water meter for a premises. Such application shall be reviewed by the Public
Works Director. If the application complies with all regulations of the city,
the Public Works Director may approve the application. By making an
application, the applicant is thereby granting the Public Works Director the
right to inspect the water meter and all connections and any other part of the
water supply system deemed necessary by the Public Works Director to insure
compliance with all the applicable regulations of the city and state law, which
inspections may be made at any time before an application is approved or any
time after an application is approved to ensure compliance. An approved
application shall permit the residential user to purchase a water meter from
the city and install the second water meter at the user's sole expense
according to the regulations of the city and approval of the Public Works
Director. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the construction
and installation of the water meter. The water registered by such water meter
shall only be used for purposes outside of any dwelling or structure and only
for the purpose of filling a swimming pool or watering a lawn, shrubs, trees,
or other landscaping. The water meter and water service shall comply with all
of the terms and conditions of any ordinances or rules or regulations of the
city with the exception of those specifically in conflict with this section.
The charges for any water used as indicated by the water meter shall be charged
for water usage according to the terms of this chapter. The city reserves the
right to repeal this provision at any time and if this exception is repealed it
shall apply to all users who obtain approval for installation of a second water
meter pursuant to this section and such user shall be required to remove the
second water meter according to the terms of the ordinance repealing this
section.
(Ord. 1145, passed 11-7-00)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.040 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed according to
the provisions of the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administration Code
890. If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
PWD an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the
public water supply system, the PWD will give notice to the water customer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his
or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner according to the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA) rules and regulations and all other applicable
regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, IEPA and
applicable regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of said
city, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method
of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the PWD and
the IEPA.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the PWD to cause surveys and investigations to
be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served by the public
water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public
water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter
of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as
the PWD shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and
available for review for a period of at least five years.
   (D)   The PWD shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the city for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross-connections, and that the PWD shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the PWD any information that he or she may request regarding
the piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the PWD, be deemed
evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   The PWD is authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any
connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter is known to exist,
and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of $40 is paid to the
city. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the PWD
is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water
supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of
the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party
can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of
the public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the PWD or
the IEPA, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination
or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the public water supply, the
PWD or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury,
damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's
water supply per the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.041 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purposes. The purposes of these rules and regulations are:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. The property owner or official agent shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or backsiphoning of contaminants through the owner's water service connection.
If, in the judgment of the PWD, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the PWD shall give
notice to the property owner to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The property owner shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the property owner to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
property owner shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and
repair as required by this chapter for a period of at least five years. The PWD
may require the property owner to submit a cross-connection inspection report
to the city to assist in determining whether or not service line protection
will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by the
PWD.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.042 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the IEPA.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree that could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)    DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION means a cross-connection formed when a
water system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)    INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION means a cross-connection through which
an unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced
into a safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP.  The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   INSPECTION. Plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water that does not meet public health standards for
drinking water and is not suitable for human consumption or culinary use.  (See
77 Ill. Admin. Code 900.) Any water of unknown quality is considered non-
potable.
(77 Ill. Admin. 890.120)
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person, including:
      (1)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of
water for all purposes, including without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems,
from the source of a private water supply on the premises or from the main in
the street, alley or at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble.
      (2) All piping from discharge of pumping units to and including pressure
tanks in water supply systems.
      (3)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for human consumption in accordance
with the Drinking Water Systems Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 900.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection that would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution that may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system that
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A public water supply is either a
"community water supply" or a “noncommunity water supply."
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a property
owner's water system after it has passed through the service connection and is
no longer under the control of the water supply owner.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner of a public water system.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.043 WATER SYSTEM.
   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the public
water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (A)   Public water supply system. The public water supply system shall
consist of the source facilities and the distribution system and shall include
all those facilities of the potable water system under the control of the PWD
up to the point where the consumer's water system begins. The source shall
include all components of the facilities used in the production, treatment,
storage and delivery of water to the public water supply distribution system.
The public water supply distribution system shall include the network of
conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water system.
   (B)   Consumer's water system. The consumer's water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.044 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological and
chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the IEPA. There
shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe substance may enter a
supply.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.045 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
PWD for the inspection of the presence or absence of cross-connections within
the consumer's premises and testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection
control devices within the consumer's premises.
   (B)   On request by the PWD, the consumer shall furnish information
regarding the piping system or systems or water use within the customer's
premises. The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
Superintendent of Water for the verification of information submitted by the
inspection consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-
connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted according to the ILCS Ch. 225, Act 320,
§ 3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed, or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphoning.
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed per the
manufacturer's instructions.
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by the PWD. The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing per the manufacturer's instructions.
      (4)   Testing and records. 
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by the PWD or IEPA personnel per ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5,
§ 4.
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the
most recent test, the name of the CCCDI and the type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include the following:
date of each test; name and approval number of person performing the test; test
results; repairs or servicing required; repairs and date completed; and serving
performed and dated completed.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.046 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the IEPA's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the PWD, actual or potential hazards to the public
water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the PWD and the source is
approved by the IEPA.
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system that are no longer under the
sanitary control of the PWD.
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the PWD, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the IEPA's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to the following types of facilities, unless the PWD
determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system
exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      (2)   Laboratories.
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants.
      (6)   Chemical plants.
      (7)   Metal plating industries.
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      (10)   Car washes.
      (11)   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.047 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
51.046(B)(1) through (3) shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
51.046(B)(4) and (5) shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.048 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made per the manufacturer's
instructions.
   (C)   Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of the device shall be
performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be available on-site.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.049 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made per the following schedule or
more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in manufacturer's
instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service performed
within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
IEPA as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
PWD.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.050 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the property owner to maintain the low-
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the PWD, at
least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.051 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The PWD shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the PWD, or if it is found
that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cut-
off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in working
order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
property owner has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in
conformance with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the PWD and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
property owner has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in
conformance with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the PWD.
   (D)   Neither the city, the PWD or its agents or assigns shall be liable to
any customers for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply per the terms of this chapter,
whether or not said termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The property owner responsible for backsiphoned material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter in
addition to any fines shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the same was
caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
RATES, CHARGES AND PROCEDURES
§ 51.065 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1757,
adopted 4-28-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   Rates or charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the
waterworks system of the city shall be based upon the amount of water consumed
as shown by the water meter and shall be charged monthly according to rates
established by a separate ordinance. Rates will be reviewed annually.
   (A)   Within the corporate limits.
      (1)   For each user of the water services, the monthly charge shall be a
per 1000 gallon rate plus a debt service charge equal to 100% of revenue bond
and/or loan principal and interest plus 25% for debt service reserves.
      (2)   (a)   The schedule of rates for water service for all connections
inside the corporate limits of the city shall be as follows:
            Debt service charge per customer plus                  $12.52
 
Number of Gallons Variable Cost
1,000 or less     $4.75 per 1,000 gallons or less
Next 5,000        $6.69 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
Next 5,000        $7.04 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
Next 5,000        $7.42 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
All over 16,000   $7.88 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
 
         (b)   The debt service charge per customer shall be charged for each
dwelling, apartment, trailer, unit or structure served by a single water meter.
The city shall have the right to inspect the premises at any time to insure
compliance with this provision. This provision shall apply to any trailer coach
park or multiple dwelling.
   (B)   Outside the corporate limits. The rates for water service for all
connection outside the corporate limits of the city shall be twice the amount
stated in division (A) of this section for water service connections inside the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 1-20-99; Am. Ord. 1139,
passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 1209, passed 4-15-03; Am. Ord. 1279, passed 5-2-05; Am.
Ord. 1387, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 1405, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 1449, passed
4-16-12; Am. Ord. 1522, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord. 1565, passed 6-1-17; Am. Ord.
1595, passed 5-14-18; Am. Ord. 1628, passed 5-13-19; Am. Ord. 1651, passed 5-
18-20; Am. Ord. 1680, passed 5-24-21; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-28-22; Am. Ord.
1732, passed 2-26-24)
§ 51.066 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Applications for water or sewer connections must be made in writing to
the city upon forms provided by the city. A separate application will be made
for each service connection, each building and each residence or business place
to be supplied. All applications shall contain the common address and parcel
number of the property to which service is requested to be made and shall be
signed by the property owner, or by the owner's authorized agent, with
satisfactory proof of such agency required and the tenant, if the tenant will
be billed for such service. In such application, the owner of the real
property, or his or her authorized agent, and the tenant, if the tenant is to
be billed for water service, must agree to the provisions of this chapter and
all other applicable provisions of the city code, as amended. The submission of
such written application shall be prima facie proof of the owner's and tenant's
agreement to be so governed and shall be conclusive proof of such agreement in
a court of law. If after the initial application the tenant, who is being
billed for water service, is replaced by another tenant, a new application must
be submitted to the city by the new tenant and owner. In all cases the owner is
responsible for any unpaid fees and charges of the owner.
   (B)   Each application for any city utility service shall be accompanied by
a deposit of $75 as security for such service(s) to be furnished. Deposits for
utility service(s) shall be maintained and accounted for separately and shall
be returned to the applicant without interest upon the written request for the
discontinuance of all service by the applicant. Should any utility service
remain connected, the deposit will be maintained by the city until such time as
all services are discontinued. There shall be deducted from said deposit any
moneys due and owing to the city for any city utility service.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.067 PAYMENT OF BILLING; PROCEDURE; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The person in whose name any city utility service(s) to a premises is
billed, the occupant of the premises, the owner of the premises and the user of
the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for such service, and
the service(s) is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition
that said persons are jointly and severally liable therefore to the city.
   (B)   Regular bill (white). Water, sewer and solid waste service charges
(hereinafter referred to collectively as utility services) shall be sent using
a white post card on or near the first day of the month succeeding the monthly
period for which service was supplied. All bills for utility services shall be
due and payable for the period that the service is billed, not later than the
close of business on the twentieth day after bills have been sent.
   (C)   Penalty bill (yellow). If payment of the full amount of the bill is
not made by the due date of the white post card bill, then a penalty of 10% of
the amount of the balance of the utility services bill will be added to the
amount due. The billing addressee will be notified of the 10% penalty by the
mailing of a yellow post card, which will allow an additional five days for the
bill plus the penalty to be paid. If the billing addressee is a tenant, the
owner will be sent a notice informing the owner that the tenant is overdue on
the utility services billing and the consequences if the bill is not paid. If
in the opinion of the City Administrator or his or her designee, the balance
owed is not of a sufficiently large amount to justify the administrative costs
required to collect said balance, the balance can be retained on the account
and will become payable on rendition of the next bill. Such determination to
retain balances on account will be made following guidelines put forth by the
City Administrator in a standing order. Said standing order may be amended from
time to time as is determined by the City Administrator to be prudent. If upon
expiration of the five day grace period the bill remains unpaid, the landlord
may provide notice to the city, upon such form as provided by the city, to
suspend service.
   (D)   Termination warning (red). If payment of the full amount of the bill
plus penalty is not made by the due date of the yellow post card bill, then a
red tag will be attached to the front door of the service address warning that
the water service will be shut off if the full amount of the bill including
penalties and the red tag fee is not paid by 12:00 noon the next working day.
The city may proceed with termination of water service at 12:01 the next
working day following the termination warning unless the person so notified
shall request a hearing prior to 12:00 noon the next working day following the
day that the termination warning is attached to the front door of the service
address. The hearing shall be held by the City Administrator or a person so
designated. Unless the hearing officer determines that the proposed termination
is not justified, or unless other arrangements for payment of the bill are
approved by the City Administrator or his or her designee, the city may proceed
with termination of the water service on the date stated in the termination
notice.
   (E)   Shut off.
      (1)   In the event the charges for utility services, penalties and fees
are not paid as demanded by the red termination warning, such service shall be
immediately terminated and shall not be reinstated until all past-due bills,
including the penalties and red tag fee, (as established by separate
ordinance), are paid in full or other arrangements for the payment of the
obligation are approved by the City Administrator or person so designated. If
the premises is occupied by a tenant, the owner shall be informed in writing
that the water has been shut off and that the past-due bill, penalties, fees
and the current bill must be paid in ten days.
      (2)   All shut off provisions in this chapter shall apply equally to
anyone using water only service, anyone using sewer only service, or anyone
using water and sewer service. The city has the option to shut off either water
or sewer service or both in its sole discretion in the event that utility
services may be terminated or shut off pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
If the city elects at its option to discontinue sewer service, the city may cap
the sewer service to the customer’s property and the property owner and user
shall be responsible for all expenses incurred by the city in capping the sewer
line.
   (F)   Reconnection of service. In the event that water services are
terminated for nonpayment of rates or charges for water, sewer or solid waste
services, there shall be a reconnection fee paid for reconnecting such service,
plus all costs incurred in filing and recording of any lien upon the real
estate.
   (G)   Delinquent bill. In the event the charges for service are not paid as
required by this chapter, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared
to be delinquent, and thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon
the real estate for which such service was supplied, and the City Clerk is
hereby authorized to file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds, and the filing of such statements in
the pertinent office shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges for
such service. The City Clerk may, in lieu of filing a lien upon the property,
refer the delinquent bill to the City Attorney for the purpose of filing a
claim in small claims court for the collection of said delinquent bill.
   (H)   Payment date. All payments made on any obligations required by or
pursuant to the terms of this title shall be deemed paid on the date the
payment is received by the city, except that all payments received after 3:00
p.m., central time, on a business day, shall be considered paid on the
following business day. A business day is a day in which the city offices are
open for business to the general public.
   (I)   Payment plan policy. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
code, a payment plan policy is hereby established. The payment plan policy
shall be administered by the City Administrator or his or her designee. The
policy shall be defined and adopted by the Administrator in a standing order as
may be amended from time to time in the determination of the Administrator and
approved by the City Council. The policy may grant the Administrator the power
to permit an applicant to make the payment of any delinquent water, sewer or
solid waste service charges on an installment basis and the power to waive any
penalty, shut off charge or fee that may be required under this code.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 1162,
passed 6-19-01)
§ 51.068 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE; MINIMUM CHARGES CONTINUE; NOTIFICATION; FEE FOR
TURNING ON SUPPLY.
   Users desiring to discontinue the use of water shall notify the city in
writing. Failure to do so will result in that user retaining the responsibility
to pay for the water, sewer and solid waste usage. Where service is
discontinued, the PWD will shut off service at the curb stop and provide a
final reading of both the inside and outside meters. However, where service
remains available to a premises whether in use or not, the minimum water and
sewer charge will be collected. In every case where the water is shut off
pursuant to notice or for cause, it shall not be turned on again except by the
PWD, and only after a reconnection fee is paid by the user for such service,
together with all service charges, penalties and fees that are due.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.069 TENANT AND OWNERS.
   So the city can obtain a final meter reading for prior tenants and starting
meter readings for new tenants, the owner is obligated to give the city a
minimum of a two working day written notice before a new tenant occupies the
premises. The owner also is obligated to inform the city the date when a tenant
in whose name the service is billed will vacate a premises. The city is not
responsible to keep track of tenants who may "skip-out" on an owner. In the
case where water service has been shut off due to nonpayment of service, the
water service will not be turned on until the past-due bills for water, sewer
and solid waste, penalties, red tag fee, the current bill and the reconnection
fee are paid by either the tenant or the owner.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.070 AUTHORITY TO TERMINATE WATER SERVICE.
   The City Administrator, or person designated by him or her, is authorized to
terminate or refuse to commence water service to a user at one location for the
failure of the user to pay for water, sewer and solid waste charges for
services provided to such user at a previous location.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
WATER WELLS
§ 51.075 ADOPTION OF STATE STANDARDS.
   The provisions of the Illinois Water Well Construction Code, ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq., and the rules and regulations adopted by the Department
of Public Health of the state pursuant to such code, are hereby adopted by the
city and incorporated in this subchapter by reference.
(Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
§ 51.076 STATE AND CITY PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No new noncommunity, semi-private or private water system well shall be
constructed or installed, nor shall any existing water well system be modified
or expanded, in the city until the person seeking to construct or install such
water system well has obtained a permit from the state or its designee, the
County Health Department, pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Water Well
Construction Code, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq., and a permit from the
city. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
issuance of a permit for the construction or installation of a water well
system for the purpose of irrigation. No permit shall be required for water
well systems constructed or installed prior to the effective date of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.077 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person seeking to construct or install a water well system within
the corporate limits of the city shall apply to the City Clerk for a permit to
allow such construction or installation.
   (B)   The application shall be made on forms provided by the Clerk and shall
include the following information and attachments:
      (1)   A plat by a registered land surveyor showing the location of the
proposed water well system and the boundaries of the property on which the
system is to be located, and also showing the location of the closest source of
a public water supply provided by the city.
      (2)   A written estimate or proposal from the city of the cost of
extending the water supply to the property to be served.
      (3)   A written estimate or proposal from a well contractor licensed
under the provisions of the Water Well and Pump Installation Contractor's
License Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 345, §§ 1 et seq., of the cost of drilling a
well and installing a water well system on the property to be served.
      (4)   A statement from the applicant that the public water supply is not
reasonably available to serve the property for which the permit is sought.
      (5)   The intended use of the water system.
      (6)   A copy of any permit issued by the Department of Public Health of
the state pursuant to Ch. 415, Act 30, § 6, or, in lieu thereof, a copy of the
application filed with the Department of Public Health seeking such permit and
showing the file stamp of the Department.
      (7)   The name and address of the person with whom the applicant has
contracted to construct or install the water well system.
(Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
§ 51.078 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of the application for a water system permit with the
required attachments, the Clerk shall forward the application to the City
Administrator and Public Works Director. Upon receipt of the application, the
City Administrator shall place the application on the agenda to be heard at the
City Council meeting to be held not earlier than 15 days after the receipt of
the application in the office of the City Administrator, and cause notice of a
public hearing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation, with such
publication to be made not less than ten days prior to the hearing before the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall authorize the City Clerk to issue a permit to
the applicant or shall deny the application based on the following
considerations:
      (1)   The rules and regulations of the Department of Public Health as
adopted and amended pursuant to ILCS Ch. 415, Act 30, § 6.
      (2)   The feasibility of extending the public water supply to the
property to be served, taking into consideration the cost of the extension of
the public water supply relative to the cost of constructing and installing a
private water well system, alternatives available to the applicant for the use
of the property, alternative sites or locations for the use proposed for the
property, the purpose for the construction or installation of a water well
system, the exposure or risk of exposure to sources of possible contamination
of the water well system, and other factors considered by the City Council to
be relevant.
(Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
§ 51.079 PERMIT FEE.
   The applicant shall pay a fee of $50 at the time of filing the application
for a water system permit.
(Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
§ 51.080 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City, through the Public Works Department, shall issue an order
compelling any person who is in violation of this subchapter to remedy the
violation. The order shall specify the violations and a date by which they
shall be remedied. Failure to remedy the violations by the date specified in
the order shall constitute an offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $750,
with each day subsequent to such date that the violations remain uncorrected
constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 1137, passed 8-7-00)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.085 COLLECTION OF MONEYS.
   The city shall render bills for utility services and for all rates and
charges in connection therewith and to collect all moneys due thereon.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.086 RECEIPT OF REVENUE; DEPOSIT; ACCOUNTS TO BE KEPT.
   The city shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks, sewerage
system and solid waste charges and all other funds and moneys incident to the
operation of such systems and account for the same in a separate fund
designated as the Water Fund, the Sewer Fund and the Sanitation Fund, and the
City Administrator shall administer such funds in every respect in the same
manner provided by the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5. Said City Administrator shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and current
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the waterworks, sewerage
and solid waste systems and at regular annual intervals.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.087 COLLECTION AGENTS.
   The City Administrator may designate additional collection agents located
within the city for the purpose of collecting any rates and charges for water
services rendered by the city. No sum shall be paid to any such collection
agent designated by the City Administrator for the services rendered in
collecting said rates and charges for water services rendered by the city.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.088 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If for any valid reason water is shut off to a premises by a person
authorized by the city and water service is restored to that premises by a
person not authorized by this code, the restoration of the water service shall
be considered to be an illegal act.
   (B)   After water service to a premises has been shut off per the notice
given by the red tag and then water is illegally restored, the occupant of the
premises or the user of the service are required to notify the city that water
service has been illegally restored. Failure on the part of the occupant of the
premises or the user of the service to so inform the city within 24 hours will
make them a party to the illegal reconnection and in violation of this code.
When the city shuts off water for nonpayment, a water meter reading is taken at
the time of shut off. In this case a meter reading in excess of the meter
reading at the time of shut off shall be considered prima facie proof that
water has been used illegally within the premises.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined in
a sum not to exceed $500 for any one offense. The minimum fine for any offense
of this section shall be $100 plus court costs.
(Ord. 1122, passed 12-20-99)
§ 51.089 PAYMENT DATE.
   All payments made on any obligations required by or pursuant to the terms of
this chapter shall be deemed paid on the date the payment is received by the
city, except that all payments received after 3:00 p.m., central time, on a
business day, shall be considered paid on the following business day. A
business day is a day in which the city offices are open for business to the
general public.
(Ord. 1139, passed 8-7-00)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Right of entry for purpose of inspection; indemnification; easements
on private property
   
52.003   State authority permitted access to records
   
52.004   Noninterference with additional requirements
Regulations
   
52.015   Depositing objectionable waste prohibited
   
52.016   Discharge of untreated sewage or other polluted waters to natural
outlets
   
52.017   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
52.018   Owner’s responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
52.019   Tampering with or damaging sewage works
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
52.030   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
52.031   Written permit to be obtained
   
52.032   Inspection and approval of installation
   
52.033   Compliance with state regulatory provisions
   
52.034   Connecting private sewage disposal system to public system
   
52.035   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
Use of Public Sewer
   
52.050   Discharge of storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
52.051   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
52.052   Discharge of certain wastes restricted
   
52.053   Pretreatment, equalization of waste flows
   
52.054   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.055   Preliminary treatment facilities; maintenance
   
52.056   Control manhole
   
52.057   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
52.058   Industrial wastes; special agreement
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.070   Connection permit required; discharges to comply with federal, state
and local standards
   
52.071   Building sewer permits; inspection and connection fees
   
52.072   Costs and expenses of installation and connection; indemnification
   
52.073   Emergency repairs
   
52.074   Repairs by Sewer Department
   
52.075   Separate building sewer provided for every building
   
52.076   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
52.077   Removal of stoppage in waste pipes; replacing broken or old sewer
lines
   
52.078   Building sewer construction and material specifications
Storm Drain System
   
52.090   Composition; maintenance and repair
   
52.091   Use of storm drain system
Wastewater Service Charges
   
52.105   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
52.106   Measurement of flow
   
52.107   Wastewater service rates and charges
   
52.108   Computation of wastewater service charges
   
52.109   Exception for sewer charge
Billings; Revenues
   
52.120   Billing and payment for sewer service
   
52.121   Delinquent, nonpayment of bills and termination
   
52.122   Disposition of revenue; funds
   
52.123   Accounts to be kept; annual audit report
   
52.124   Notice of rates
Scavengers
   
52.135   Definition
   
52.136   Vehicles to be regulated; wagons to be kept clean
   
52.137   Notice to clean vaults
   
52.138   Cleaning vaults; hours of operation
   
52.139   Disposal of night soil
 
   
52.998   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Payment date, see §
51.089
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U. S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Council of the city.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BASIC USER RATE. The assessment levied on all users of the sewer system
based upon metered water consumption.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer that is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of revenue bonds outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as amended.
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.  ( INFILTRATION
does not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to roof leaders; cellar, yard
and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water discharges; drains
from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
waters or drainage.  ( INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from
infiltration.)
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. Any industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day; or
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the city system
receiving the waste; or
      (3)    Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/1). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.0019 of the constituent in 1,000 milliliters of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used in common, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the Federal Act.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect (other than
debt service) necessary to insure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing
basis, conforming to related federal, state and local requirements, and
assuring optimal long term facility management.  (These costs include
depreciation and replacement.)
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city or representatives as
designated by the city.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and
0.20 pounds of suspended solids. The impact on a treatment works is evaluated
as the equivalent of the highest of the three parameters. Impact on a stream is
the higher of the BOD suspended solids parameters.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   PWD. The City Public Works Director, or his or her designee.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary
sewers, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with city funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwater or polluted
industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUN-OFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge, the basic
user rate and debt service charge that is levied on those persons whose wastes
are greater in strength than the concentration values established in §
52.105.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §§
52.105 through
52.108 and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge, the basic user
rate, the debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received and expenses incurred in the operation of the waterworks and/
or sewerage system. These revenues and expenses shall be accounted for so that
water system revenues and expenses shall be recorded in the waterworks account
of the waterworks and sewerage fund and revenue and expenses of the sewerage
system shall be recorded in the sewerage account of the waterworks and sewerage
fund.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.002 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION; INDEMNIFICATION; EASEMENTS
ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The PWD, other duly authorized employees of the city and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The PWD shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries, beyond that point having direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the PWD of the city, the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company known to
the city, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city's employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by the city's employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operations, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as
required in §
52.056.
   (C)   The PWD of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a duly negotiated easement for the observation, measurement, sampling, repair
and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement.
All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
   (D)   Any property owner who refuses to permit the entry of a duly
authorized employee of the city for the purpose of inspecting sanitation sewer
facilities on his or her property shall be subject to a fine as set forth in
the city code and to termination of water service at the location where right
of entry is refused.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.003 STATE AUTHORITY PERMITTED ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representatives shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records
of the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges or
industrial cost recovery for purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any state grant.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.004 NONINTERFERENCE WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.016 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL
OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet, watercourse or
storm sewer within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.017 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.018 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the city is hereby
required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect such facilities with a building sewer directly with the proper
public sewer in a manner approved by the PWD within 90 days after date of the
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 200 feet of
the property line. Failure to comply with the 90 day notice shall, in addition
to being a violation of the city code, result in the start of sewer charges as
if the property was connected by a building sewer to the public sewer system.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.019 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest for the offense of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 52.030 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   In the event a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
of §
52.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter and all other laws of
applicable jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.031 WRITTEN PERMIT TO BE OBTAINED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain any necessary permits including a written permit
signed by the County Health Department. The application for such permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the County Health Department which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are
deemed necessary by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.032 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF INSTALLATION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County Health
Department and according to all applicable laws. They shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify County Health Department when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by County
Health Department.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.033 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATORY PROVISIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and all other applicable laws. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing insufficient subsurface soil absorption
facilities until such time as approval is received from the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.034 CONNECTING PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.018, direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned. The building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge, bottoms perforated as to permit adequate drainage of the
tank and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt compacted and maintained in
a safe condition and closed according to law.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.035 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a lawful and sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWER
§ 52.050 DISCHARGE OF STROM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the PWD. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the PWD to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.051 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create any hazard in the receiving waters of the
sewage treatment plant or to cause the effluent from the treatment works to
violate applicable effluent standards.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes, cinders, sand,
mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.052 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes to any public sewer if it appears
likely in the opinion of the PWD that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, as determined in the NPDES permit received by the city; or otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his
or her opinion as to the acceptability of these waters, the PWD will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other
pertinent factors. The substances prohibited including all limitations and
prohibitions imposed by the NPDES permit of the city are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C).
   (B)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or containing
substances that may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and
150°F (0°C and 65°C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of ¾ horsepower (0.76 hp
metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the PWD.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process to
constitute a hazard to animals or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant. The following limits on the concentration by weight
of various wastes as discharged to the sewer by an industry are hereby
established as follows:
      (1)   The concentration of chromium as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 3.0 mg/l.
      (2)   The concentration of zinc as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 1.0 mg/l.
      (3)   The concentration of copper as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 1.0 mg/l.
      (4)   The concentration of cadmium as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 3.0 mg/l.
      (5)   The concentration of lead as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 1.0 mg/l.
      (6)   The concentration of nickel as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 8.0 mg/l.
      (7)   The concentration of silver as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 1.0 mg/l.
      (8)   The concentration of mercury as discharged to the sewer shall not
exceed 0.0005 mg/l.
      (9)   No waste discharged to city sewer system shall contain detectable
levels of cyanide at any time except as permitted below:
         (a)   Any person desiring to discharge cyanide or cyanogens to the
city sewer system shall apply for and procure approval from the city. The
application shall contain sufficient information on discharge concentrations,
flows and the like to provide adequate data to enable the city and its
representatives to evaluate the discharge and secure required Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency approval.
         (b)   When permitted, total cyanide shall not exceed 10 mg/l, provided
any sample tested shall not release more than two mg/1 of cyanide when tested
at a pH of 4.5 and at a temperature of 150°F for a period of 30 minutes. Such
discharges shall be permitted only when the Agency has determined that no
violation of the effluent criteria of 0.025 mg/1 concentration (alone or in
combination with other sources) will result from such discharge.
         (c)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the PWD as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         (d)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the PWD in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   (G)   Materials that exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residue) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters including the NPDES permit of the city.
   (I)   All exhaust from steam engines and all blow offs from steam boilers
shall be first connected with a proper basin and shall not be allowed to
connect directly with the public sewers without special permission from the
approving authority.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.053 PRETREATMENT, EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.052, and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment
provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978 and any amendments thereto, and which in
the judgment of the PWD may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the PWD may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes and require the violator to cease and desist
discharging said materials into the sewer system immediately.
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge and
also require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by the existing sewer charges.
   (B)   If the PWD permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to
review and approval of the PWD and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.054 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the PWD, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the PWD and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. This section shall apply to all
current and future establishments with cooking facilities that serve the
public.
   (B)   All such establishments shall provide proof of an annual inspection of
all interceptors by a certified plumber that the interceptor(s) or traps are
clean and in proper working order so as to eliminate excessive amounts of
grease, oil and sand from entering the public sewer system.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.055 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for,
the owner, at his or her expense, shall maintain the facilities, at his or her
expense, and shall maintain them continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.056 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each new industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when
required by the PWD, the owner of any property serviced by an existing building
sewer carrying industrial or commercial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the PWD. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained
by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.057 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (C)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
out-falls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all out-falls, whereas pH’s are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   (D)   Any person discharging wastes having concentrations greater than the
normal concentrations as set forth herein shall, upon notification by the
approving authority, install a composite sample with a compatible pacing
(metering) device for monitoring said substances. The pacing and sampling
devices shall be of a type approved by the PWD. All testing and measuring
procedures for the analysis of pollutants shall be in conformance with 40 CFR
136.
   (E)   The cost of all required measurements, tests and analyses shall be
borne by the contributor.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.058 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore in accordance with §§
52.105 through
52.108 of this chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are
in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge systems.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.070 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED; DISCHARGES TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL, STATE
AND LOCAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any connection with the city sanitary or
storm system without having first obtained a permit and paid the fee provided
in separate ordinance. Application for such permits shall be made to the city
and shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of the connection,
the premises to be served, the specifications of the pipe to be connected and
of the drain from the house to the sewer line. No permit shall be issued unless
found that the ordinances of the city would be complied with in the making of
such connection.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards of any applicable
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.071 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; INSPECTION AND CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits: for
residential services, for commercial, institutional/governmental services and
for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by
the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
PWD.
   (B)   An inspection fee shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the
application is filed. This inspection fee is in addition to the sewer
connection permit fee and also in addition to user charge fees, the provisions
of which are detailed in this chapter. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (C)   An additional fee will be charged for all inspections required other
than during the regular 40-hour workweek.
   (D)   Each excavation for any of the above purposes shall require a separate
permit.
   (E)   The shall be a connection permit fee within the corporate limits of
the city plus an additional fee where a sewer lift station is involved for
servicing the sewer main.
   (F)   The industrial service connection fee shall be determined by the city
at the time the application is filed. The city shall base the fee with regard
to the complexity of the connection. The industry, as a condition of permit,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (G)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sanitary sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately handle the
additional anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.072 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION; INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.073 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   The city may, in case of emergency, repair or order the repair of any sewer
lateral or sewer pipe from the city sewer main to the premises served thereby,
and if it does so, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the city by
the owner of the premises served, which cost shall be treated and collected in
the same manner and with the same remedies as for collection of charges for
sewer services.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.074 REPAIRS BY SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Any maintenance or repair work performed by the Sewer Department of
the city on any sanitary sewer lateral shall be paid for by the owner or the
occupant (both of whom shall be liable for the cost thereof) of the property
served by such lateral at the currently going hourly rate published by the
city.
   (B)   The city shall only be responsible for costs and expenses for
maintenance and repair of any sewer line or sewer main or sewer lateral to the
property line of the owner or user. The city shall not be responsible for any
costs or expenses for maintenance or repairs of a sewer lines or sewer laterals
located on the property owned by the user or the owner.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1138, passed 8-7-00)
§ 52.075 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVIDED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.076 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Plumbing Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.077 REMOVAL OF STOPPAGE IN WASTE PIPES; REPLACING BROKEN OR OLD SEWER
LINES.
   No connection permit will be required for the removal of stoppage in waste
pipes or for replacing broken or old sewer lines, provided such sewer lines
conform to the regulations contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.078 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   The methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
   (A)   (1)    Each connection shall be made at the "Y" designated for that
property. Only where the designated "Y" is not located within three feet of the
point of measurements furnished by the Superintendent will a tap-in connection
be allowed.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials and the
Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and the latest
edition of Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Plumbing Inspector before installation.
      (3)   The person making the connection shall make an opening in the main
sewer similar to the interior diameter of the "Y" branch and then properly
cement and attach a saddle in place or use a universal rubber saddle with
stainless steel bands. The saddle shall have a suitable curvature to conform to
the outside diameter of the public sewer. Either option must be approved by the
PWD on the sewer application prior to installation.
   (B)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 and the latest edition of the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall
apply.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (D)   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (E)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the PWD when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
Each and every part of a sewer connection shall be inspected and approved by
the PWD or his or her representative before being concealed or backfilled.
   (F)   Any person filling in an excavation without having first received the
written approval of the PWD as provided in this subchapter shall, in addition
to suffering the fine herein imposed, expose the sewer for inspection by the
PWD at no cost to the city. In any case where the PWD finds the work on any
sewer not done in a satisfactory manner as herein provided, he or she shall
serve written notice on the person to whom the permit is issued, stating
wherein such work is deficient and ordering said person to remedy such defect
within 24 hours. In the event such person fails to comply therewith, the PWD
shall cause such defect to be corrected at the expense of the person to whom
the permit was issued. The inspection fee shall be paid to the City Clerk as a
fee for the performance of the PWD, and it shall be the duty of the PWD to
inspect any sewer connection or sewer pipe within the city. It shall also be
the duty of said PWD to inform the approving authority of any violation of this
section and to assist in the prosecution of offenders.
   (G)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall comply with the
provisions of this code relating to excavations in streets and shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard, streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
STORM DRAIN SYSTEM
§ 52.090 COMPOSITION; MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   The term storm drain system shall be considered to be composed of catch
basins, storm drains, culverts and open ditches which are intended to receive
storm water, surface water and street wash and which are under the care and
control of the city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.091 USE OF STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following described
waste materials into any storm drain system:
      (1)   Liquid waste materials that contain more than 100 parts of oil or
grease per million parts, determined by weight.
      (2)   Liquid waste material in which the suspended solids exceed 250
milligrams per liter.
      (3)   Any petroleum product or other product which by reason of its
nature or quality may cause a fire or explosion or in any way be injurious to
persons or to the sewage system.
      (4)   Any industrial waste with a pH of less than 5.5 or greater than
9.0.
      (5)   Any industrial waste with a five-day biochemical oxygen demand of
more than 200 milligrams per liter.
      (6)   Any industrial waste containing any toxic or poisonous substance in
a sufficient quantity to interfere with the biologic processes used in the
sewage treatment process or that will pass through the sewage treatment plant
and harm persons or aquatic life in the receiving stream.
      (7)   Any nonshredded garbage, scraps or vegetables.
      (8)   Any straw, ashes, cinders, shavings, butchers' offal, rags,
feathers or any other material capable of causing obstructions, nuisance or
injury to or interference with the sewerage system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be
connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic
tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging polluting
substances to any storm water drain in the city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 52.105 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for the service supplied by
the wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge
established to pay administrative expenses of billing, collection, insurance
and such other expenses classified by the city as fixed expenses in the
operation and maintenance of the system; a basic user rate (OM&R) to pay all
remaining expenses after administrative expenses of the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the system classified by the city as variable
expense; a debt service charge to pay 100% of the amount required annually for
interest and principal on outstanding wastewater revenue bonds and/or loans of
the city including bond and depreciation reserve requirements and a surcharge,
if applicable.
   (A)   The basic user charge shall be determined by dividing the total of
fixed expenses as classified and determined by the city including
administrative salaries, office expense, insurance and other administrative
expense by the number of users connected to the system and subject to billing
for service. The annual cost so determined as a fixed expense per use shall be
designated as the basic user charge and shall be pro-rated over a 12-month or
quarterly period for the purpose of billing as the basic user charge. Each bill
shall be subject to the basic user charge.
   (B)   (1) The basic user rate (OM&R) shall be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for the purpose of paying
variable costs associated with the operation, maintenance and replacement of
the system. The basic user rate shall be determined by dividing the total of
annual operation, maintenance and replacement expense by the total number 1000
gallons billed for sewer service in the preceding year. This calculation shall
produce a unit rate per 1000 gallons for sewer service supplied which shall be
billed as the basic user rate.
      (2)   (a)   The basic user rate (OM&R) will be applicable for average and
below average strength sewage. Average strength sewage is determined to have
the following characteristics:
            1.   A five-day 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 200 mg/l.
            2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
         (b)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs including
replacement and shall be computed as described above.
   (C)   The debt service charge shall consist of the total of a fixed rate
(the debt service charge) and a variable rate (the debt service rate). The debt
or fixed service charge shall be applied monthly to each user connected into
the sewerage system of the city. The debt service rate shall be determined by
dividing an amount equal to 100% of annual principal and interest on revenue
bonds and loans applicable to the sewer system plus 25% coverage for bond and
loan reserves as shall be established from time to time by ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   (1)   A surcharge, in addition to the above mentioned, will be levied
upon all users whose discharges exceed the average concentrations for BOD (200
mg/1) and SS (250 mg/1). The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes that exceed the parameters
outlined above. Section
52.107 specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge. The unit rate of BOD and
SS surcharge calculations shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Proportion the estimated annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including the equipment replacement fund,
to the major plant categories.
         (b)   Proportion the costs of the major plant categories to BOD and
SS.
         (c)   Estimate pounds of BOD and pounds of SS.
         (d)   Compute the unit costs per pound of BOD and SS.
      (2)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually and shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in debt service
or a change in operation and maintenance costs, including replacement costs,
but shall not be considered as part of other wastewater revenues for the
calculation of other wastewater rates.
      (3)   The users of wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges that are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.106 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing user charges and surcharges shall be
metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of 1000 gallons.
   (A)   If any person procures any part or all of his water from sources other
than the public water works system, and discharges all or part of such water in
the public sewers, the person shall, within 90 days of the effective date of
this section, install and maintain, at his expense, a water meter of a type
approved by the PWD for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from such other sources. A charge for sewer only service shall be based on the
volume of water obtained from such other sources in the same manner as water
from the city waterworks system. This requirement shall apply to any person
that is receiving only sewer service and not water service from the city. The
PWD shall have the option to terminate or shut off the sewer service of any
person that does not comply with the terms of this provision.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the PWD if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the PWD.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1138, passed 8-7-00)
§ 52.107 WASTEWATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   Rates and charges for the use of and service supplied by the sewerage system
of the city shall be set by ordinance and reviewed at least annually and shall
be:
   (A)   Basic user charge.
   (B)   Basic user rate (OM&R).
   (C)   Debt service charge.
   (D)   A debt service rate for locations not within the city limits.
   (E)   Surcharge rates and charges.
      (1)   The rate of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as set by ordinance.
      (2)   The surcharge per user shall be computed by the following formula:
   S   =   V (0.6238) (A (BOD5-200) + B (SS-250)
      Where S = Amount of surcharge in dollars
   V   =   Wastewater volume in 100 cubic feet per billing period
   (0.6238)   =   Unit weight of water
   A   =   Unit charge for BOD5 per pound
   BOD5   =   5 day biochemical oxygen demand, milligrams per liter
   200   =   Allowable average BOD5 concentration, milligrams per liter
   B   =   Unit charge for SS per pound
   SS   =   Suspended solids, per pound
   250   =   Cable average SS concentration, milligrams per liter
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.108 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Following is the procedure for calculating wastewater service charges
for users located within the corporate limits:
      (1)   Metered users. The wastewater service charge for metered users
shall be computed using the following formula:
   WC   =   B + V (OM&R) + V (DSR) + S
      Where WC = Amount of wastewater service charge in dollars per billing
period.
   B   =   Basic user charge for the payment of billing and administrative
expense (fixed expense)
   V   =   Wastewater volume in 1000 gallons per billing period to the lowest
increment of 1000 gallons.
   OM&R   =   Basic user rate for variable OM&R costs in dollars per 1000
gallons.
   DSC   =   Debt service charge for the fixed charge applicable to payment of
debt service in dollars per billing period.
   S   =   Amount of wastewater surcharge in dollars as computed by the
surcharge formula.
      (2)   Nonmetered users.
         (a)   Users without water meters of the wastewater facilities within
the corporate limits shall be required to install a metering device within six
months of passage of this chapter. Calculation of an estimated usage shall be
based upon the average usage for a similar household and shall be set by the
City Administrator.
         (b)   Users without water meters of the wastewater facilities located
outside the corporate limits of the city shall be required to install a
metering device within six months of passage of this chapter. Calculations of
estimated usage shall be based upon the average usage for a similar household
and shall be set by the City Administrator. All charges for users outside the
corporate limits of the city shall be twice the charge for users located inside
the corporate limits of the city.
         (c)   Charge for septic waste disposal. The operator of the wastewater
treatment plant (WWTP) is authorized to accept septic waste from haulers. Each
hauler will be charged per 1,000 gallons or for any part of 1,000 gallons. Each
hauler will certify the origin of the waste and provide a billing address. The
WWTP operator will forward to the City Clerk an invoice so that the Clerk may
send out a proper sewer bill to the hauler. Rates are to be determined at least
annually and in all cases at the time when other wastewater rates are set but
may be set more often than other wastewater rates.
      (2)   Multiple unit users. A multiple unit user is defined as any
additional number of family or commercial units located on the same premises or
being served through a single water meter or sewer connection, such as
apartment buildings, more than one commercial unit in the same building or
commercial and residential units located in the same building. In all such
cases, there shall be an additional debt service charge for each additional
unit provided with sewer service and served by the single connection. The
additional debt service charge for each unit shall be added to the bill
computed in the manner as set forth.
   (B)   The sewer rate charges for connections to a wastewater service outside
the corporate limits of the city shall be twice the amount for rates charged
for connections inside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 1-20-99)
§ 52.109 EXCEPTION FOR SEWER CHARGE.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, any residential
user may make application on a form supplied by the City Clerk for a second
water meter for a premises. Such application shall be reviewed by the Public
Works Director. If the application complies with all regulations of the city,
the Public Works Director may approve the application. By making an
application, the applicant is thereby granting the Public Works Director the
right to inspect the water meter and all connections and any other part of the
water supply system deemed necessary by the Public Works Director to insure
compliance with all the applicable regulations of the city and state law, which
inspections may be made at any time before an application is approved or any
time after an application is approved to ensure compliance. An approved
application shall permit the residential user to purchase a water meter from
the city and install the second water meter at the user's sole expense
according to the regulations of the city and approval of Public Works Director.
The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the construction and
installation of the water meter. The water registered by such water meter shall
only be used for purposes outside of any dwelling or structure and only for the
purpose of filling a swimming pool or watering a lawn, shrubs, trees, or other
landscaping. The water meter and water service shall comply with all of the
terms and conditions of any ordinances or rules or regulations of the city with
the exception of those specifically in conflict with this section. The charges
by the city for any water used as indicated by such water meter shall only be
charged for water usage and shall not be charged for any wastewater service
charge, basic user charge, debt service charge, surcharge or any sewer/
wastewater charges of the city. The city reserves the right to repeal this
exception at any time and if this exception is repealed it shall apply to all
users who obtained approval for installation of a second water meter pursuant
to this section and such user shall be required to remove the second water
meter according to the terms of the ordinance repealing this section.
(Ord. 1145, passed 11-7-00)
BILLINGS; REVENUE
§ 52.120 BILLING AND PAYMENT FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   
Chapter 51 contains the procedures for billing and payment for sewer service.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.121 DELINQUENT, NONPAYMENT OF BILLS AND TERMINATION.
   Procedures for delinquent bills and utility termination are specified in
Chapter 51.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.122 DISPOSITION OF REVENUE; FUNDS.
   All revenues and money derived from the operation of the sewerage works
system shall be deposited in the City Combined Fund and all revenues and moneys
derived from the operation of the sewerage system shall be credited to the
sewerage account.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.123 ACCOUNTS TO BE KEPT; ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep or cause to be kept proper books, records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks and sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals he or she shall
cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to
show the receipts and disbursements of the waterworks and sewerage system as
part of the city annual audit.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the separate revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing the total gallons received at the wastewater
plant for the current fiscal year.
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of hundred cubic feet.
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system.
      (5)   Number of nonmetered users.
      (6)   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
   (C)   The annual audit reports shall contain such other financial
information consistent with future guidelines to be promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.124 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be filed
in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the waterworks and sewerage
system of said city on their properties.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
SCAVENGERS
§ 52.135 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SCAVENGER. Every person engaged in the cleaning of privy vaults, cesspools
or sink holes or in the removal of filth, offal or any offensive matter in this
city.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.136 VEHICLES TO BE REGULATED.
   Every vehicle used to cover any night soil, filth, offal or other offensive
matter through the streets of the city shall be provided with a tight box and
shall be so loaded that no portion of night soil, filth, offal or other
offensive matter shall escape or be scattered or have upon the streets or other
public places and, when necessary, to prevent the escape of offensive odors,
such box shall be tightly covered. Any person who shall convey through the
streets, alleys or public places of the city any night soil, filth, offal or
other offensive matter in any vehicle not constructed as herein provided and
specified or who shall scatter, drop, leave or deposit, or cause to be
scattered, left or deposited, any night soil, filth, offal or other offensive
matter upon any alley or public place or ground within the city shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.137 NOTICE TO CLEAN VAULTS.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the County Health Department or the PWD, any
privy vault, cesspool or sink hole is in an offensive condition or in need of
cleaning, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner, agent or occupant of
the premises upon which the same is situated to cleanse the same within a
period named in such notice, and unless the person so notified shall comply
with such notice, it shall be the duty of the county or city to cause the same
to be cleaned and all charges to be placed as a lien on the property. Such
person so failing to comply with such order or notice shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall be construed as exempting any such
person so failing to comply with such notice from payment of the expenses
incurred in the cleaning of such privy vault, cesspool or sink hole.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.138 CLEANING VAULTS; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No scavenger or other person shall remove the contents of any privy vault,
cesspool or sink hole, or any other offensive matter or convey the same through
the streets, alleys or public places within the city at any time outside the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. except in the case of emergencies. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99
§ 52.139 DISPOSAL OF NIGHT SOIL.
   The contents of all privy vaults, cesspools and sink holes and all other
offensive matter shall be conveyed beyond the city limits and disposed of in
such manner as not to become a nuisance to persons residing in the vicinity.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99)
§ 52.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
52.019, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not less than $100, and not more than $750. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1121, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Intent
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Residential refuse and garbage pickup
   
53.05   Required residential recycling
   
53.06   Residential yard waste pickup
   
53.07   Residential bulk brush pickup and Christmas trees
   
53.08   Special events
   
53.09   Rates and rules for solid waste pickup
   
53.10   Large items ans appliance removal
   
53.11   Billing and payments
   
53.12   Fund accounting
   
53.13   Disposal services
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Payment date, see §
51.089
§ 53.01 INTENT.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-19-1 et seq., the city can manage
solid waste or enter into contracts for the management of solid waste. This
chapter will set out rules, regulations and penalties pertaining to the
management of solid waste. Rates for service shall be established by the City
Council from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the citizens of Fulton will
receive a good, safe and sanitary method of removing refuse, recyclables and
yard waste from their home.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK BRUSH. Tree limbs, large shrubbery and similar landscape waste that
cannot be conveniently placed in the yard waste bags.
   CHURCH. A religious oriented nonprofit organization in the corporate limits
of the city, as determined by the city.
   RESIDENTIAL USER.  A Residential User under
Chapter 53 shall be defined in the same manner as a user for service charges
and rates for waste water service under
Chapter 52. By way of example, a single-family dwelling shall be considered one
user and shall be charged one monthly charge as provided in §
53.13 and a duplex shall be considered two users and each user shall pay a
monthly charge as provided in §
53.13.
   SOLID WASTE. Refuse, garbage, yard waste, bulk brush and recyclable
material.
   YARD WASTE. Compostible organic material consisting of dead plants, weeds,
tree or hedge trimmings, grass clippings, and leaves but excluding tree limbs
over four feet in length and 50 pounds in weight. YARD WASTE is further defined
as follows:
      (1)   BULK YARD WASTE. Hard yard waste which exceed the diameter and
length standards set forth in this section.
      (2)   HARD YARD WASTE. Brown stemmed branches and shrub prunings with
large diameter stems or trunks not individually exceeding 48 inches in length
and two inches in diameter. Christmas trees shall not be included in the
definition of HARD YARD WASTE.
      (3)   SOFT YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, leaves, prunings, green stem
shrubs and plant stalks not defined as HARD YARD WASTE.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1223, passed 8-19-03; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 4-16-07)
§ 53.04 RESIDENTIAL REFUSE AND GARBAGE PICKUP.
   (A)   Collection schedule.  Collection of refuse and garbage shall be
performed once each week at each residential dwelling unit and all churches in
the city that are being provided water service from the city. This collection
shall not start before 6:30 a.m. nor continue past 5:00 p.m. Weeks containing
holidays and unforeseen emergencies may require alteration of the schedule.
Collection shall be on the same day of the week for each established collection
district, except for emergencies and holidays. The garbage collection service,
as designated by the city, shall give notice to the public of any changes to
the pickup schedule at least one week in advance of the regularly scheduled day
for pick-up. The city will not collect refuse and garbage at nonresidential
dwelling properties other than churches.
   (B)   Container quantity, type, size and excess containers.
      (1)   A maximum of two containers or three 30-gallon plastic garbage
sacks will be picked up at each residential dwelling unit and church.
Containers up to 32-gallon capacity shall be acceptable as long as each
container does not exceed 50 pounds in weight. Plastic garbage sacks shall be
acceptable as long as each sack is securely closed and each sack does not
exceed 50 pounds in weight.
      (2)   Container construction shall be:
         (a)   Standard, commercially sold, galvanized metal or strong plastic
with handles and tight fitting lid, or
         (b)   Commercially sold plastic bag with a closed top.
      (3)   The garbage collection service will bill the residential dwelling
unit or church for any containers in a weekly pickup exceeding the allowed
number.
   (C)   Boards, plywood and other building materials. Boards, plywood and
other building materials and similar household or church refuse that is
generated by the household or church shall be collected if deposited in
containers or if securely tied in bundles. Bundles shall not exceed five feet
in length, 20 inches in diameter nor 50 pounds in weight.
   (D)   Requirements for placement of containers. All garbage and rubbish
containers or carts, recycling containers or carts and yard waste containers
shall be placed, by each owner or tenant of a household, in an approved
container and in an approved location along the designated right-of-way for
pick up be no earlier than 3:00 p.m. on the day preceding the day in which
collection is scheduled and not later than 6:00 a.m. on the day of collection.
All containers shall be placed in such a manner that they are readily
accessible for collection on the day or days which are scheduled for the area
in which the dwelling or household is located and shall comply with any other
regulations determined by the city. All empty containers shall be removed as
soon as possible, but in no event later than 6:00 a.m. on the day after the day
of the scheduled collection. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
section or this code, any person violating this division (D) shall be fined not
less than $100 for the first offense, not less than $150 for a second offense
and not less than $200 and not more than $750 for a third or subsequent
offense.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1661, passed 10-12-20; Am. Ord. 1713,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 REQUIRED RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING.
   (A)   Each residential dwelling unit and church shall cooperate in the
recycling of refuse. All recyclable material shall be separated from other
garbage and refuse and grouped together and placed for collection. Recyclable
materials will be collected at each and every residential dwelling unit and
church in the city that is being provided water service.
   (B)   Collection shall be performed once each week in which there is not a
city holiday, shall not start before 6:30 a.m. nor extend past 5:00 p.m. and
will be collected on the same day as refuse throughout the city. Unforeseen
emergencies may require alteration of the schedule.
   (C)   All recyclable materials shall be collected at the curb or in the
alley in the same manner as garbage pickup.
   (D)   All recyclable materials shall be prepared for collection and arranged
in the recycling container as may be provided by rules and regulations issued
by the disposal company and approved by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (E)   Ownership of recyclable waste material.
      (1)   After recyclable waste material has been placed in a designated
container for such purpose at a designated recycling collection location for
collection by the city or its authorized agent, the recyclable waste material
shall become the property of the city or its authorized agent.
      (2)   During the 24-hour period commencing at 6:00 p.m. on any day
preceding a day designated for collection of recyclable waste material, no
person, other than the city's authorized agent, shall remove recyclable waste
material from a designated container that has been placed at a designated
recycling collection location. Each collection in violation of this section
from each separate designated recycling collection location during that period
shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the right of an individual
person, organization or other entity to donate, sell or otherwise dispose of
recyclable waste material if such disposal does not violate any applicable
statute, regulation or ordinance.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1223, passed 8-19-03)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.06 RESIDENTIAL YARD WASTE PICKUP.
   (A)   Residential yard waste pickup shall be a service provided to all
residential properties in the city.
   (B)   Soft yard waste shall be collected weekly from April 1 through
November 30 of each year. The City Council by motion shall determine the day of
the week for such weekly collection.
   (C)   Hard yard waste shall be collected on such days and times as shall be
determined by the City Council. All hard yard waste to be collected shall be
tied in bundles not exceeding 48 inches in length and 50 pounds in weight. The
diameter of any individual piece of hard yard waste shall not exceed four
inches.
   (D)   Collection of bulk yard waste shall be determined by the City Council.
   (E)   All yard waste to be collected must be placed on curb side or location
where solid waste is collected before the designated collection day.
   (F)   No refuse, garbage, household refuse or garden products shall be mixed
or included with any yard waste.
   (G)   An additional fee shall be charged to each residential, single-family
dwelling customer along with the solid waste disposal fee and the amount of the
additional fee shall be determined from time to time by action of the City
Council and shall be as set forth in the Schedule of Fees on file and available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 4-16-07; Am. Ord. 1373,
passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 1383, passed 12-1-08)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.07 RESIDENTIAL BULK BRUSH PICKUP AND CHRISTMAS TREES.
   (A)   This is an optional service provided to city residents by the city.
   (B)   Collection of bulk brush shall be performed once per month on the last
Monday. If the last Monday is a city holiday, pick-up shall be the following
day, Tuesday. Pick-up shall not start before 6:30 a.m. and will not extend past
3:30 p.m. and will be collected on the same day throughout the city. Unforeseen
emergencies may require alteration of the schedule.
   (C)   Bulk brush collection will be available from April through November
and for Christmas trees only during the second week of January only.
   (D)   Operation of the optional bulk brush program.
      (1)   Bulk brush will be placed at the same location as garbage pickup.
Bulk brush will not be picked up if the bundle contains any material other than
bulk brush. Failure to comply with this provision will be considered a
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Only tree and bush limbs and branches, sticks and twigs are
acceptable. All brush should be neatly stacked and no longer than 60 inches. No
brush will be picked up if not neatly stacked and within the proper length.
      (3)   No tree stumps larger than 12 inches across will be picked-up. No
limbs or logs larger than six inches across or 18 inches long will be picked
up.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.08 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Any organization having a special event must contact the city to make
special arrangements for garbage disposal or to inform the city of the means
for disposing of garbage during and following the special event. No permit for
a special event will be approved without first having garbage disposal
arrangements.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.09 RATES AND RULES FOR SOLID WASTE PICK-UP.
   (A)   As specified in this chapter for the management of residential solid
waste to include refuse, curbside recycling and bulk brush there is established
a service charge, as set in separate ordinance, the charge of which will be
reviewed annually. Residential dwelling units or churches that exceed the
garbage limit may opt to pay double service charge per month. No one
residential dwelling unit or church may change from a single to a double or a
double to a single service charge more than one time in any 12-month period.
   (B)   All users of residential dwelling unit or church water service within
the city shall be required to pay the service charge whether or not they use
this solid waste pick up service.
   (C)   The above service charge for apartment complexes of two to four units,
duplexes, triplexes and quadplexes shall be assessed for each unit of the
complex. Boarding houses shall be assessed three times the established service
charge.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not receiving solid waste
pick-up service to place any solid waste with the solid waste of a resident who
is receiving such service.
   (E)   The city, or its authorized agent, will render bills for service under
this chapter and determine all rates and charges in connection with this
chapter and collect all money due for service under this chapter.
   (F)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to designate
additional collection agencies that shall be financial institutions located
within the city for the purpose of collecting any rates and charges for the
services provided by this chapter. Unless specified otherwise in this chapter,
no sum shall be paid to any such collection agent designated by the City
Administrator for the services rendered in collecting the rates and charges of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.10 LARGE ITEMS AND APPLIANCE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Large items. Large household items such as bedsprings, couches and
stuffed chairs may be picked up by Moring Disposal. Arrangements must be made,
by the homeowner, with Moring Disposal for pick-up and for payment.
   (B)  Appliance collection program. Residential refuse customers must make
arrangements with Moring Disposal for pick-up and payment for pick-up of
appliances.
   (C)   Tires. Tires can no longer be placed in landfills. Residential refuse
customers should dispose of old tires at the outlet where new tires are
purchased or by making arrangements with Moring disposal for pick-up and
payment for pick-up.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.11 BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Payment for municipal garbage services.
Chapter 51 contains the procedures for billing and payment for this service.
   (B)   Bills. Bills for municipal curb side solid waste pick-up service shall
be sent out on the same cycle as the city water and sewer bills per
Chapter 51.
   (C)   Delinquent, nonpayment of bills and termination. Procedures for
delinquent bills and utility termination are specified in
Chapter 51.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.12 FUND ACCOUNTING.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the solid waste pick-
up shall be placed into a fund separate and apart from private funds and
separate and apart from all other funds of the city. All such moneys, without
any deductions whatever, shall be deposited into the treasury on a daily basis
in a fund separate from all other funds and designated as the Solid Waste Fund,
which shall be considered an enterprise fund.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99)
§ 53.13 DISPOSAL SERVICES.
   The charge to each residence for solid waste disposal services in the city,
which does not include yard waste pick-up, shall be the sum of $15.80 per
residential dwelling unit or church per month.
(Ord. 1554, passed 11-21-16; Am. Ord. 1650, passed 5-18-20)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, unless
specified otherwise in this chapter, be subject to a fine of not less than $100
and not more than $750.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit the right of the city
or the city’s authorized agent to bring a civil action against any person who
violates this chapter, nor shall a conviction for such violation exempt any
person from a civil action brought by the city or an authorized agent of the
city.
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 54: AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD
Section
   
54.01   Authorization to aggregate
   
54.02   Joint aggregation authorized
   
54.03   Opt-out program
   
54.04   Approval of program
   
54.05   Plan of operation and governance
   
54.06   Automatic electric aggregation
§ 54.01 AUTHORIZATION TO AGGREGATE.
   The corporate authorities of the city hereby are authorized to aggregate in
accordance with the terms of the Illinois Power Agency Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act
3855, residential and small commercial retail electrical loads located within
the corporate limits of the city, and for that purpose may solicit bids and
enter into service agreements to facilitate for those loads the sale and
purchase of electricity and related services and equipment.
(Ord. 1426, passed 2-7-11)
§ 54.02 JOINT AGGREGATION AUTHORIZED.
   The corporate authorities of the city are granted the authority to exercise
such authority jointly with any other municipality or county and, in
combination with two or more municipalities or counties, may initiate a process
jointly to authorize aggregation by a majority vote of each particular
municipality or county as required by the Act.
(Ord. 1426, passed 2-7-11)
§ 54.03 OPT-OUT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The aggregation program for the city shall operate as an opt-out
program for residential and small commercial retail customers.
   (B)   As an opt-out program, the corporate authorities of the city shall
fully inform residential and small commercial retail customers in advance that
they have the right to opt-out of the aggregation
program. The disclosure and information provided to the customers shall comply
with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 1426, passed 2-7-11)
§ 54.04 APPROVAL OF PROGRAM.
   The aggregation program shall be approved by a majority of the members of
the corporate authority of the city.
(Ord. 1426, passed 2-7-11)
§ 54.05 PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE.
   The corporate authorities of the city with the assistance from the Illinois
Power Agency shall develop a plan of operation and governance for the
aggregation program and shall conduct such public hearings and provide such
public notice as required under the Act. The load aggregation plan shall
provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers and
equitable treatment of applicable residential customers, shall describe demand
management and energy efficiency services to be provided to each class of
customers and shall meet any requirements established by law concerning
aggregated service offered pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 1426, passed 2-7-11)
§ 54.06 AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC AGGREGATION.
   The electric aggregation shall occur automatically for each person owning,
occupying, controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to be
aggregated in the corporate limits of the city, subject to right to opt-out of
the program as described under this chapter and the Act.
(Ord. 1426, passed 2-7-11)
CHAPTER 55: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES REGULATIONS
Section
   
55.01   Purpose and scope
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
55.04   Dispute resolution
   
55.05   Indemnification
   
55.06   Insurance
§ 55.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 1605, passed 7-23-18)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U. S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and detennine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Ageement
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally
landmarked building, property, site, or historic disfrict by an ordinance
adopted by the city pursuant to a preservation progam that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government Progoam of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Offce is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffc control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
fransceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless sendces provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 1605, passed 7-23-18)
§ 55.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
pemitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-
of-way in any zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that tem is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the
application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless
facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall enter
into a license supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application.
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information, An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written ageement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a pennit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety established by the FCC including
47 C.F.R. 22.970 through 47 C.F.R. 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. 90.672 through 47
C.F.R. 90.675.
         (e)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the, pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider comÉ1ies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the city may propose that
the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. ff an applicant proposes a height
for new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a special use permit or variance in conformance with procedures,
terms and conditions set forth in Chapter 155 entitled Zoning of Code of
Fulton.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division (B)(1)(d) of this section; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-ofway for activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane
closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that
are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local government
as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201), Metra Commuter
Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as
defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-
102), without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless. facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5,
§ 16-108.5(i)).
         (b)   For the purposes of this subsection, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 3-105). Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any
person from any requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or a state-issued
authorization to offer cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any
required permission to install, place, maintain, or operate communications
facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (G)   Annual recurring rate. 
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city
utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 1605, passed 7-23-18)
§ 55.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Whiteside County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 1605, passed 7-23-18)
§ 55.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its
employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that
they may have against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or
special damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 1605, passed 7-23-18)
§ 55.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 1605, passed 7-23-18)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE OPERATION ON CITY STREETS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Illinois Vehicle Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Speed restrictions
   
70.03   Stopping at railroad grade crossing
   
70.04   Tethering draft animals
   
70.05   Snow removal
   
70.06   Piling of snow and ice on streets prohibited
   
70.07   Engine brakes and compression brakes
   
70.08   Electric scooters
   
70.09   Obedience to police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, as amended, is hereby
adopted in its entirety, by reference, as though fully and completely set
forth. Any other section of the city code, in conflict with the Illinois
Vehicle Code, as amended, is hereby declared void and ineffective and is hereby
repealed. Any person, firm or corporation that violates any provision of the
Illinois Vehicle Code adopted by this reference shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a minimum fine of not less than $100 and the maximum fine shall not
exceed $750. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 988, passed 2-1-94; Am. Ord. 1503, passed 5-5-14)
§ 70.02 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or public way at a
rate of speed greater than reasonable and proper, having regard to the traffic
and the use of the way or so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the
property of any person.
   (B)   If the rate of speed through the business district of the city exceeds
20 miles per hour, if the rate of speed through the residential district of the
city exceeds 25 miles per hour or if the rate of speed through the suburban
district exceeds 35 miles per hour such rates of speed shall be prima facie
evidence that the person operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of
speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and
use of the way or so as to endanger life or limb or injure the property of any
person.
   (C)   The fact that the rate of speed is lower than the foregoing limits
shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection, when approaching the crest of a hill, when
approaching and rounding a curve, when driving a winding roadway or when
special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason
of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid collisions with any person or vehicle or on entering a
highway in compliance with the legal requirements and the duty of all persons
to use due care.
(‘82 Code, § 10.12.110)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 71, Sch. I
§ 70.03 STOPPING AT RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when the
signal device gives warning of the approach of a train shall stop within 50
feet but not less than ten feet of the nearest rail of the railroad and shall
not proceed until he or she can safely do so.
(‘82 Code, § 10.12.200)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 TETHERING DRAFT ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in any
street without having such animal securely fastened.
(‘82 Code, § 10.12.170)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 SNOW REMOVAL. 
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SNOW DAY. Any day of the year that snow falls to an accumulated amount of
two inches or more.
      SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets and avenues which will be cleared
first to handle emergency vehicles and traffic.
      SNOW PLOWING. The pushing of snow by mechanical means from the center of
the traveled portion of the street to the outside edges of the traveled portion
of the street.
      SNOW REMOVAL. The loading and hauling away of snow from the street right-
of-way.
      STREET CLEANING. The washing, sweeping and loading of dirt and debris
from the street by mechanical or manual means.
(‘82 Code, § 10.28.010)
   (B)   Snow removal. To facilitate the removal of snow, special and temporary
no-parking areas will be established at the direction of the Chief of Police in
coordination with the Street Superintendent by placement of temporary "No
Parking" signs along the street. These signs shall be placed at least two hours
before work is to begin and shall not be enforced for one hour after they are
placed.
(‘82 Code, § 10.28.030)
   (C)   Street cleaning. To facilitate street cleaning, special and temporary
no-parking areas will be established at the direction of the Chief of Police in
coordination with the Street Superintendent by placement of temporary "No
Parking" signs along the street. These signs shall be placed at least two hours
before work is to begin and shall not be enforced for one hour after they are
placed.
(‘82 Code, § 10.28.040)
   (D)   Enforcement. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the special parking restrictions when they are in effect. Any
violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor
more than $50, plus the costs of towing and the costs of storage of any
vehicles removed under this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 10.28.050)
(Ord. 742, passed - -79)
Cross reference:
   Snow emergency routes, see
Ch. 72, Sch. X
§ 70.06 PILING OF SNOW AND ICE ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a street, avenue, alley or highway improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or
shoulder.
      SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for and improved
for the use of pedestrians.
      STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for the
purposes of vehicular travel, whether referred to as a street, alley, avenue or
highway.
   (B)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and/or ice
on or against any fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway, or any other city-
owned property, except that part of a street not defined as a roadway herein.
   (C)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, this
section shall not apply to snow and ice that may be windrowed on public
roadways incident to the cleaning thereof or windrowed on curbs incident to the
cleaning of sidewalks in a business district permitted at the specific
direction of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Ord. 1365, passed 1-21-08)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.07 ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
or cause to be used or operated within the city, any engine brake, compression
brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual or
explosive noise from such vehicle, except in the case of a true emergency to
avoid damage to property or injury to any person.
   (B)   The usage of an engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust
device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in such a manner so as to be
audible at a distance of 300 feet from the motor vehicle shall constitute prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 1164, passed 10-16-01)
§ 70.08 ELECTRIC SCOOTERS.
   (A)   All electric scooters shall be operated and maintained in such a
manner as to comply with all laws of the state and ordinances of the city
governing the operation of motor vehicles, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   No person other than the driver shall operate an electric scooter. No
passenger shall be allowed to ride with a driver on an electric scooter.
   (C)   No electric scooter shall be allowed to travel on the streets, alleys,
or public ways within the city except as provided herein. Electric scooters
shall only be allowed to operate on the sidewalks in the city and shall be
allowed to operate on the bike trail route as described in Schedule V of
Chapter 71. This section shall supersede the definition of motor vehicle and
the restriction prohibiting a motor vehicle to operate on the bike trail route.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, an electric scooter may operate on a
crosswalk in the city if the operator of the electric scooter is 16 years of
age or older and no electric scooter shall be allowed to operate on sidewalks
or crosswalks in the business district or any other location in the city where
the operation of bicycles is prohibited.
   (D)   The operator of an electric scooter shall be required to comply with
all the safety rules and regulations as may be provided by the city for bicycle
operators in the city.
   (E)   No electric scooter shall be operated at a speed greater than 12 miles
per hour at any time or at any location within the city.
   (F)   All operators of electric scooters above the age of 7 and not yet 16
years of age shall be required at all times to properly wear a helmet as
approved by the city.
   (G)   No one not yet the age of eight years shall be allowed to operate an
electric scooter.
   (H)   Any violation of this section shall be subject to the general penalty
provisions set forth in §
70.99.
(Ord. 1213, passed 5-20-03)
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, fireman or school crossing guard invested by
law with the authority to direct, control and regulate traffic. The Chief of
Police may designate a school crossing guard to assist in traffic regulation
while children and adults are crossing the streets in such locations in the
city as the Chief deems appropriate. A designated school crossing guard shall
have the authority to direct, control and regulate traffic according to rules
established by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1489, passed 9-3-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not less than $100, nor exceeding $750. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation found to
be an operator, driver or owner of a vehicle who has violated any section in
this title or in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, adopted by reference, related
to the parking of vehicles, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $750 for each offense, notwithstanding §
10.99. Violations of the parking ordinances evidenced by a parking ticket in a
form established by the Chief of Police shall be punishable by a fine only as
follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars if paid on or before ten days from the date and
time of issuance of the parking ticket.
      (2)   Fifty dollars if paid more than ten days and less than 21 days
after the date and time of issuance of the parking ticket.
      (3)   Seventy-five dollars if paid more than 20 days and less than 31
days after the date and time of issuance of the parking ticket.
      (4)   One hundred dollars if paid more than 30 days after the date and
time of issuance of the parking ticket.
      (5)   If the fine in the amount set forth above shall not have been paid
to the office of the City Clerk or to the Police Department within 60 days from
the date and time of issuance of the parking ticket a criminal complaint shall
be filed in the County Circuit Court and a notice to appear shall be issued to
the person in whose name the offending vehicle is registered notifying that
person to appear before the Circuit Court of the county to answer the charge of
illegal parking. The minimum fine for each offense upon a finding of guilty or
a plea of guilty before the Circuit Court on a charge of illegal parking shall
be $200. Proceedings shall follow as in all other ordinance violations of the
city.
(Ord. 1020, passed 3-8-95; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Two-way streets
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Weight limits
   
V.   Bike trail route
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limit in business district. No vehicle of any kind shall be
operated on any street, avenue, drive or public way of the city within the
limits of the business district at any speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
The business district consists of the following areas.
Street            Location
Tenth Avenue      Between Fifth Street and the Mississippi River
Eleventh Avenue   Between Fifth Street and the Mississippi River
Twelfth Avenue    Between Fifth Street and Third Street
Thirteenth Avenue Between Fifth Street and Third Street
Fourth Street     Between Ninth Avenue and Thirteenth Avenue
Third Street      Between Tenth Avenue and Thirteenth Avenue
Second Street     Between Tenth Avenue and Eleventh Avenue
First Street      Between Tenth Avenue and Eleventh Avenue
 
(‘82 Code, § 10.52.010)
   (B)   Speed limit in residential areas. No vehicle of any kind shall be
operated on any street, avenue, drive or public way within the corporate limits
of the city at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour, except for the
following:
      (1)   Fourth Street. The speed limits on Fourth Street shall be as
follows.
Location                                                    Speed Limit (mph)
From the southerly limits of the city to a point 2700 feet  55
south of Twenty-fourth Avenue
From a point 2700 feet south of Twenty-fourth Avenue to a   45
point 2250 feet south of Twenty-fourth Avenue
From a point 2250 feet south of Twenty-fourth Avenue to the 35
intersection of Fourth Street and Twenty-fourth Avenue
From the intersection of Fourth Street and Twenty-fourth
Avenue to the intersection of Fourth Street and Thirteenth  30
Avenue, at which point the business district speed limit
commences
From the southerly limits of the city to a point 1000 feet  50
south of Twenty-fourth Avenue
From a point 1000 feet south of Twenty-fourth Avenue to     40
Twenty-fourth Avenue
From the intersection of Fourth Street and Twenty-fourth
Avenue to the intersection of Fourth Street and Thirteenth  30
Avenue, at which point the business district speed limits
commences
 
(‘82 Code, §§ 10.52.020 and 10.52.030)
      (2)   Fourteenth Avenue. The speed limits on Fourteenth Avenue shall be
as follows.
 
Location                                                     Speed Limit (mph)
From the intersection of Fourteenth Avenue and Fourth Street
to the intersection of Fourteenth Avenue and Fourteenth      30
Street; except for the school zone
From the intersection of Fourteenth Avenue and Fourteenth    35
Street to Illinois State Highway No. 84
 
('82 Code, § 10.52.040)
      (3)   Tenth Avenue. The speed limits on Tenth Avenue shall be as follows.
 
Location                                                      Speed Limit (mph)
From the intersection of Tenth Avenue and Fifth Street to the
intersection of Tenth Avenue and Fourteenth Street; except    30
for the school zone
From the intersection of Tenth Avenue and Fourteenth Street   40
to Illinois State Highway No. 84
 
('82 Code, § 10.52.050)
      (4)   Cattail Road. The speed limits on Cattail Road shall be as follows:
45 miles per hour from the intersection of Cattail Road and Schaefer Road to
where the Cattail Slough crosses under Cattail Road.
('82 Code, § 10.52.055)
      (5)   The speed limit on 31st Avenue in the city shall be 40 miles per
hour.
   (C)   Speed limit in school zones. No vehicle of any kind shall be operated
on any street, avenue, drive or public way within any designated school zone in
excess of 20 miles per hour. Designated school zones are as follows. These
school zone limits shall be in effect only on school days when children are
present.
Street            Location
Fourteenth Avenue Between Ninth Street and Eleventh Street
Thirteenth Street Between Eleventh Street and Thirteenth Street
Twelfth Avenue    Between Eleventh Street and Thirteenth Street
Twelfth Street    Between Fourteenth Avenue and Twelfth Avenue
Thirteenth Street Between Twelfth Avenue and Eleventh Avenue
Tenth Avenue      Between Ninth Street and Eleventh Street
Tenth Street      Between Ninth Avenue and Seventh Avenue
Eighth Avenue     Between Tenth Street and Twelfth Street
Seventh Avenue    Between Tenth Street and Fourteenth Street
Twelfth Street    Between Eighth Avenue and Third Avenue
 
('82 Code, § 10.52.060)
   (D)   Speed limit in alleys. No vehicle of any kind shall be operated in any
alley within the corporate limits of the city at a rate of speed in excess of
15 miles per hour.
('82 Code, § 10.52.070)
   (E)   Authority to enforce speed and traffic control statutes. The duly
authorized members of the Police Department are empowered to enforce all
statutory traffic control and speed restrictions as authorized by statutes of
the state not in conflict herewith.
('82 Code, § 10.52.080)
   (F)   Penalty.  
      (1)   The minimum fine for any first violation of this schedule shall be
$25 plus court costs.
      (2)   All violations after the first violation shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions as provided for subsequent violations of any city
ordinances or the applicable state statutory fine and penalty provision for
subsequent violations, whichever governmental control fine and penalty
provision is greater.
('82 Code, § 10.52.090)
(Ord. 763, passed - -81; Ord. 821, passed - -84; Am. Ord. 890, passed 10-4-88;
Am. Ord. 1232, passed 1-5-04)
SCHEDULE II. TWO-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Two-way streets. The following are designated two-way streets, all in
the city of Fulton.
 
Street        Location               Direction of Traffic Parking
              Commencing at Tenth                         East side-parallel;
Fourth Street Avenue and ending at   North and south      west side-angle
              Thirteenth Avenue
              Commencing at                               East side only-
Fifth Street  Fourteenth Avenue and  North and south      parallel
              ending at Tenth Avenue
Second Street Commencing at Eleventh North and south      ­
              Avenue to Tenth Avenue
 
   (B)   Sign erection. The two-way streets designated in division (A) of this
section shall be posted and designated with signs bearing the words “Two-Way”
with an arrow pointing in the directions which the traffic is to travel. The
signs shall be erected at the intersections of Tenth Avenue and Fourth Street,
Eleventh Avenue and Fourth Street, Twelfth Avenue and Fourth Street, Thirteenth
Avenue and Fourth Street, Fourteenth Avenue and Fifth Street, Thirteenth Avenue
and Fifth Street, Twelfth Avenue and Fifth street, Eleventh Avenue and Fifth
Street and Tenth Avenue and Fifth Street, all in the city of Fulton, and shall
be located so as to be seen by drivers of vehicles approaching form the east,
west, north or south of such streets. The size of the letters on such sign
shall not be less than four inches in height.
   (C)   Semi-truck traffic. Fourth Street, commencing at Tenth Avenue and
ending at Thirteenth Avenue, all in the city of Fulton, shall be posted and
designated with signs bearing the words “NO SEMI-TRUCK TRAFFIC” and with signs
bearing arrows showing directions to the alternate route for semi-truck
traffic. Such signs shall be erected at the intersections of Tenth Avenue and
Fourth Street, Eleventh Avenue and Fourth Street, Twelfth Avenue and Fourth
Street and Thirteenth Avenue and Fourth Street, all in the city of Fulton. Such
signs shall be located so as to be seen by drivers of semi-trucks approaching
from the east, west, north or south of such streets. The size of the letters on
such signs shall conform to standard traffic sign marking but not be less than
four inches in height.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this schedule shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense.
(Ord. 592, passed - -66; Ord. 754, passed - -82; Am. Ord. 1105, passed 8-4-99;
Am. Ord. 1108, passed 9-7-99)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Vehicle defined. The word “vehicle” when used in this chapter shall
mean every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street or highway.
(‘82 Code, § 10.20.010)
   (B)   Stop sign specifications.
      (1)   Every sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than six
inches in height, except at intersections where flashing light signals are
used, in which case the letters, if used, shall be not less than four inches in
height.
      (2)   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there
is no crosswalk, then as close as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway.
(‘82 Code, § 10.20.020)
   (C)   Driver regulations. Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
sign, but if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(‘82 Code, § 10.20.030)
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following intersections of streets or highways
in the city are designated as “stop intersections” and shall have erected signs
bearing the word “Stop” at one or more entrances to the intersections as listed
hereinafter opposite the stop intersection designated.
Intersection Entrance
Intersection                            Entrance
Avenue A and Fourth Street              East
First Avenue and Sixth Street           East and west
First Avenue and Sixth Street           North and south
First Avenue and Twelfth Street         West
Second Avenue and Twelfth Street        East and west
Second Avenue and Seventh Street        North and south
Second Avenue and Tenth Street          West
Second Avenue and Eleventh Street       East
Third Avenue and Fourth Street          East
Third Avenue and Ninth Street           East
Third Avenue and Twelfth Street         East and west
Fourth Avenue and Twelfth Street        East
Sixth Avenue at Fourth Street           Northeast corner
Seventh Avenue at Fourth Street         Northeast corner
Seventh Avenue and Ninth Street         East and west
Seventh Avenue at Tenth Street          Northeast and southwest corner
Seventh Avenue and Twelfth Street       East and west
Eighth Avenue and Fourth Street         East and west
Eighth Avenue and Ninth Street          East and west
Eighth Avenue and Tenth Street          Northeast and southwest corner
Eighth Avenue and Eleventh Street       North (southeast corner)
Eighth Avenue and Twelfth Avenue        East and west
Eighth Avenue and Fifteenth Street      South (northwest corner)
Ninth Avenue and First Street           East
Ninth Avenue and Fourth Street          East and west
Ninth Avenue and Fifth Street           North and south
Ninth Avenue and Ninth Street           East and west
Ninth Avenue and Twelfth Street         East and west
Tenth Avenue and First Street           South
Tenth Avenue and Second Street          North and south
Tenth Avenue and Third Street           South and north
Tenth Avenue and Fourth Street          Northwest, southwest and northeast
                                        corner
Tenth Avenue and Fourth Street          East and west onto Tenth Avenue
Tenth Avenue and Fifth Street           North and south
Tenth Avenue and Sixth Street           North and south
Tenth Avenue and Seventh Street         North and south
Tenth Avenue and Eighth Street          North and south
Tenth Avenue and Ninth Street           North and south
Tenth Avenue and Tenth Street           North and south
Tenth Avenue and Eleventh Street        North and south
Tenth Avenue and Twelfth Street         North and south
Tenth Avenue and Thirteenth Street      North and south
Tenth Avenue and Fourteenth Street      North and south
Tenth Avenue and Tenth Street           East and west when flasher light
                                        flashes red
Eleventh Avenue at Third Street         Northeast and southwest corner
Eleventh Avenue and Fourth Street       East and west
Eleventh Avenue at Fourth Street        North and south entrance
Eleventh Avenue and Fifth Street        East and west
Eleventh Avenue and Ninth Street        North and south
Eleventh Avenue and Twelfth Street      North and south
Eleventh Avenue and Thirteenth Street   West
Eleventh Avenue and Fourteenth Street   East and west
Twelfth Avenue and Fourth Street        East and west
Twelfth Avenue at Fourth Street         North and south entrance
Twelfth Avenue and Fifth Street         East and west
Twelfth Avenue and Ninth Street         East and west
Twelfth Avenue and Eleventh Street      East and west
Twelfth Avenue and Twelfth Street       East and west
Thirteenth Avenue at Third Street       Northeast corner
Thirteenth Avenue and Fourth Street     East and west
Thirteenth Avenue and Fifth Street      East and west
Thirteenth Avenue and Ninth Street      East and west
Thirteenth Avenue and Twelfth Street    Each entrance
Fourteenth Avenue at Third Street       Northeast
Fourteenth Avenue and Fourth Street     East and west
Fourteenth Avenue and Fifth Street      East and west
Fourteenth Avenue and Ninth Street      East and west
Fourteenth Avenue and Twelfth Street    East and west
Fifteenth Avenue and Fourth Street      West and east
Fifteenth Avenue and Fifth Street       North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Sixth Street       North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Seventh Street     North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Eighth Street      North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Ninth Street       North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Tenth Street       North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Eleventh Street    North and south
Fifteenth Avenue and Thirteenth Street  East and north
Sixteenth Avenue at Fourth Street       Northeast and southwest corner
Sixteenth Avenue and Sixth Street       East and west
Sixteenth Avenue and Eighth Street      East and west
Sixteenth Avenue and Tenth Street       North and south
Sixteenth Avenue and Eleventh Street    North and south
Sixteenth Avenue and Twelfth Street     North and south
Sixteenth Avenue and Thirteenth Street  North and south
Seventeenth Avenue at Fourth Street     Northeast corner
Nineteenth Avenue and Fourth Street     East
Nineteenth Avenue and Sixth Street      North and south
Nineteenth Avenue and Eighth Street     North and south
Twentieth Avenue at Fourth Street       Northeast corner
Twentieth Avenue and Ninth Street       East (southwest corner)
Twenty-first Avenue at Fourth Street    Northeast corner
Twenty-second Avenue at Fourth Street   Northeast corner
Twenty-second Avenue and Ninth Street   West (northeast corner)
Twenty-fourth Avenue at Fourth Street   Northeast
Second Street at Ninth Avenue           Northwest and southeast corner
Third Street at Ninth Avenue            Northwest and southeast
Fifth Street at Eighth Avenue           Northwest and southeast
Sixth Street at Third Avenue            Northwest and southeast
Sixth Street at Ninth Avenue            Northwest and southeast
Fifth Street at Third Avenue            Northwest corner
Seventh Street at Third Avenue          Northwest corner
Seventh Street and Eleventh Avenue      North and south
Seventh Street and Twelfth Avenue       North and south
Eighth Street at Third Avenue           Northwest corner
Eighth Street at Thirteenth Avenue      South and north entrance
Eighth Street at Twelfth Avenue         South and north entrance
Ninth Street at Third Avenue            Northwest and southeast corner
Ninth Street at Seventh Avenue          North and south entrance
Ninth Street at Sixteenth Avenue        Northwest and southeast corner
Tenth Street and First Avenue           East and west
Tenth Street at Third Avenue            Northwest and southeast corner
Tenth Street and Sixth Avenue           West (northeast corner)
Tenth Street at Seventh Avenue          North and south entrance
Tenth Avenue at Ninth Street            South and north entrance
Tenth Avenue at Ninth Street            East and west entrance
Tenth Street at Thirteenth Avenue       South and north entrance
Tenth Street at Twelfth Avenue          East and west entrance
Tenth Street at Eleventh Avenue         South and north entrance
Tenth Street at Eleventh Avenue         East and west entrance
Eleventh Street and First Avenue        North and south
Eleventh Street at Third Avenue         Northwest and southeast
Eleventh Street at Thirteenth Avenue    South and north entrance
Twelfth Street                          In front of River Bend Middle School
Twelfth Street and Sixth Avenue         East (southwest corner)
Fourteenth Street and Seventh Avenue
(northeast corner) for westbound        West
traffic
Fourteenth Street at Sixteenth Avenue   Northwest corner
Fifteenth Street at Eighth Avenue       Southeast corner
Sixteenth Street at Eighth Avenue       Southeast corner
Ninth Avenue and Sixteenth Street       South
On the westerly line of the improved
highway running from Fifteenth Avenue   Easterly over Sixteenth Avenue onto the
through Block 16, Range 1, where the    improved highway
highway intersects with Sixteenth
Avenue
Thirteenth Street and Eleventh Avenue   Northeast corner for west bound traffic
Valley View at North Tenth Street,
allowing North Tenth Street the right-  Both directions
of-way
Valley View stops for North Twelfth
Street, allowing North Twelfth Street   —
the right-of-way
Baker Street stops at Valley View
Drive, allowing Valley View Drive the   —
right-of-way
Maple Lane stops at North Tenth Street,
allowing North Tenth Street the right-  —
of-way
Fowler Road and Baker Street stop at
North Twelfth Street, allowing North    —
Twelfth Street the right-of-way
Fowler Road and Eighth Street           East and west
First Avenue stops for Twelfth Street   Westbound on First Avenue
 
(‘82 Code, § 10.20.040)
(Ord. 604, passed - -67; Am. Ord. 982, passed 10-5-93; Ord. 1004, passed - -94;
Am. Ord. 1068, passed 3-4-97; Am. Ord. 1212, passed 5-20-03; Am. Ord. 1240,
passed 6-21-04; Am. Ord. 1295, passed 11-7-05; Am. Ord. 1298, passed 12-5-05;
Am. Ord. 1359, passed 11-19-07; Am. Ord. 1407, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 1437,
passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 1461, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 1462, passed 9-4-12;
Am. Ord. 1675, passed 4-12-21; Am. Ord. 1731, passed 10-9-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   The maximum weight limit of 80,000 pounds is established for:
Street               Location
Fourth Street        From U.S. Route 30 to Eighth Avenue
Twenty-second Avenue From State Route 84 to Ninth Street
Ninth Street         From Twenty-second Avenue to Nineteenth Avenue
Third Street         From Sixteenth Avenue to Eighth Avenue
Eighth Avenue        From Third Street to Fourth Street
Eleventh Avenue      From First Street to Fourth Street
Thirty-first Avenue  Between State Route 84 and Fourth Street, a Class II Truck
                     Route
 
(Ord. 906, passed 8-18-89; Am. Ord. 1077, passed 10-7-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V. BIKE TRAIL ROUTE.
   (A)   General provisions. The following sections of the bicycle trail in the
city, owned and maintained by the city, are excluded from access and use by
equestrian animals, horse drawn vehicles of any kind, and motor vehicles as
defined in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code:
      (1)   On the trail from the southern city limits located on the west side
of Fourth Street north until its connection with the Fulton Flood Control
District's levee.
      (2)   On the trail from Tenth Avenue north to the city limits on the west
side of State Route 84.
   (B)   Stop sign specifications.
      (1)   Every sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than six
inches in height, except if in the option of the Chief of Police, a small sign
is appropriate in which case the letters shall be not less than four inches in
height.
      (2)   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
   (C)   Operator regulations. Every driver or operator of a bicycle, as that
term may be defined in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, approaching a stop sign
shall stop before entering the cross walk on the near side of the intersection,
or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
sign, but if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following intersections of streets or highways
in the city with the bike trail are designated as “stop intersections” and
shall have erected signs bearing the word “Stop” at one or more entrances to
the intersections as listed hereinafter opposite the stop intersection
designated.
Intersection Entrance
Intersection                                                Entrance
Bike trail and Schafer Road                                 South and north
Bike trail and 10th Avenue                                  South and north
Bike trail and 14th Avenue                                  South and north
Bike trail and 14th Avenue and 14th Street                  South
Bike trail and 16th Avenue                                  North
Bike trail and 22nd Avenue                                  South and north
Bike trail @Merema Bros. entrance from Route 84             South and north
Bike trail and 31st Avenue                                  South and north
Bike trail and 4th Street at the (WB) ramp to U.S. Route 30 South and north
Bike trail and 4th Street at the U.S. 30 overpass           South
Bike trail and 4th Street at Agri-Industries                South and north
Bike trail and 4th Street and 24th Avenue                   South and north
Bike trail and 4th Street at 22nd Avenue                    South and north
 
(Ord. 969, passed 5-4-93; Am. Ord. 1416, passed 8-16-10)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Two-hour parking limitation
   
II.   Morning parking prohibition
   
III.   Parking prohibited on specific streets
   
IV.   Restricted parking areas
   
V.   Resident parking area
   
VI.   Persons with disabilities parking
   
VII.   Restrictions on road tractors, truck tractors and semitrailers
   
VIII.   School bus loading zones
   
IX.   Parking in improvement area restricted
   
X.   Calendar parking and snow emergency routes
   
XI.   General parking restrictions
   
XII.   Definitions
   
XIII.   Penalty
SCHEDULE I. TWO-HOUR PARKING LIMITATION.
   (A)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of each day of the week
excepting Sunday, no vehicle shall be parked continuously in one parking space
for more than two hours on any portion of the following named streets and
avenues of the city:
      (1)   On Fourth Street between Ninth Avenue and Thirteenth Avenue.
      (2)   On Eleventh Avenue between Third Street and Fifth Street.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
schedule shall be fined not less than $25 per each offense.
(‘82 Code, § 10.24.060) (Ord. 516, passed - -60; Ord. 777, passed - -82; Am.
Ord. 1368, passed 4-7-08)
SCHEDULE II. MORNING PARKING PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No vehicles shall be parked on Fourth Street between Tenth Avenue and
Thirteenth Avenue and on Tenth Avenue between Third Street and Fourth Street
and on Eleventh Avenue between Third Street and Fifth Street between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provision of this
section shall be fined not less than $25 and no more than $750 for each
offense.
(‘82 Code, § 10.24.070) (Ord. 516, passed - -60; Ord. 778, passed - -82; Ord.
1251, passed 8-16-04; Am. Ord. 1368, passed 4-7-08)
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PROHIBITED ON SPECIFIC STREETS.
   (A)   Twelfth Street. Parking is banned on the east side of Twelfth Street
between Tenth Avenue and Eleventh Avenue. (‘82 Code, § 10.24.080)
   (B)   Ninth Street. Parking is banned on both sides of Ninth Street from
Tenth Avenue to Fourteenth Avenue. (‘82 Code, § 10.24.090)
   (C)   Fifteenth Avenue. Parking is prohibited on the south side of Fifteenth
Avenue from Fourth Street to Fourteenth Street. (‘82 Code, § 10.24.100)
   (D)   Eleventh Avenue. There shall be no parking on the north side of
Eleventh Avenue from Fourth Street east for 90 feet in the city. (‘82 Code, §
10.24.110)
   (E)   Fourteenth Avenue. Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be
permitted to park on either side of Fourteenth Avenue (marked Illinois Route
136) between Fourth Street and Fourteenth Street within the corporate limits of
the city. Parking in this area shall be parallel parking only, diagonal parking
being expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall be executed that the
wheels of the vehicles nearest the cub shall not be farther away from the curb
than 12 inches. (‘82 Code, § 10.24.120)
   (F)   Tenth Avenue. Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be
prohibited from parking along either side of Tenth Avenue between Fifth Street
and Ninth Street and between Twelfth Street and Illinois Highway 84 on the
roadway only. Parking in the other areas shall be parallel parking only,
diagonal parking being hereby expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall
be so executed that the wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb shall not be
farther away from the curb than 12 inches. Parking will not be permitted within
the limits of the intersections of First Street and Ninth Avenue and First
Street and Tenth Avenue as determined by the state from intersection studies.
(‘82 Code, § 10.24.130)
   (G)   Tenth Street. The portion of the east side of the 1300 block of Tenth
Street between 73 feet and 97 feet north of the northeast corner of the
intersection of Tenth Street and Fourteenth Avenue shall henceforth be a no
parking area, and signs shall be erected bearing said designation. (‘82 Code, §
10.24.140)
   (H)   Seventh Avenue. The portion of Seventh Avenue between Thirteenth
Street and Fourteenth Street in the city, and between the entrance and exit
driveway of the Fulton Elementary School, on the north side only, shall
henceforth be a no parking, standing or stopping area and signs shall be
erected bearing said designation. (‘82 Code, § 1.24.150)
   (I)   Thirteenth Street. Parking shall be prohibited on the east side of
Thirteenth Street from Eleventh Avenue to Twelfth Avenue.
   (J)   Seventeenth Street. Parking is hereby prohibited on both sides of
Seventeenth Street from the lift station of the Fulton Public Works Department
north to its intersection with Illinois Route 84.
   (K)   Twelfth Avenue. Parking is hereby prohibited on the north side of
Twelfth Avenue between its intersection with Fourth Street to its intersection
with Twelfth Street. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, parking
shall be permitted during any activity at the Immaculate Conception Church
building on the north side of Twelfth Avenue from its intersection with Sixth
Street to its intersection with Ninth Street.
   (L)   Seventh Avenue. No parking, standing or stopping from 7:30 a.m. to 3:
30 p.m. on school days - in the 1300 block of Seventh Avenue on the south side
only.
   (M) Thirteenth Street. No parking, standing or stopping from 7:30 a.m. to 3:
30 p.m. on school days - on Thirteenth Street in the 700 block of Thirteenth
Street on both sides.
   (N)   N. Twelfth Street. Parking is hereby prohibited on the east side of
Twelfth Street along that part thereof designated by a yellow painted curb and
between that part thereof designated by no parking signs.
   (O)   Eleventh Avenue. Parking is hereby prohibited on the north side of
Eleventh Avenue between its intersection with Fifth Street to its intersection
with Seventh Street, and between its intersection with Eighth Street to its
intersection with Tenth Street.
   (P)   Sixteenth Avenue. Parking is hereby prohibited on the north side of
Sixteenth Avenue between its intersection with Third Street to its intersection
with the public alley between Third Street and Fourth Street.
   (Q)   Fourth Street. Parking is hereby prohibited on the west side of Fourth
Street between its intersection with Sixteenth Avenue to its intersection with
Twenty-fourth Avenue.
   (R)   Parking is hereby prohibited on Seventh Avenue from the easterly line
of its intersection with Twelfth Street to a point 40 feet east from such
easterly line of Twelfth Street. No parking from here to corner signs shall be
erected.
   (S)   Parking is hereby prohibited on Seventh Street from the westerly line
of its intersection with Tenth Avenue to its intersection with Thirteenth
Avenue.
   (T)   Parking is hereby prohibited on Eleventh Avenue from the southerly
line of its intersection with Tenth Street to its intersection with Fourteenth
Street.
(Ord. 606, passed - -67; Ord. passed - -68; Ord. 634, passed - -71; Ord. 665,
passed - -73; Ord. 717, passed - -77; Ord. 1191, passed 8-20-02; Am. Ord. 1235,
passed 3-15-04; Am. Ord. 1262, passed 11-15-04; Am. Ord. 1295, passed 11-7-05;
Am. Ord. 1304, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord. 1497, passed 12-2-13; Am. Ord. 1501,
passed 3-17-14; Am. Ord. 1596, passed 5-29-18; Am. Ord. 1602, passed 7-23-18;
Am. Ord. 1622, passed 3-25-19; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 9-12-22; Am. Ord. 1730,
passed 10-9-23)
SCHEDULE IV. RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The first 20 foot and the second 26 foot parking stalls south of Fifth
Avenue on the west side of Twelfth Street shall henceforth be restricted to 15
minutes maximum parking for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers on
Mondays through Fridays from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   The portion of Fifth Street between Tenth Avenue and Fourteenth
Avenue, on the west side only, shall henceforth be no parking any time, and
signs shall be erected bearing said designation.
   (C)   No motor vehicle shall be parked continuously in the city public
parking lot, immediately north of the City Hall building at 415 Eleventh
Avenue, for more than 24 hours.
   (D)   Eleven parking stalls on the south side of Twelfth Avenue, consisting
of the first six parking stalls immediately east of the intersection of Twelfth
Street and Twelfth Avenue, and the first five parking stalls immediately east
of the existing handicapped stall which is located immediately east of the six
parking stalls identified above, all 11 parking stalls being north of the
entrance door to the Fulton High School. The 11 parking stalls shall be
restricted only for parking for authorized staff of the Fulton High School and
for visitors to the Fulton High School during normal school hours. Such parking
stalls shall not be restricted except for normal school hours. No parking shall
be allowed during school hours except for such authorized staff and visitors.
   (E)   Parking shall be prohibited on the east side of 12th Street from its
intersection with 4th Avenue to its intersection with 7th Avenue, on each day
the Fulton school is in session for all or part of the day between the hours of
7:30 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. and between the hours of 2:30 p.m. and 3:15 p.m. The
city shall erect signs in such intervals and locations and content as the Chief
of Police deems appropriate.
   (F)   Eleventh Avenue. Parking shall be prohibited on the north side and the
south side of Eleventh Avenue between its intersection with Fourth Street to
its intersection with Third Street on each day from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. from
November 1 each year to the following March 31 of the following calendar year.
The city shall erect signs at such intervals and locations as the Chief of
Police shall deem appropriate.
(Ord. 896, passed 4-4-89; Ord. 905, passed 8-1-89; Ord. 1055, passed 9-3-96;
Ord. 1333, passed 1-15-07; Am. Ord. 1490, passed 9-3-12; Am. Ord. 1622, passed
3-25-19)
SCHEDULE V. RESIDENT PARKING AREA.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any one except a resident to park a vehicle
in a resident parking area and during the times and hours stated in this
section.
   (B)   “Resident parking area” shall be defined as that part of the 1100 and
1200 block of Twelfth Avenue and the 1100 and 1200 block of Thirteenth Avenue
in the city that has been designated by action of a majority vote of the City
Council as a resident parking area at the request of an owner.
   (C)   No resident parking area shall be designated by the City Council
unless requested by the owner of a parcel of real estate in the defined area.
Such owner may make a request to the city to designate the parking area
contiguous to the real estate owned by the person making the request.
   (D)   The parking regulations under this section shall only apply and
parking shall be prohibited from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. each day that the
Riverbend High School is in session for all or part of a day.
   (E)   The city shall erect signs prohibiting parking of any vehicle in an
approved resident parking area informing the general public that parking is
restricted to the owner of the real estate, a resident of the real estate and
permitted guests of the owner and resident.
   (F)   The Police Department shall not be required to conduct regular routine
patrols of the resident parking area to enforce this schedule. It will be the
responsibility of the resident or owner of the real estate to notify the Police
Department that a vehicle may be parked in violation of this schedule. If a
parking violation ticket is issued, the resident or owner who reported the
violation shall be required to appear in court and testify if necessary in the
proper prosecution of the parking violation ticket. If the resident or owner
fails to appear in court and testify, the resident parking only designation for
that property shall be revoked immediately.
(Ord. 1075, passed 8-5-97)
SCHEDULE VI. PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   (A)   Persons with disabilities parking places shall be at the following
locations within the city with specific locations to be determined by the Chief
of Police:
      (1)   The first parking stall on the west side of Fourth Street in the
1000 block, this being the southwest corner of the intersection of Tenth Avenue
and Fourth Street.
      (2)   The last parking stall on the west side of Fourth Street in the
1000 block, this being the northwest corner of the intersection of Eleventh
Avenue and Fourth Street.
      (3)   The last parking stall on the north side of Eleventh Avenue in the
400 block, this being the northeast corner of the intersection of Eleventh
Avenue and Fourth Street.
      (4)   One parallel parking stall located on Twelfth Street in the 300
block on the west side, 140 feet north of the intersection of Twelfth Street
and Fourth Avenue.
      (5)   Two parallel parking stalls located on Twelfth Avenue in the 700
block on the north side of Twelfth Avenue.
      (6)   One parking stall located on First Street in the 1000 block by the
public restrooms.
      (7)   Two parking stalls in the Heritage Canyon parking lot west of North
Fourth Street.
      (8)   Two parking stalls in front of the Gateway Faith Fellowship Church
at 701 Eleventh Avenue.
      (9)   One parking stall on the south side of the Fulton High School at
1207 Twelfth Street.
      (10)   One parking stall in the parking lot of the Fulton Marina at 1800
Fourth Street.
      (11)   One parking stall located on 16th Place in the 800 block for as
long as a person with disabilities is a resident of the building commonly known
as 821-827 16th Place in Fulton, Illinois. The Chief of Police shall have the
authority to remove the disability parking location in the event that no person
with disabilities is a resident of the building.
      (12)   One parking stall located on 12th Avenue in the 900 Block for as
long as a person with disabilities is a resident of the building commonly known
as 928 12th Avenue, Fulton, IL. The Chief of Police shall have the authority to
remove the disability parking location in the event that no person with
disabilities is a resident of 928 12th Avenue.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority granted the city under § 11-208(d) in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, the city exercises its police power to prohibit the
unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities on
private property. All of the terms, conditions, requirements and penalties of
this Schedule VI shall apply the same to violations for parking places on
public property and parking places on private property. Persons with
disabilities parking places on private property shall be at the following
locations within the city with the specific locations to be approved by the
Chief of Police:
STREET LOCATION # SPACES
STREET            LOCATION                            # SPACES
311 N. 9th Street Presbyterian Church lot             4
514 13th Avenue   Trinity Reformed Church lot         4
703 14th Avenue   Second Reformed Church lot          2
510 15th Avenue   First Reformed Church lot           4
801 15th Avenue   First Christian Reformed Church lot 7
1026 3rd Avenue   The Bridge Youth Ministry           2
1301 7th Avenue   Fulton Elementary School lot        3
415 12th Street   River Bend Middle School lot        2
1000 11th Avenue  Unity Grade School lot              2
711 19th Street   Unity High School lot               3
817 17th Street   Harbor Crest Nursing Home           1
1404 14th Avenue  Central Bank lot                    2
1325 17th Street  Community State Bank lot            2
1301 17th Street  Comfort Inn lot                     2
1320 17th Street  Shell Express lot                   1
1500 10th Avenue  Bosma Funeral Home                  2
5253 Fulton Road  McDonald Funeral Home               3
1802 16th Ave     Fulton Fire Department lot          1
1703 10th Avenue  Shear Class Salon lot               1
1510 10th Avenue  Cousins Subs lot                    2
1705 16th Avenue  Fulton Family Health Clinic lot     2
501 10th Avenue   Fulton Public Library lot           1
901 31st Avenue   J.T. Cullen lot                     2
2001 9th Street   Fenix lot                           1
800 20th Avenue   Visual Imaging lot                  1
1200 17th Street  Dollar General Store lot            2
927 14th Street   Sunrise Café lot                   1
1621 6th Street   Palisades Park Apartments           1
1620 8th Street   Palisades Park Apartments           1
 
   (C)   These locations as determined by the City Council shall be designated
by proper signage as required by the Illinois Vehicle Code and the Illinois
Environmental Barriers Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 25, §§1 et seq.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in the designated area on
either public property or private property unless the motor vehicle bears
registration plates issued to a person with disabilities, as defined by ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code as adopted by the city,
or by a special decal or device issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616
or pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
as adopted by the city, or motor vehicle registered in another jurisdiction
upon which is displayed a registration plat, special decal or device issued by
the other jurisdiction designating the vehicle as operated by or for a person
with disabilities.
   (E)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, association or corporation found to
be an operator, driver or owner of a vehicle who has violated this schedule,
relating to persons with disabilities parking, shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $250 for each offense. Violations of this
schedule as evidenced by a parking ticket in a form established by the Chief of
Police shall be punishable by fine as follows:
      (1)   One hundred dollars if paid on or before ten days from the date and
time of issuance of the parking ticket.
      (2)   One hundred fifty dollars if paid more than ten days after the date
and time of issuance of the parking ticket.
      (3)   If the fine in the amount set forth above shall not have been paid
to the office of the City Clerk or to the Police Department within 60 days from
the date and time of issuance of the parking ticket, a complaint shall be filed
in the Circuit Court of Whiteside County and a notice to appeal shall be issued
to the person in whose name the offending vehicle is registered, notifying that
person to appear before the Circuit Court to answer the charge of violating
this schedule. The minimum fine for each offense upon a finding of guilty or
plea of guilty before the Circuit Court on a charge under this section shall be
$250. Proceedings shall follow as in all other ordinance violations of the
city.
(Ord. 937, passed 6-5-91; Am. Ord. 964, passed 8-4-92; Am. Ord. 1020, passed 3-
8-95; Am. Ord. 1052-A, passed 7-2-96; Am. Ord. 1371, passed 5-19-08; Am. Ord.
1424, passed 1-17-11; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 10-6-14; Am. Ord. 1583, passed 2-
12-18)
SCHEDULE VII. RESTRICTIONS ON ROAD TRACTORS, TRUCK TRACTORS AND SEMI-TRAILERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator to park or the owner
to allow the driver or operator to park any road tractor, truck tractor or
trailer at any time or day of the week, for more than two consecutive hours in
any portion of the parking lot at the Fulton Marina, Kiwani’s Park and the City
Hall parking lot, and on any portion of the following named streets, avenues or
public ways within the city.
First Avenue
First Street
Second Avenue
Second Street
Third Avenue
Third Street
Fourth Avenue
Fourth Street
Fifth Avenue
Fifth Street
Sixth Avenue
Sixth Street
Seventh Avenue
Seventh Street
Eighth Avenue
Eighth Street
Ninth AvenueNinth Street
Tenth Avenue
Tenth Street
Eleventh Avenue
Eleventh Street
Twelfth Avenue
Twelfth Street
Thirteenth Avenue
Thirteenth Street
Fourteenth Avenue
Fourteenth Street
Fifteenth Avenue
Sixteenth Avenue
Sixteenth Place
Sixteenth Street
Seventeenth Avenue
Seventeenth Street
Eighteenth Avenue
Nineteenth Avenue
Twentieth Avenue
Twenty-first Avenue
Twenty-second Avenue
Twenty-third Avenue
Twenty-fourth Avenue
Baker
Circle Drive
Fowler
Maple Lane
Middle Road
Rose Lane
Sharon Lane
Suncrest Drive
Valley View
   (B)   The city shall erect signs giving reasonable notice of the parking
prohibition stated herein at each entrance to the city and at such further
locations as may be determined necessary by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Whenever the enforcement of the provisions of this schedule
temporarily causes substantial and unreasonable hardship in the case of any
particular operation, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized agent shall
have the power to grant a temporary permit for such operation, and when so
doing, the Chief of Police or such authorized agent shall designate the
location where such vehicle shall park. The temporary permit shall be for a
time period not in excess of 48 hours.
   (D)   Each two hour period of each day shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 908, passed 10-4-89)
SCHEDULE VIII. SCHOOL BUS LOADING ZONES.
   Automobiles, trucks and all other vehicles except school buses shall be
prohibited from parking on the north side of Thirteenth Avenue between the
intersection of Twelfth Street and the intersection of Thirteenth Street,
between the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on
school days in the city. Signs shall be erected bearing such prohibition and
indicating a school bus loading zone.
(Ord. 1037, passed 10-3-95; Am. Ord. 1062, passed 11-5-96)
SCHEDULE IX. PARKING IN IMPROVEMENT AREA RESTRICTED.
   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be prohibited from parking on
Fourth Street and Fourteenth Avenue within the limits of this improvement.
Parking will not be permitted within the limits of intersections as determined
by the state from intersection studies.
(Ord. 1080, passed 12-2-97)
SCHEDULE X. CALENDAR PARKING AND SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Applicability of schedule.
      (1)   The term "street" as used herein shall include streets, alleys,
city property and public rights-of-way in the city.
      (2)   The provisions of this schedule shall apply when a snow or other
emergency declaration has been issued by the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee.
      (3)   Nothing in this schedule shall be construed to permit parking on
streets where such parking is otherwise prohibited.
      (4)   The provisions of this schedule shall be in effect during a snow or
other emergency as provided in this schedule.
      (5)   The parking restrictions imposed by this schedule shall terminate
block by block as soon as the accumulated snow has been removed from the full
width of the street, or at the direction of the director of public works or his
or her designee in the event of other emergency declaration or order.
   (B)   Declaration of snow or other emergency and notification to the public.
      (1)   Whenever snow, freezing rain, sleet, snowdrifts or other natural
phenomena create, or are likely to create, hazardous road conditions, or road
conditions impeding, or likely to impede, the free movement of fire, health,
police, emergency or other vehicular traffic vital to the health, safety and
welfare of the city: the Director of Public Works, or his or her designee,
shall have the authority to declare a snow or other emergency. Such snow
emergency shall exist until the snow has been removed from the full width of
the street or until the director of public works declares the snow or other
emergency is over.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works shall request the cooperation of the
local news media to announce the declaration of a snow emergency. The
provisions of this schedule prohibiting parking on parts of streets, or
designated snow route streets, shall be effective at a specific time to be
stated in the announcement, not less than one hour after the initial
announcement, and such notice shall constitute notice to the general public of
the declaration of the emergency.
   (C)   Posting of snow or other emergency signs. Signs shall be posted on
primary roads at or near those points of intersection with the corporate
boundaries of the city stating, "Restricted Parking During Snowfall Over 2 in.
or Other Emergencies: Calendar Parking in Effect Until Snow Has Been Removed
from the Full Width of the Street, or ordered by City."
   (D)   Parking restrictions during snow or other emergencies. After the
effective time specified in the declaration of a snow or other emergency, it is
unlawful for any person to obstruct the orderly removal of snow or other debris
from streets by parking or otherwise leaving unattended any motor vehicle upon:
      (1)   Snow routes. Any street which has been designated as a snow route.
The parking restrictions of this schedule shall terminate block by block as
soon as the accumulated snow has been removed from the full width of the
street;
      (2)   All other city streets. During the time of a snow or other
emergency, no person shall leave parked or standing any motor vehicle on an
even-numbered address side of a street within the city on an odd-numbered day
of the month. Nor shall any such vehicle be parked or allowed to stand on the
odd-numbered side of a street within the city on an even-numbered day of the
month. For purposes of this schedule, odd- and even-numbered days shall be
considered as beginning at 7:00 a.m.
   (E)   Designation of snow routes. No parking shall be permitted on all snow
emergency routes until snow has been plowed to the outside edges of the
traveled portions of the street rights-of-way. emergency snow routes shall be
designated by blue and white "snow route" signs. The following streets are
designated as snow emergency routes:
      (1)   Third Avenue;
      (2)   Tenth Avenue;
      (3)   Fourteenth Avenue;
      (4)   Sixteenth Avenue;
      (5)   Nineteenth Avenue;
      (6)   Twenty-fourth Avenue;
      (7)   Fourth Street;
      (8)   Fifth Street from Fourteenth Avenue north to Tenth Avenue;
      (9)   Sixth Street;
      (10)   Ninth Street;
      (11)   Twelfth Street;
      (12)   Route to Senior Housing Home (from Tenth Avenue north on Sixteenth
Street to Ninth Avenue east to Seventeenth Street north to Eighth Avenue and
Harbor Crest).
   (F)   Towing of vehicles. During the time of a snow or other emergency, the
Chief of Police or his or her designee may direct those vehicles parked in
violation of this schedule be removed, and that the owner of any vehicle so
removed shall be responsible for all towing and storage costs. Neither the city
nor the towing service shall be liable for any damage to any vehicle, device or
property so removed.
   (G)   Termination of snow or other emergency. Whenever the Director of
Public Works shall find that the conditions which gave rise to the snow or
other emergency no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the
termination of the snow emergency, effective immediately upon announcement.
When the snow or other emergency is terminated, it shall then be lawful to park
on streets in accordance with the regular parking provisions. The Director of
Public Works shall request the cooperation of the local media to announce the
termination of the snow or other emergency.
   (H)   Violation: penalty designated. Any violation of this schedule shall be
subject to a fine in the amount provided in the city penalty §
94.99 plus any towing charges and storage charges incurred by the city. Any
vehicle removed at the direction of the Chief of Police, or his or her designee
is subject to administrative penalty of the City of Fulton, not to exceed $100.
For purposes of prosecution under this schedule, if a vehicle is found parked
or left unattended in violation of the provisions of this schedule, the
registered owner thereof shall be responsible for said violation.
(‘82 Code, § 10.28.020) (Ord. 742, passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1716, passed 3-27-23)
SCHEDULE XI. GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to permit any vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other vehicles, or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic control signal, to stand in any of the following places:
      (1)   In any crosswalk;
      (2)   In any intersection;
      (3)   Upon any bridge or viaduct or the approach thereto;
      (4)   Within 20 feet of any intersection;
      (5)   At any curb within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of the entrance to any fire department station, and
on the side of the street opposite the entrance to the station within 75 feet
of the entrance;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of
a curb or street; or
      (9)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side thereof at the curb, and
it is unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in any street other than parallel
with the curb and with the two right wheels within 12 inches of the regularly
established curb line, except upon those streets which have been marked for
angle parking upon which vehicles shall be parked within the lines and at the
angle indicated by such marks.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street for the
purpose of vending or peddling merchandise from such vehicle.
   (D)   During the times specified in this section it is unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for longer than is necessary
to load or unload passengers, and in no event longer than five minutes, and for
the driver to stand any freight vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload or deliver materials, and in no event longer than 15
minutes in any public alley, during any hour of the day or night.
   (E)   No motor vehicle or vehicle or trailer or watercraft shall be
continuously in one place on any street, avenue or alley in the city for more
than 72 hours. The term STREET, AVENUE and ALLEY shall be defined to include
the entire public right of way and all property dedicated for public use and
not only the paved portion used for roadway purposes. The term MOTOR VEHICLE,
VEHICLE AND TRAILER shall be the same as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code
adopted by reference in §
70.01 of this code. The term WATERCRAFT shall be as defined in Chapter 625,
Illinois Compiled Statutes, Act 5 entitled Boat Registration and Safety Act.
(Ord. 1183, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-15-17)
SCHEDULE XII. DEFINITIONS.
   The word VEHICLE, when used in this chapter, shall mean every devise, in,
upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon
a street, alley or highway, or requiring a certificate of title under the laws
of the state, except devices moved by human power, devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as defined in the Illinois
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
(Ord. 1318, passed 8-21-06)
SCHEDULE XIII. PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1368, passed 4-7-08)
CHAPTER 73: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE OPERATION ON CITY STREETS
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1763,
adopted 6-9-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Requirements
   
73.03   Permits
   
73.04   Signage
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. The portion of any street, alley or roadway, improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicle travel or parking, located within the
boundaries of the City of Fulton, Illinois, excluding any highway under the
jurisdiction of the State of Illinois or County of Whiteside.
   CODE. The Illinois Vehicle Code in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES. A motor vehicle authorized by state law in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1 and defined in the Code as follows:
      (1)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more
non-highway tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and
handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as
lawnmowers.
      (2)   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the
purposes of transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or
maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the
play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or
private golf course.
      (3)   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Any motorized device designed to travel
primarily off-highway on two wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
operator, upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported
or drawn.
      (4)   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device
designed to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
(Ord. 1677, passed 4-26-21)
§ 73.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   A person may operate a non-highway vehicle on the city streets if the person
and non-highway vehicle comply with all the following requirements and
conditions:
   (A)   All non-highway vehicles shall be certified by the Chief of Police
after inspection by a city designated representative. If the vehicle is
certified by the Chief, a permit shall be issued by the Chief evidenced by a
decal which shall be affixed to the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   All permits shall expire on July 1 of each year, unless renewed.
   (C)   Comply with the published "Rules Concerning Operation of Non-Highway
Vehicles on City Streets" as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Must have current, valid ddwr's license issued to the operator.
   (E)   No non-highway vehicles shall be operated on any city street unless
equipped with all of the following in good operating condition:
      (1)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (2)   Turn signals;
      (3)   Steering wheel apparatus;
      (4)   Tires;
      (5)   Rearview mirror;
      (6)   "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle as required
by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709;
      (7)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which will illuminate when in operation;
      (8)   Tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear which must illuminate when in operation;
      (9)   Red reflectorized warning devices on each rear side and one in the
center rear of the vehicle; and
      (10)   The operator and passenger shall not use the vehicle in an unsafe
manner.
   (F)   Comply with the mandatory insurance requirements under ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §§ 6-100 et seq.
   (G)   Any other applicable requirements of the Code as may be amended from
time to time.
   (H)   Yield to the right-of-way to all other vehicles and pedestrians at all
times.
   (I)   All occupants of a non-highway vehicle between the ages of three years
and 18 years of age shall be restrained with a seat belt at all times while the
non-highway vehicle is moving in any direction. Furthermore, all occupants
under the age of three years shall be restrained in a car seat and the car seat
shall be attached to the non-llighway vehicle by a seatbelt.
   (J)   Obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the City of Fulton.
   (K)   All operators of a non-highway vehicle shall be 18 years of age or
older.
   (L)   Operation is prohibited on sidewallcs or city parks other than parking
areas.
   (M)   A non-highway vehicle may not be operated in excess of 25 miles per
hour or the posted speed limit, whichever is lower.
   (N)   (1)   Non-highway vehicles may not operate on 14th Avenue (also known
as Illinois Route 136) except to cross 14th Avenue at its intersection with 4th
Street, 9th Street and 14th Street and shall only cross 14th Avenue at an angle
of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of Route 136 and not at any other
intersections in the city, is brought to a complete stop before attempting a
crossing and the operator shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrian and
vehicle traffic which constitutes a hazard.
      (2)   Non-highway vehicles may not cross 10th Avenue except at its
intersection with 9th Street and 14th Street.
   (O)   The operator and the non-highway vehicle shall be subject to
inspection by the Chief of Police or a representative of the Police Department
at any time.
   (P)   A non-highway vehicle shall not be operated from 10:00 p.m. to the
following morning at sunrise and shall not be operated during inclement weather
or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other condition, or at
any time when light is insufficient to clearly see persons or vehicles on the
city streets at a distance of 500 feet, in an unsafe or reckless manner, or in
violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (Q)   The operator and passengers shall not use or operate the vehicle in an
unsafe manner as determined by the Fulton Police Department.
   (R)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a non-highway vehicle
shall not be allowed to operate on the following streets, avenues and public
places in the city at any time whatsoever:
      (1)   The entire length of 4th Street south of its intersection with 24th
Avenue and that part of 4th Street between its intersection with 13th Avenue
and 10th Avenue. Fourth Street shall not be crossed at its intersection with
12th Avenue or its intersection with 11th Avenue;
      (2)   The entire length of 14th, Avenue except for that part of 14th
Avenue between its intersection with 14th Street and its intersection with 17th
Street;
      (3)   The entire length of 31st Avenue;
      (4)   The entire length of 10th Avenue;
      (5)   The entire length of 12th Street from its intersection with 14th
Avenue to its intersection with 3rd Avenue;
      (6)   The entire length of Illinois Route 84;
      (7)   The entire length of US Highway 30; and
      (8)   The entire length of all bicycle and pedestrian paths and pathways
in the city on any public property and on public areas intended for use by
pedestrians and bicycles.
(Ord. 1677, passed 4-26-21)
§ 73.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle without first obtaining
a permit from the Chief of Police as provided herein. Permits shall be granted
for a period of one year from July 1 to June 30. The cost of a permit shall be
$100 for each vehicle for a full year and pro-rated to $50 for half year or
less. Insurance coverage shall be verified by the police department when
issuing or renewing a permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier and policy number;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of the non-highway
vehicle;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the City of
Fulton and its officers, Mayor, City Council and employees and agreeing to
indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all future claims resulting
from the operation of their non-highway vehicle on the city streets;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card for the
vehicle to be operated pursuant ta the permit;
      (6)   Such other information as the city may require;
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the city Chief of Police (or
designee) to ensure that the non-highway vehicle is safe to operate an city
streets and is in compliance with this chapter and the Code;
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified non-highway vehicle on city streets;
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of all applicable Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability
insurance for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the State
of Illinois.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
determination by the Chief of Police in his or her sole discretion, that the
holder thereof has violated any provision of this Chapter or the Code or that
the holder cannot safely operate a qualified non-highway vehicle on city
streets.
(Ord. 1677, passed 4-26-21)
§ 73.04 SIGNAGE.
   The city shall erect appropriate signs required by any applicable law or
regulation including the state manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and
such other signs the city determines appropriate. Operators shall obey all
signage.
(Ord. 1677, passed 4-26-21)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or any person who
operates a non-highway vehicle in violation of any provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each
offense. Any second or subsequent offense shall result in a revocation of the
authority to operate a non-highway vehicle on city streets for a period of not
less than three years. The length of the revocation shall be determined by the
City Council. In addition, all court costs, which shall include all costs
incurred by the city in prosecuting the case, shall be recoverable from anyone
convicted of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1677, passed 4-26-21)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIREWORKS; EXPLOSIVES
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
      
93.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
96.   RIVERFRONT BOATING FACILITIES
CHAPTER 90: FIREWORKS; EXPLOSIVES
Section
Fireworks
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Sale and use of fireworks restricted
   
90.03   City Council requirement
   
90.04   Permit application procedure
Explosives
   
90.20   Storage of explosives; permit requirement
   
90.21   Permit application; bond
   
90.22   Storage of nitroglycerine or TNT; restrictions
   
90.23   Storage of explosives; regulatory authority
FIREWORKS
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, FIREWORKS means and includes any
explosive composition or any substance or combinations of substances or article
prepared for the purpose of producing an audible or visible effect by
explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation and shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and
any fireworks containing any explosive compound, or any tablet or other device
containing any explosive compound, or any tablet or other device containing any
explosive substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; provided, however, that the term shall not include snake or glow worm
pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as “party poppers”, “booby
traps”, “snappers”, “trickmatches”, “cigarette loads” and “auto burglar
alarms”; sparklers, toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other like devices in
which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of
explosive compound are used, providing they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion, and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty-five hundredths
grains of explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at
all times.
(‘82 Code, § 8.24.010)
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks Regulation Act, ILCS Ch. 425, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.
   Pyrotechnic Use Act, ILCS Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 90.02 SALE OR USE OF FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided in this subchapter, it is unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to offer or expose for sale, sell, use or explode any fireworks.
(‘82 Code, § 8.24.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.03 CITY COUNCIL REQUIREMENT.
   Permission for public displays of fireworks may be granted by the City
Council to any group of three or more adult individuals.
(‘82 Code, § 8.24.030)
§ 90.04 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall
state the group desiring to make such public display and the premises upon
which such display is to be set off and the premises upon which they are to be
stored previous to such display. All of such storage, exhibition and display
shall be under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department or some
other person designated by him or her.
(‘82 Code, § 8.24.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
EXPLOSIVES
§ 90.20 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES; PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful to keep or store any dynamite, black powder, gunpowder or
guncotton in excess of five pounds in any one building or on any one premises
within the city without a permit from the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 8.20.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.21 PERMIT APPLICATION; BOND.
   (A)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall be accompanied by a statement showing the amount of such explosives
intended to be kept, the kind of explosive intended to be kept, the premises
upon which such explosive is to be kept, the purpose for which it is to be used
and a statement that all such explosives are to be stored or kept in accordance
with all of the rules and regulations laid down by the State Fire Marshal with
regard to such explosives.
   (B)   The application shall be further accompanied by a bond or indemnity
policy in the sum of $10,000 with corporate surety, conditioned upon the
compliance of the applicant with all of the provisions of this chapter and to
hold the city harmless from any loss, damage or liability by reason of the
storage or use of such explosives.
(‘82 Code, § 8.20.020)
§ 90.22 STORAGE OF NITROGLYCERINE OR TNT; RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to keep, store or use any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the city in any quantity except for medicinal or
laboratory purposes, and for such purpose no more than one-half pound shall be
kept or stored in any one building.
(‘82 Code, § 8.20.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.23 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES; REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   All explosives kept or stored in the city, regardless of the amount or kind
of such explosive, shall be kept and stored in accordance with the rules and
regulations laid down and enforced by the State Marshal with regard thereto.
(‘82 Code, § 8.20.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1764,
adopted 6-23-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Milk
   
91.02   Plants and weeds
   
91.03   Flood control system
Food Services Establishments
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Sale of unwholesome food prohibited
   
91.17   Sale of adulterated food prohibited
   
91.18   Sanitary premises requirements
   
91.19   Utensil sterilization
   
91.20   Additional sanitary requirements
   
91.21   Personal hygiene of food handlers
Contagious Diseases
   
91.35   Physician report requirement
   
91.36   Health officer; quarantine powers
   
91.37   Unlawful spread of contagious or epidemic disease
   
91.38   Delivery or pickup of food or food containers from quarantine premises
Nuisances
   
91.50   Nuisances prohibited
   
91.51   Definitions
   
91.52   Notice of violation
   
91.53   Lien
   
91.54   Violations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 MILK.
   (A)   Pasteurized milk defined.  
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, "pasteurized milk" means milk
subjected to one of the following processes:
         (a)   The process of heating every particle of milk to at least 145°F
and holding at such temperature for at least 30 minutes;
         (b)   Heating every particle of milk to at least 161°F and holding
such temperature at least 15 seconds.
      (2)   Either method shall be carried out only in apparatus approved by
the State Department of Health and properly operated. Provided, nothing in this
definition shall be considered as disbarring any other process which has been
demonstrated to be equally efficient and is approved by the Department of
Health.
(‘82 Code, § 8.08.010)
   (B)   Sale of unpasteurized milk prohibited. No person, firm, association or
corporation shall sell or distribute, offer to sell or distribute or possess
with intent to sell or distribute any milk for human use or consumption in this
city unless such milk has been pasteurized.
(‘82 Code, § 8.08.020)
(Ord. 493, passed - -57)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.02 PLANTS AND WEEDS.
   (A)   Nuisance weeds. Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cockleburr or any other weeds of like kind found growing in any lot or tract of
land in the city are a nuisance, and it is unlawful to permit any such weeds to
grow or remain in any such place.
(‘82 Code, § 8.28.010)
   (B)   Weeds, grass or plants; height restrictions. It is unlawful to permit
any weeds, grass or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers or other
ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding eight inches anywhere within
the city, any such plants exceeding such height are a nuisance.
(‘82 Code, § 8.28.020)
   (C)   Abatement procedure. 
      (1)   It is the duty of the health officer to serve or cause to be served
a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants
are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this section and to
demand the abatement of such nuisances within ten days.
      (2)   If such person does not proceed to abate such nuisance within ten
days, the health officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an
account of the expenses of such abatement, and such expense shall be charged to
and paid by such owner or occupant.
(‘82 Code, § 8.28.030)
   (D)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section
or any other section of this Code, a committee comprised of the Public Works
Director, City Administrator and one Alderman to be appointed by the Mayor to
serve for the time set forth in the motion, may determine in their sole
discretion by majority vote, to grant an exception for certain areas of the
city to the requirements of this section. Any exceptions granted by a majority
vote of the committee shall be set forth in writing with sufficient clarity to
identify the location of the excepted area and all terms and conditions of the
exception as may be determined at the sole discretion of the committee. A copy
of the written exception shall be provided to the owner or owners of the real
estate included in the exception and shall be available at City Hall for
inspection by the general public. The City Council may by majority vote,
reverse a decision of the committee to grant or deny an exception under this
section.
(Ord. 1435, passed 9-6-11)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FLOOD CONTROL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Misuse prohibited. It is unlawful to damage, interfere with or misuse
the city flood control system, as defined in division (B) of this section, so
as to hinder the safe and proper operation of the system or cause unnecessary
costs to the city.
(‘82 Code, § 8.60.010)
   (B)   System defined. "Flood control system" means all structures and
property, including flood protection levies, pumping stations, drainage
structures, ditches, culverts and right-of-way markers that are or will be
established, constructed or placed for the purpose of controlling flood waters
in the corporate limits of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 8.60.020)
   (C)   Prohibited acts. The following acts shall be considered misusing,
damaging or interfering with the flood control system and are prohibited:
      (1)   The driving or operating of any motorized vehicle on any part of
any flood control levy or embankment thereof, except as authorized by an
officer of the city for the purpose of maintenance, repair or other
nondestructive activity;
      (2)   The abandoning or storing of any motorized vehicle or part thereof
on any flood control system property;
      (3)   The removal, destruction or defacing of any right-of-way marker,
drainage structure, building, gate or fence that exists as a part of the flood
control system;
      (4)   The depositing of any items such as junk, rubbish, ground, brush,
trees, boards, tires and so forth, on any levy or in any drainage ditch of the
flood control system;
      (5)   The removal or displacement of any ground, rock or sod from any
levy or drainage ditch without the authorization of the Mayor or City
Superintendent.
(‘82 Code, § 8.60.030)
(Ord. 737, passed - -79)
FOOD SERVICES ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD. Any condiment, nutrient or aliment, whether vegetable, animal or
mineral, either raw or processed or partly raw and partly processed, which is
fit for or used for human consumption. Additionally, FOOD means and includes
any beverage intended for human consumption.
   FOOD DEALER. Any person, firm or corporation which shall sell or offer for
sale, or keep or store for the purpose of sale or offering for sale such food.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.010)
§ 91.16 SALE OF UNWHOLESOME FOOD PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall sell, offer for sale, keep or store any
food of any kind which is spoiled, tainted or is unwholesome or unfit for human
consumption for any reason.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.020)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.17 SALE OF ADULTERATED FOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale or keep or store for such purpose any
food or drink which has been adulterated by any material harmful in any way or
which does not comply with the state statutes governing the same.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.030)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.18 SANITARY PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   Premises used for the sale of food or drink intended for human consumption
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and it is unlawful to permit
any accumulation of refuse or waste of any kind therein or thereon for more
than 24 hours. It is unlawful to permit any decaying plant or animal matter to
remain on such premises at all.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.040)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.19 UTENSIL STERILIZATION.
   Utensils for personal use in all places serving food or drink to the public
shall be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized after each such usage.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.20 ADDITIONAL SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All premises used in the sale or storage of food or drink intended for
human consumption shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   It is unlawful to permit any person who is afflicted with any
contagious, infectious or epidemic disease to handle any food or drink intended
for sale.
   (C)   Premises shall be kept free of flies and vermin of all kinds.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.060)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.21 PERSONAL HYGIENE OF FOOD HANDLERS.
   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food or drink
intended for human consumption shall keep themselves and their clothes clean,
and it is unlawful to permit any person afflicted with any contagious,
infectious or venereal disease to handle any food intended for sale for human
consumption.
(‘82 Code, § 8.04.070)
Penalty, see § 91.99
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 91.35 PHYSICIAN REPORT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Every physician called in to treat or care for any contagious or
epidemic disease shall report the same within 24 hours to the health officer.
   (B)   In case no physician is in attendance, it shall be the duty of the
person having charge of or in care of such person to make a report within 24
hours from the time the disease is recognized.
(‘82 Code, § 8.12.010)
§ 91.36 HEALTH OFFICER; QUARANTINE POWERS.
   The health officer shall have charge of the enforcement of rules of
quarantine. He or she shall have the power and authority to place any premises
in which a contagious or epidemic disease occurs under quarantine, and he or
she shall determine when such quarantine shall end and shall have the power to
order the fumigation of such premises before ending such quarantine.
(‘82 Code, § 8.12.020)
§ 91.37 UNLAWFUL SPREAD OF CONTAGIOUS OR EPIDEMIC DISEASE.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or carelessly spread any
contagious or epidemic disease, or to cause or allow the spread of the same.
(‘82 Code, § 8.12.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.38 DELIVERY OR PICKUP OF FOOD OR FOOD CONTAINERS FROM QUARANTINE PREMISES.
   (A)   No person engaged in the delivery of food or drink intended for human
consumption shall enter any premises which are quarantined because of the
existence of a contagious or infectious disease.
   (B)   No containers or bottles shall be removed from any such premises until
the termination of the quarantine, and no container which has been left at the
premises during the time of the quarantine shall be used for carrying food or
drink intended for human consumption until it has been thoroughly sterilized.
(‘82 Code, § 8.12.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.50 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to create, cause or permit a nuisance, as
defined in §
91.57, to exist or be maintained within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 976, passed 7-6-93)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the city.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall also include those motor vehicles not
currently licensed, or motor vehicles currently licensed but not displaying the
license, by this state or any other state or county exposed to the view of the
general public.  INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include:
      (1)   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
repair operations.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use.
      (3)   Operable historical vehicles over 25 years of age which are
currently licensed, and displaying said license, by this state or any other
state or county.
      (4)   A motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles and so licensed as a place of
business under the ordinances of the city.
   NUISANCE. Whatever is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to the
senses or an obstacle to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. The following are
declared to be nuisances; provided, however, that the following shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The unnecessary or unauthorized erecting, continuing or using any
building or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment or
manufacture, which by occasioning noxious exhalation, offensive smells or other
annoyances becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or property
of individuals or the public;
      (2)   The obstructing or impeding without legal authority the passage of
any navigable river, harbor or collection of water;
      (3)   The corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water of any
river, stream or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its natural course
or state to the injury or prejudice of others;
      (4)   The obstructing or encumbering by fences, buildings or otherwise
the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places or
burying grounds;
      (5)   Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether erected and
constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof;
      (6)   All unnecessary or unauthorized substances which emit or cause
foul, obnoxious, unhealthful, putrid, noisome or disagreeable odor or effluvia
and which are objectionable or offensive to any person or persons residing near
the same or to any person passing along any street, sidewalk or alley near the
same;
      (7)   For any person to dump, deposit, store or place any garbage,
rubbish, trash or refuse upon property within the city, except as may be
allowed by city ordinance or state and federal regulations;
      (8)   To cause or permit any premises within the city to become or remain
littered with tin cans, glass jars, bottles, scrap glass, paper cartons, scraps
of paper, boxes, ashes, iron, old hot water tanks, oil storage tanks, tin or
other metal materials, refuse, rubbish, junk, waste, manure, straw, piles of
grass clippings, lumber, old bricks, concrete blocks, chunks of broken
concrete, plaster board, discarded furniture, household appliances, mattresses,
bedsprings, portable swimming pools in disrepair, tires or other like matters
of things;
      (9)   To create or permit to be created or remain upon any premises
within the city for a period of more than 30 days the storing, piling,
scattering, accumulating, heaping, amassing or collecting bricks, concrete
materials, straw, lumber, structural iron, pipe, roofing materials or any
building materials where the same is in public view and where the same may or
does constitute a safety hazard to children playing in the area or so that the
same may or does become an attraction to or haven for vermin or rodents;
building materials stored outdoors on any site for construction authorized by a
building permit shall not be permitted to remain more than 30 days after
completion of construction upon a job site;
      (10)   To cause or permit the existence or storage in any place
accessible to children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice
chest, deep freeze or other airtight appliance or container of any kind of a
capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more from which the lids, doors or
other covers have not been removed, or which cannot easily be opened by a
child, by means of pushing only, from the inside;
      (11)   Permitting or causing the carcasses of animals to remain exposed
more than 12 hours after death;
      (12)   All slop, foul or dirty water, filth or refuse or offal discharged
in or upon any street, avenue, sidewalk, alley, park, public square or public
or private enclosure or allowed to accumulate there or in a pond or pool;
      (13)   To obstruct any water source, ravine or gutter so as to cause
water to stagnate therein, or permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any
premises;
      (14)    To allow an unkept appearance to exist on the parkway immediately
adjacent to private property as caused by rubbish, debris or overgrown,
uncultivated plant life;
      (15)   Nuisance as stated in sections of the city code;
      (16)   Any abandoned or partially dismantled, derelict, nonoperating,
wrecked or junked vehicle; a vehicle in a state of substantial disrepair on any
street, highway or public place within the city; any such vehicle in public
view on any private property for more that seven days; any motor vehicle parked
in the front yard of a residential or commercial property in the city for more
than 24 hours; or more than five motor vehicles parked in public view on
private property for a period of more than 24 hours;
      (17)   Any inoperable motor vehicle which is located for seven days or
more upon public or private property in the city which is in public view. Each
motor vehicle which is permitted to exist as a nuisance shall be considered a
separate nuisance and, therefore, also constitutes the basis for a separate
offense.
   OPERABLE HISTORICAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle in an
operable condition which is 25 years of age or older and is currently licensed,
and displaying said license, by this state or any other state or county.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The contract purchaser if there is one of record, otherwise
the record holder of legal title.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Visible from the adjoining property, street or avenue.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
(Ord. 976, passed 7-6-93; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 10-1-96)
§ 91.52 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall cause notice to be given
to the personal property owner of each violation of this subchapter upon
receiving a signed complaint. Such notice shall be in writing, define the
violation and describe the location of the violation. The notice shall be
served personally or forwarded by United States mail to the last known address
of the person or property owner. Further, the notice shall demand abatement of
the nuisance within ten days from the date the notice was served or mailed. If
the nuisance is not remedied within such period of time, the city may cause
such nuisance to be remedied at the exclusive cost of the person violating this
subchapter. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Chief of Police or
his or her designee may charge the owner of any motor vehicle causing a
nuisance as described in §
91.51(15) of this subchapter as any other traffic violation under this code and
no notice is required as herein described, and the penalty for such violation
shall be the penalty as described under the general penalty provisions of the
code as it applies to other traffic violations under this code.
(Ord. 976, passed 7-6-93)
§ 91.53 LIEN.
   In the event that payment of the actual costs of the abatement of any
nuisance by the city under the provisions of this subchapter is not made on
demand, such costs shall become a lien upon the property from which such
nuisance was abated.
(Ord. 976, passed 7-6-93)
§ 91.54 VIOLATIONS.
   Every person who creates, causes or permits a nuisance under this subchapter
and every owner, occupant, agent or trustee of any premises where such nuisance
exists who fails or refuses to abate the same as provided in this subchapter
shall be deemed guilty of violating this subchapter; and each day that such
nuisance continues after the date of abatement as set forth in the notice
required herein shall constitute and be a separate and distinct violation
thereof.
(Ord. 976, passed 7-6-93)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 976, passed 7-6-93; Am. Ord. 1368, passed 4-7-08; Am. Ord. 1713, passed -
-)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Display of goods or advertisements on public way unlawful
   
92.002   Encroaching structure
   
92.003   Unlawful deposits; exceptions
   
92.004   Obstruction of drain
   
92.005   Erection of poles and wires
   
92.006   Erection of gas pump or tank; bond
   
92.007   Playing games in street
   
92.008   Maintaining opening in street
   
92.009   Electric fence unlawful
   
92.010   Turnoff of park lights
   
92.011   Road graveling fee
   
92.012   Obstructing access to public buildings, streets, sidewalks and the
like
Construction and Repair
   
92.025   Enforcement authority
   
92.026   Construction permit; application, bond
   
92.027   Construction specifications
   
92.028   Injuring newly laid pavement
   
92.029   Unlawful obstruction of street or sidewalk
   
92.030   Barricade; requirement, interference
   
92.031   Mandatory sidewalk construction
Excavation Regulations
   
92.045   Permit required
   
92.046   Permit application and issuance
   
92.047   Permit fee
   
92.048   Permit deposit
   
92.049   Barricading required
   
92.050   Excavation methods
   
92.051   Temporary sidewalk construction
   
92.052   Time limit for completion of excavation
   
92.053   Restoration of surface
   
92.054   Supervisory authority
   
92.055   Removal of rubble required; backfilling materials
   
92.056   Unnecessary obstruction by materials prohibited
   
92.057   Obstruction of streets
   
92.058   Removal of materials prohibited
   
92.059   Violations
Sidewalk Repair
   
92.075   Declaration of necessity
   
92.076   Removal of damaged sidewalks
   
92.077   Replacement sidewalk - specifications
   
92.078   Replacement sidewalk - material cost to be borne by owner
   
92.079   Sidewalks in disrepair – priority
   
92.080   New construction
   
92.081   Program dates/responsibilities
   
92.082   Barriers required
   
92.083   Unnecessary obstruction by materials prohibited
   
92.084   Obstruction of sidewalks
   
92.085   Unnecessary occupation by tools and materials prohibited
   
92.086   Landscaping finished sidewalks
   
92.087   Maintenance of sidewalk; owner responsibility
   
92.088   Assessment of costs and repairs
Encroachments
   
92.090   Definitions
   
92.091   Encroachment prohibited
Driveways
   
92.105   Permit; application, fee
   
92.106   Construction specifications
   
92.107   Maintenance requirement
Signs; Awnings
   
92.120   Permit requirement
   
92.121   Minimum heights
   
92.122   Construction requirements
   
92.123   Police Chief inspection duty; abatement procedure
Substreet or Sidewalk Space
   
92.135   Permit required
   
92.136   Application procedure; bond
   
92.137   Construction specifications; maintenance requirement
Weight Limits
   
92.150   Conditions
   
92.151   Permit requirements
   
92.152   Violations
Vacation of Streets and Alleys
   
92.160   Vacation of streets and alleys
Public Gatherings
   
92.165   Building construction requirement
   
92.166   Premises inspection requirement
   
92.167   Construction requirements
   
92.168   Admissions in excess of seating prohibited
   
92.169   Advance notice to city; compliance requirement
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 DISPLAY OF GOODS OR ADVERTISEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAY UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place for the display of goods or merchandise for sale
or to write or mark any signs or advertisements upon any such place.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.010)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.002 ENCROACHING STRUCTURE.
   It is unlawful to erect or maintain any building or other structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.020)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.003 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to deposit on any street or sidewalk anything which
might be harmful to the pavement thereof or any glass, refuse or waste
material, or any other article which might do injury to any person, animal or
property.
   (B)   Coal, building materials or other like material may be deposited in
the street preparatory to delivery or use, provided that such deposit does not
reduce the usable width of the street or roadway at any point to less than 18
feet; and provided, that such coal or material, other than material to be used
in actual building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on the street
for more than three hours. Any such material or coal shall be properly guarded
by lights if it remains on the streets after nighttime.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.030)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.004 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN.
   It is unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.040)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.005 ERECTION OF POLES AND WIRES.
   It is unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires over any public
street or alley without having first obtained permission from the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.050)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.006 ERECTION OF GAS PUMP OR TANK; BOND.
   It is unlawful hereafter to erect any gas pump or tank in any public street
or alley without having first obtained permission from the Council. No such
permit shall be issued until the applicant furnishes a bond with corporate
surety, conditioned to indemnify the city against any loss or liability
occasioned by such pump or tank, in the sum of $5,000.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.060)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.007 PLAYING GAMES IN STREET.
   It is unlawful to play any game upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public way where such games may interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.070)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.008 MAINTAINING OPENING IN STREET.
   It is unlawful to maintain or construct any opening or stairway in any
public street, alley or sidewalk without a permit of the Council. All such
lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable railing or cover.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.080)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.009 ELECTRIC FENCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to construct or maintain any fence composed in whole or in
part of barbed wire or any wire charged with electric current anywhere within
three feet of any public street or alley, sidewalk, park or other public way or
place.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.090)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.010 TURNOFF OF PARK LIGHTS.
   All lights in all public parks shall be turned off at the hour of 10:30
p.m., except those lights deemed necessary for public safety by the City Police
Committee.
(‘82 Code, § 12.44.100) (Ord. 687, passed - -75)
§ 92.011 ROAD GRAVELING FEE.
   (A)   It is determined to be in the best interests of the city and its
inhabitants that when new roads are requested in a new subdivision or elsewhere
which are to be covered with gravel that the owners of the property on either
side of such road shall pay for the gravel at an amount to be determined from
time to time by the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.08.010)
   (B)   The city will not be required to gravel such road unless the owners on
both sides of the road owning real estate shall pay an amount to be determined
from time to time by the city per running foot for the total frontage, or
unless the owner of real estate on one side of the road shall pay for both
sides of the total frontage at an amount to be determined from time to time by
the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.08.020)
(Ord. 566, passed - -64; Ord. 616, passed - -67; Ord. 728, passed - -78)
§ 92.012 OBSTRUCTING ACCESS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS, STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, park, public place or any public
building, obstruct the access to any public building, or any part thereof, or
obstruct passage through or upon any public street, park or public place.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term "obstruct" encompasses, but
is not necessarily limited to one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the free, unhampered passage of pedestrians or
vehicles;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or other public place;
      (3)   Obstructing or otherwise interfering with the free passage of
persons entering or occupying such buildings or premises;
      (4)   Use of language, conversation or conduct which annoys, insults or
disturbs persons passing along the street or other public places or occupying,
residing or doing business in any of such houses or places;
      (5)   Refusing to move on when so requested by a peace officer, provided
that the peace officer has exercised his or her discretion reasonably under the
circumstances in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
(‘82 Code, § 12.48.010) (Ord. 749, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 92.025 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the city
shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets. He or she
shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to
such public places and is authorized to enforce such ordinances.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.010)
§ 92.026 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT; APPLICATION, BOND.
   (A)   Application procedure. It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public way without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof and the person or firm who is to do the actual work. No such
permit shall be issued except on order of the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.020)
   (B)   Bond requirement. Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount to be
approved by the Council with such surety as may be approved by the Council,
conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss or damage resulting from the
work or the manner of doing the same.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.030)
§ 92.027 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.040)
§ 92.028 INJURING NEWLY LAID PAVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or injure
any newly laid pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or
barricade, or to knowingly injure any newly laid pavement.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.050)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.029 UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTION OF STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Superintendent
of Streets.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.060)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.030 BARRICADE; REQUIREMENT, INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Requirement.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on
any street, sidewalk or other public place or making any excavation in any such
place shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or
vehicle. Such barricades shall be protected by lights at night.
      (2)   Any defects in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury,
and any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any excavation or
opening in any such place shall guard such opening by proper barricades and
lights.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.070)
   (B)   Interference unlawful. It is unlawful to disturb or interfere with any
light or barricade properly placed to prevent injury or to protect or mark any
pavement or excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk.
(‘82 Code, § 12.04.080) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 MANDATORY SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It is determined by the City Council that it is in the best interest of the
public welfare of the residents of the city that sidewalks be constructed at
the time of construction of any new residence or commercial building. From the
effective date of this section, a sidewalk shall be installed at the time of
construction of any new residential, commercial or industrial structure. No
building permit for construction of a dwelling or commercial or industrial
structure shall be issued for any lot or parcel in the city until such time as
the applicant has provided plans approved by the Public Works Director to
insure that a sidewalk is constructed on the lot or parcel in full compliance
with all regulations of the city and in full compliance with any requirements
of the Public Works Director, at the sole cost of the applicant or owner of the
real estate. The City Council shall have the authority to waive this
requirement by majority vote.
(Ord. 1454, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
92.999
EXCAVATION REGULATIONS
§ 92.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit as required in this subchapter or without
complying with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any such permit.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter related to securing permits shall
not apply to officers or employees of the city engaged in doing work for the
city, nor to persons or corporations doing work for the city under contract,
nor to persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise or grant
from the city if such franchise provides for the making of excavations and
tunnels without securing a permit therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.010) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.046 PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor and the person, firm or corporation for whom or which the
work is being done and shall contain an agreement that the applicant will
comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Chairman of the
Street Committee.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.020) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
§ 92.047 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for such permits shall be an amount to be determined from time to
time by the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.030) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
§ 92.048 PERMIT DEPOSIT.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the City Clerk a cash deposit in an amount to be determined from
time to time by the city where the street surface involved is oiled or
unimproved and where the street surface involved is otherwise improved to
insure the proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement or other
improved surface, if any. From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to
the city of relaying the surface by the city if at its expense, and the balance
shall be returned to the applicant without interest after the tunnel or
excavation is completely refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
These deposits shall be made whether the work to be done is done by city
employees or otherwise.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.040) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
§ 92.049 BARRICADING REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.050) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.050 EXCAVATION METHODS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way contrary to
or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper bracing shall be
maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining grounds, and in excavations,
the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any portion which
extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavation or tunnel; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the city department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree, shrub or
roots thereof.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.060) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.051 TEMPORARY SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which is safe for travel and convenient for users.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.070) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
§ 92.052 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLETION OF EXCAVATION.
   Such application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated
will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the
surface of the ground or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be
put on by the city if the city restores such pavement. It is unlawful to fail
to comply with this time limitation unless permission for an extension of time
is granted by the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.080) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.053 RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley or public place in the city shall restore the
surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   If the excavation or opening has necessitated an opening in a
pavement, the refill shall be properly made so that the surface pavement can be
relaid by the city in the same manner, thickness and character as the
surrounding pavement. Notice shall be given to the City Clerk when such opening
is prepared for pavement, and the pavement shall be laid by the city, either by
contract or by city employees. In either event, the surface relaid may extend
for at least one foot in every direction beyond the original opening.
   (C)   An accurate account of the expense and cost of relaying such pavement
shall be kept, and this amount shall be deducted from the cash deposit
mentioned in §
92.048 before the balance is returned.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.090) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.054 SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall from time to time inspect all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley or
other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours before
the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.100) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
§ 92.055 REMOVAL OF RUBBLE REQUIRED; BACKFILLING MATERIALS.
   (A)   All dirt and rubble obtained in excavating in any street or alley
shall be removed from the site.
   (B)   Sand only shall be used in backfilling any excavation in any street or
alley or other public thoroughfare.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.110) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.056 UNNECESSARY OBSTRUCTION BY MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   No contractor, builder or other person shall encumber or obstruct any
street, avenue, alley or sidewalk within the city with any building material
without the consent of the Superintendent of Streets; nor, in any case, and
then for a short time only, encumber or obstruct more than one-third of the
driveway portion of any street, avenue or alley or one-half of any sidewalk;
nor shall such obstructions continue in any case longer than may be necessary
in the diligent erection of such building or the prompt execution of the work.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.120) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.057 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   Penalty. Whoever places, throws, leaves or causes to be placed, thrown
or left any obstructions or encumbrance in or upon any street, avenue or alley
within the city, except as authorized by ordinance, shall be subject to the
penalty as provided in §
92.999.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.130)
   (B)   Removal authority. Whenever any street, avenue or alley is obstructed
by vehicles, animals or persons, any member of the Police Department may give
such orders and directions as shall be deemed necessary to abate the
obstruction; and whoever shall neglect or refuse to obey such orders shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in §
92.999.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.140)
   (C)   Removal by city; method. 
      (1)   If the owner of any building, fence or other structure which
extends into or encroaches upon any street, avenue, alley or sidewalk within
the city does not remove the same promptly, he or she shall be subject to a
penalty as provided in §
92.999.
      (2)   The City Council may direct the Chief of Police or Superintendent
of Streets to take down and remove such obstruction or encroachment upon any
street, avenue, alley or sidewalk, and the cost and expense of such taking down
and removal may be collected by suit in the name of the corporation against the
person or persons maintaining, causing or erecting such encroachment or
obstruction.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.150)
(Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.058 REMOVAL OF MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dig, remove or carry away any earth, sand, gravel, stone,
sod, turf or other material from any street, avenue, alley or public place
within the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.160) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.059 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
92.999.
(‘82 Code, § 12.06.170) (Ord. 751, passed - -80)
SIDEWALK REPAIR
§ 92.075 DECLARATION OF NECESSITY.
   It is determined by the City Council that it is in the best interests of the
public welfare of the residents of the city that damaged sidewalks or sidewalks
that have fallen into disrepair be repaired, and that the repair of the
sidewalks shall be regulated by this subchapter.
(‘82 Code, § 12.12.010) (Ord. 731, passed - -78; Am. Ord. 894, passed 12-6-88;
Am. Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.076 REMOVAL OF DAMAGED SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks which have fallen into disrepair or have been damaged may be
removed and replaced by the Public Works Department.
(‘82 Code, § 12.12.020) (Ord. 894, passed 12-6-88; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-
03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.077 REPLACEMENT SIDEWALK - SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks shall be installed, replaced or repaired according to
specifications established by the city. The minimum width in all areas shall be
four feet and the minimum thickness shall be four inches. Expansion joints
shall be mandatory every 28 feet at a minimum or 40 feet at a maximum. Re-bar
shall be a minimum of one-half inch in diameter. Material used to construct the
sidewalk shall be concrete, with a 4000 pound per square inch six bag mix
minimum.
(‘82 Code, § 12.12.030) (Ord. 894, passed 12-6-88; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-
03)
§ 92.078 REPLACEMENT SIDEWALK - MATERIAL COST TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   The owner of property abutting the sidewalk being repaired shall sign an
agreement and payment must be made prior to work being performed. The owner
shall pay all cost for material and labor used in the construction of the
replacement of the sidewalk. No sidewalks will be repaired without a signed
agreement with the city. The owner of the property agrees to pay a maintenance
fee for the installation of the replacement sidewalk in an amount determined
according to the schedule of fees on file and available for public inspection
in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 12.12.040) (Ord. 894, passed 12-6-88; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-
03)
§ 92.079 SIDEWALKS IN DISREPAIR — PRIORITY.
   (A)   After notification and signed agreement between the owner and the
city, the sidewalk will be assigned a priority based on the severity of damage
or need of repair and the work scheduled by the PWD according to the following
order:
      (1)   High priority. Complete replacement, two inches or more in
differential.
      (2)   Medium priority. Sectional replacement, two inches or more in
differential.
      (3)   Low priority. Complete/sectional replacement, cracked or broken.
   (B)   High priority sidewalk owners will be sent a letter after which they
have one year to sign an agreement to repair the sidewalk and the repair must
be completed in two years.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.080 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction of sidewalks shall be the responsibility of the owner/
developer and comply with specifications of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.081 PROGRAM DATES/RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The city's sidewalk program will begin each year on or about May 1 and end
on or about October 1, weather permitting, and will be scheduled by the Public
Works Director. The city will not replace sidewalks on private property. The
city will maintain a file on homeowners who call for sidewalk replacement and
continue to prioritize on an ongoing basis.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.082 BARRIERS REQUIRED.
   All sidewalk work in progress or newly finished, or for which any excavation
has been made, shall be surrounded and efficiently protected by ample and
sufficient barriers.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.083 UNNECESSARY OBSTRUCTION BY MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of every sidewalk builder to so place the materials and
tools and other equipment required for construction of any sidewalk in such a
manner and place to not occupy any greater portion of the streets, avenues, or
public places of the city than is absolutely necessary in properly carrying on
the work and shall take such means as may be necessary to prevent the
obstruction of any gutter in any such street or avenue.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.084 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   Pursuant to authority granted to the city by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, no person
or entity shall obstruct sidewalks in the city in any manner or with any
material, including snow, dirt, sand, rock and gravel, that impedes the flow of
pedestrian traffic thereon or that creates any hazardous conditions endangering
pedestrian traffic thereon.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.085 UNNECESSARY OCCUPATION BY TOOLS AND MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of every sidewalk builder, as soon as the builder has
completed the construction of any sidewalk, to immediately remove tools,
equipment, and all surplus material. The builder shall not deliver tools,
equipment or materials to the location of any such sidewalk for any unnecessary
or unreasonable length of time in advance of the commencement of such work.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.086 LANDSCAPING FINISHED SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the person or persons replacing or
constructing the sidewalk to return the surrounding area as close as possible
to its original condition.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.087 MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALK; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The maintenance and repair of all sidewalks, including the cost of
such maintenance and repair, shall be the sole responsibility of the owner of
the property abutting the sidewalk. The city and the state shall not be
considered abutting property owners.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the abutting property
to keep the sidewalk in such a state of repair so as to ensure safe travel
thereon.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
§ 92.088 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND REPAIRS.
   If the owner of the abutting property to the sidewalk fails, refuses or
neglects to comply with the requirements for repairs or maintenance provided in
this subchapter, the city may proceed to complete the repairs or maintenance of
the sidewalk and pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, may require payment of the
whole or any part of the cost thereof by the abutting property owner.
(Ord. 1207, passed 4-15-03)
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 92.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs) which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the roadway
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
(‘82 Code, § 12.16.010) (Ord. 655, passed - -73)
§ 92.091 ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause to be
erected, to retain or cause to be retained an encroachment within the limits of
the roadway right-of-way.
(‘82 Code, § 12.16.020) (Ord. 655, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 92.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 92.105 PERMIT; APPLICATION, FEE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall construct a driveway for vehicles or
animals across any sidewalk in the city without having first obtained a permit
therefor from the Council. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall be accompanied by an amount to be determined from time to
time by the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.20.010)
§ 92.106 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
   (B)   It is unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway, where the
same crosses the sidewalk, constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery or hazardous to pedestrians or to have the grade of the sidewalk be
other than level.
(‘82 Code, § 12.20.020)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.107 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   It is the duty of the person, firm or corporation maintaining any such
driveway to keep the same free from snow and ice and to keep it in good repair
and free from opening and obstructions.
(‘82 Code, § 12.20.030)
Penalty, see § 92.999
SIGNS; AWNINGS
§ 92.120 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard
or rigid canopy over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way without
having first obtained a permit therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 12.28.010)
§ 92.121 MINIMUM HEIGHTS.
   The lowest part of any such canopy, sign or any nonrigid awning, or any
support thereof, shall be at least seven feet above the level of the walk or
public way over which it extends, but no such sign shall be maintained over any
public way used by vehicles if any part of the sign or its support is less than
15 feet above the level of such public way.
(‘82 Code, § 12.28.020)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.122 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All signs or canopies extending over any public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there is
no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or of falling from any
cause.
(‘82 Code, § 12.28.030)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.123 POLICE CHIEF INSPECTION DUTY; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   It is the duty of the Chief of Police to inspect or cause to be inspected at
regular intervals every sign, canopy or awning which extends over any public
way. If any such sign is insecure, he or she shall report this to the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which the sign is located. If the sign is not
made secure within ten days after such notice, it may be torn down on order of
the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.28.040)
SUBSTREET OR SIDEWALK SPACE
§ 92.135 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to construct or maintain any vault, space, room or other
structure under any street, alley or sidewalk without having first obtained a
permit therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 12.32.010)
§ 92.136 APPLICATION PROCEDURE; BOND.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be
accompanied by an amount to be determined from time to time by the city and by
a bond or indemnity policy, with corporate surety in the sum of $10,000
conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss or damage or liability that may
result from the construction or maintenance of such vault, room or structure.
Each application shall show thereon the size of such structure and the purpose
for which it is intended to be used.
(‘82 Code, § 12.32.020)
§ 92.137 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS; MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   Such vaults, spaces, rooms or structures shall be so constructed as to
support the sidewalk or street over them with a maximum load which the street
or sidewalk will carry, plus a margin of safety of 50%, and the person
maintaining such a structure shall keep the street or sidewalk over such
structure in good repair.
(‘82 Code, § 12.32.030)
WEIGHT LIMITS
§ 92.150 CONDITIONS.
   During any time of the year when the streets are in danger of damage by use
of vehicles operating with the weight limits described in section § 92.151,
whether by reason of deterioration of the streets, rain, snow, frost leaving
the ground or other conditions, the city may restrict the use of vehicles and
may reduce the permissible weight limits or load limits upon any streets of the
city.
(Ord. 989A, passed 2-1-94)
Cross reference:
   Weight limits, see
Ch. 71, Sch. V
§ 92.151 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Mayor, notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in this
subchapter, may issue a written special permit, at his or her sole discretion,
to anyone upon application and a showing of good cause and taking into
consideration the condition of the particular streets requested, authorizing
the applicant to use certain city streets or a portion thereof, temporarily,
for a specific trip or series of trips. In addition, the Mayor may require such
security as he or she deems necessary to compensate for injury to the streets
prior to granting such temporary permit.
(Ord. 989A, passed 2-1-94)
§ 92.152 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor may declare, at any time when conditions as described in §
92.150 are present, in his or her sole discretion, that the load limit or
permissible weight limit on any streets shall be reduced to the following gross
weight:
   Two axles, single rear tires:            7,000 pounds
   Two axles, dual rear tires:            18,000 pounds
   Three (3) or more axles, dual rear/trailer      33,000 pounds
   For all vehicles, the maximum axle load per axles shall not exceed 11,000
pounds.
   (B)   The above restrictions shall apply immediately upon the declaration by
the Mayor of which streets or areas of streets shall be subject to the above
weight limits and at such time as signs have been erected designating the
provisions of this section at each end of the affected portion of each street.
The above restriction shall apply for a total period of not to exceed 120 days
in any one calendar year.
(Ord. 989A, passed 2-1-94)
Penalty, see § 92.999
VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 92.160 VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be established and shall be
followed by the City Council in determining whether or not to vacate any street
or alley in the city:
   (A)   If the Council determines that the public interest of the city will be
served thereby, the Council may adopt an ordinance to vacate a street or alley
or a part thereof, upon an affirmative vote of three-fourths of the aldermen
then holding office, during a regular or special Council meeting.
   (B)   All ordinances, resolutions, and motions of the Council relating to
this section shall comply with all laws of the state governing the vacation of
streets and alleys by a municipality.
   (C)   Any request for vacation of a street or alley by any person or entity
other than the city shall follow the procedure set forth below:
      (1)   The applicant shall make a verbal request to the City
Administrator. The City Council shall review the request and shall vote to
either recommend or deny the request (“preliminary vote”). No Alderman shall be
bound to vote for or against an ordinance granting a vacation based upon the
preliminary vote.
      (2)   After the preliminary vote, the applicant may file a written
petition requesting the vacation of a street or alley which petition shall
include the following:
         (a)   A filing fee in the amount of $60.
         (b)   A complete description and accurate map of the area to be
vacated.
         (c)   The reason for the request.
         (d)   A statement listing all public utilities located in the proposed
area to be vacated.
      (3)   If the City Council denies the application, the filing fee shall be
refunded if the majority of the Council had voted in favor of the vacation at
the preliminary vote.
      (4)   The City Council shall determine the estimated fair market value of
the street or alley requested to be vacated at its sole cost and expense.
   (D)   The petitioner shall be required to contact JULIE or its successor or
equivalent to locate all underground public utilities in the proposed area to
be vacated.
   (E)   The Council shall determine by majority vote whether or not a notice
of the vacation of the street or alley shall be published at least once in the
Fulton Journal not less than 15 days before the meeting to be held to pass the
ordinance to vacate the street or alley. No publication notice shall be
required unless required by state law or required by Council action.
   (F)   No vacation ordinance shall become effective until the owners of all
property or the owners of a particular parcel or parcels of property abutting
upon the street or alley, or part thereof so vacated, shall pay compensation in
an amount which, in the judgment of the Council, shall be the fair market value
of the property acquired or of the benefits which will accrue to them by reason
of that vacation.
   (G)   If any public service facilities located in, under, over, or upon such
street or alley, or any part thereof, or in the judgment of the city public
service facilities may be installed anytime in the future, the ordinance may
reserve to the city or to any public utility, as the case may be, owning such
facilities, such licenses, rights-of-way or easements as, in the judgment of
the city, are necessary or desirable for continuing public service by means of
those facilities now or in the future and for the maintenance, renewal and
reconstruction thereof.
   (H)   The Council shall have the authority to determine which adjoining
property owner or owners shall be permitted to obtain ownership of the area to
be vacated and what part of the area to be vacated each owner or owners shall
receive, as permitted by the Illinois Municipal Code. If the ordinance provides
that only the owner or owners of one particular parcel of abutting property
shall make payment, then the owner or owners of the particular parcel shall
acquire title to the entire vacated street or alley, or the part thereof
vacated.
   (I)   The determination by the Council that the nature and extent of the
public use or public interest to be served is such as to warrant the vacation
of any street or alley, or part thereof, is conclusive, and the passage of such
an ordinance is sufficient evidence of that determination, whether recited in
the ordinance or not. The relief to the public from further burden and
responsibility of maintaining any street or alley, or part thereof, constitutes
a public use or public interest authorizing a vacation.
(Ord. 1282, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 1459, passed 7-2-12)
PUBLIC GATHERINGS
§ 92.165 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful to hold, manage or conduct any meeting or entertainment of
any kind in the city in any premises other than a building constructed in full
compliance with the ordinances and laws pertaining thereto for auditorium,
theater or lodge room purposes, excepting in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.010)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.166 PREMISES INSPECTION REQUIREMENT.
   No such gathering or entertainment shall be held or presented in any
premises other than a building as described in §
92.165, unless such premises shall have been examined by a Fire Marshal or the
Chief of the Fire Department before the date of such gathering and found to be
free of any fire hazard and to be suitable for the purpose.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.020)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.167 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Roof.  No structure enclosed by a roof shall be used for such purpose
unless the same is constructed of nonflammable materials; provided, tents or
similar structures may be used if such canvass or other material has been
properly treated so as to render it fire-resistive.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.030)
   (B)   Exits.  
      (1)   Adequate unobstructed exits shall be provided in all premises used
for such purposes to permit rapid egress of all persons attending, and there
shall be at least two separate exits located at least 30 feet from each other.
      (2)   There shall be at least two lineal feet of doorway or exit space
for each 100 people accommodated.
      (3)   All doors or gates shall open outward and no such exit shall be so
constructed or locked that egress from the inside of the premises is blocked.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.040)
   (C)   Stands and row of seats. Any stands or rows of seats used in such
premises shall be so constructed as to be safe for the use designated and shall
be sufficiently strong to carry the same weight or stress as is required for
the construction of auditorium floors of theater buildings.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.050)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.168 ADMISSIONS IN EXCESS OF SEATING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to admit to such premises a number of people to exceed the
number of actual seats maintained for their accommodation.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.060)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.169 ADVANCE NOTICE TO CITY; COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting any meeting or gathering in
any premises other than a theater, lodge room or auditorium, constructed as
provided in §
92.165, to notify the City Clerk at least ten days in advance of such meeting,
stating the location and intended use of the premises; upon such notice, the
Fire Marshal, or such person as he or she shall designate, shall inspect the
premises to determine whether or not they comply with the provisions hereof.
Any permit for any such gathering shall be issued subject to the condition that
this subchapter be fully complied with, whether or not such condition is
embodied in such permit.
(‘82 Code, § 8.36.070)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not less than $100 and not less than $750. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The penalty for the violation of §
92.012 shall be no less than $50 plus costs for the first offense and no more
than $200 for the first offense; the minimum fine shall be $150 plus court
costs, the maximum fine being $750 plus court costs. (‘82 Code, § 12.48.020)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of §§
93.045 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Except in cases where a
different punishment is prescribed by any ordinance of the city, any person
convicted of a misdemeanor under the ordinances of the city shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $750, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of the ordinances of the city is committed,
continued or permitted by any such person, and he or she shall be punished
accordingly. (‘82 Code, § 12.06.180)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
92.150 et seq. shall be fined an amount equal to the following schedule:
         Up to and including 5,000 pounds overweight:      $500
         From 5,001 through 7,000 pounds overweight:      $600
         From 7,001 or more pounds overweight:         $750
      (2)   Bail for any violation of these sections shall be set out in an
amount equal to the amount of the fine fixed by this division of this section.
(Ord. 749, passed - -80; Ord. 751, passed - -80; Ord. 989A, passed 2-1-94; Am.
Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Permit required; application
   
93.02   Attaching sign or injuring tree or shrub
   
93.03   Tree or shrub impeding public way; trimming requirement
   
93.04   Tree or limb likely to fall on public way; removal requirement
   
93.05   Keeping poles and wires free and away from trees or shrubs
   
93.06   Attaching rope or wires to trees or shrubs prohibited
   
93.07   List of tree species permitted on city property
Dutch Elm Disease
   
93.20   City officer inspection right
   
93.21   Diseased tree declared nuisance
   
93.22   Owner abatement requirement
   
93.23   City abatement
   
93.24   Unlawful possession of diseased tree on premises in city
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful to plant or set, to cut down, remove or disturb any
tree or bush in any public street, parkway or other public place without having
first secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall be referred to and approved by the Council before issuance.
   (C)   All such planting shall be placed subject to the approval of the
Superintendent of Streets.
(‘82 Code, § 12.24.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.02 ATTACHING SIGN OR INJURING TREE OR SHRUB.
   It is unlawful to attach any sign, notice or advertisement to or to
otherwise injure any tree or shrub in any public place.
(‘82 Code, § 12.24.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.03 TREE OR SHRUB IMPEDING PUBLIC WAY; TRIMMING REQUIREMENT.
   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any street, sidewalk or other public place
in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel
shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises abutting or of the premises on
which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
(‘82 Code, § 12.24.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04 TREE OR LIMB LIKELY TO FALL ON PUBLIC WAY; REMOVAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has became likely to fall on or
across any street, sidewalk or other public place shall be removed by the owner
of the premises on which such tree grows or stands.
   (B)   If such person does not proceed to abate such nuisance within ten
days, the City Administrator shall proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an
account of the expenses of such abatement, and such expense shall be charged to
and paid by such owner or occupant.
(‘82 Code, § 12.24.040)
§ 93.05 KEEPING POLES AND WIRES FREE AND AWAY FROM TREES OR SHRUBS.
   Any person, firm or corporation which maintains poles or wires in the
streets, alleys or other public places shall, in the absence of provisions in
the franchise concerning the subject, keep such poles and wires free from and
away from any trees or shrubs in any such public places as far as may be
possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs near such poles or wires
properly trimmed so that no injury shall be done either to the trees or shrubs
or to the poles or wires by their contact.
(‘82 Code, § 12.24.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.06 ATTACHING ROPE OR WIRES TO TREES OR SHRUBS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any public
street, parkway or other public place without permission of the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.24.060)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.07 LIST OF TREE SPECIES PERMITTED ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to plant, set or permit to grow any tree or bush in any
public street, parkway or any other public place under an electrical power line
or within ten feet of any electrical power line except the species listed below
in this section and only after having first secured a written permit from the
city, to-wit:
   Redbud (Cercis Canadensis)
      “Royal Ruby”
      “Spring Snow”
      “Donald Wyman”
      “Indian Magic”
   Cornelian Cherry (Cornus mass)
   Magnolia Stellata
   Japanese Tree Lilac (Syringa Reticulata)
   (B)   It is unlawful to plant, set or permit to grow any tree or bush in any
public street, parkway or any other public place except the species listed
below and only after having first secured a written permit from the city, to-
wit:
   GROUP I: SMALL TREES (15'- 35')
   Redbud (Cercis Canadensis)
   Flowering Crab (Malus)
      “Royal Ruby”
      “Spring Snow”
      “White Candle”
      “Donald Wyman”
      “Indian Magic”
   Flowering Pear
      “Autumn Blaze”
   Cornelian Cherry (Cornus Mass)
      Magnolia Stellata
      “Royal Star”
      Japanese Tree Lilac (Syringa Reticulata)
      “Ivory Silk”
   GROUP II. MEDIUM TREES (40' - 60')
   Linden (Tilia Cordata)
      “Greenspire”
      Birch (Betula Platyphylla)
      “Whitespire”
      Honeylocust
      “Sunburst”
      “Imperial”
      “Skyline”
   Red Maple (Acer Rubrum)
      “Red Sunset”
      "Northwood”
   Freeman Maple (Acer Rubramx)
      “Armstrong”
      “Autumn Blaze”
   Norway Maple (Acer Platanoides)
      “Emerald Green”
      “Emerald Luster”
      “Royal Red”
      “Fairview”
      “Deborah”
   Black Maple (Acer Saccharum Nigra)
   Green Ash (Fraxinus)
      “Patmore”
      “Autumn Purple”
   GROUP III: LARGE TREES (59' - 70')
   Red Oak (Quercus Rubra)
   Swamp White Oak (Quercus Bicolor)
   White Oak (Quercus Alba)
   Redmond Linden (Tilea Redmond)
   Sugar or Hard Maple (Acer Saccharum)
      "Green Mountain”
   Maidenhair Tree (Ginko Biloba)
      “Saratoga”
      “Sentry”
   Katsura Tree (Cercidiphyllim Japonicum)
(Ord. 1064, passed 12-3-96)
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
§ 93.20 CITY OFFICER INSPECTION RIGHT.
   The officers, agents, servants and employees of the city are authorized and
directed to enter on and upon private property whereon there is located any elm
tree having the appearance of or suspected of being diseased with Phloem
necrosis, commonly called the dutch elm disease, for the purpose of inspecting
the suspected tree and removing therefrom samples or portions thereof to be
tested to establish whether the tree is in fact diseased.
(‘82 Code, § 8.32.010) (Ord. 538, passed - -61)
§ 93.21 DISEASED TREE DECLARED NUISANCE.
   In the event that it is determined that the tree from which the samples have
been taken is in fact diseased or infected with the dutch elm tree disease,
said tree shall be declared to be a nuisance.
(‘82 Code, § 8.32.020) (Ord. 538, passed - -61)
§ 93.22 OWNER ABATEMENT REQUIREMENT.
   The owner, occupant or agent of the parcel of land on which the diseased elm
tree exists shall remove and destroy the elm tree and shall burn the same or
shall cause the same to be removed, destroyed and burned within ten days of
notification to such owner, occupant or agent that the elm tree is in fact
diseased and infected.
(‘82 Code, § 8.32.030) (Ord. 538, passed - -61)
§ 93.23 CITY ABATEMENT.
   In all cases where the owner, occupant or agent of the parcel of land on
which the diseased elm tree is located cannot be found, or if found and
notified as aforesaid neglects or refuses to abate the same by the removal,
destruction and burning of said diseased elm tree, and in that event the owner,
occupant and agent or any of them shall be charged with those expenses which
may be incurred by the city in the removal or abatement of the diseased elm
tree as aforesaid, the expense shall be collected by the city by suit or
otherwise in addition to the fine or penalty provided in this code.
(‘82 Code, § 8.32.040) (Ord. 538, passed - -61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.24 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DISEASED TREE ON PREMISES IN CITY.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any premises in the city to permit any tree
or portion thereof infected with the dutch elm disease to remain on such
premises.
(‘82 Code, § 8.32.050) (Ord. 538, passed - -61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Regulations
   
94.01   Keeping or maintenance of animals
   
94.02   Public nuisance
   
94.03   Animal traffic hazards
   
94.04   Animal health hazard
   
94.05   Dangerous or vicious animal at large
   
94.06   Domestic animals afflicted with diseases
   
94.07   Rabies
   
94.08   Kennels
   
94.09   Cruelty to animals
   
94.10   Harboring or keeping noisy animal
   
94.11   Sanitation requirements
   
94.12   Hunting prohibited
   
94.13   Definitions
Dogs and Cats
   
94.25   Definitions
   
94.26   Dogs and cats at large; impoundment; redemption procedure
   
94.27   Tag requirement
   
94.28   Rabies inoculation requirement
   
94.29   Unspayed female dogs in season
   
94.30   Excrement
Wild or Exotic Animals
   
94.40   Definition; applicability
   
94.41   Unlawful to keep certain animals
   
94.42   Seizure
   
94.43   Violations
Administration and Enforcement
   
94.60   Official authority to kill dangerous animals
   
94.61   Impoundment
   
94.62   Reclamation of animals; fees
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 94.01 KEEPING OR MAINTENANCE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the city
limits any animal of the species of horse, mule, sheep, goat, swine or poultry
without written permission of the City Council. Any operating farm shall be
allowed to maintain livestock if the farm exists on the date of this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or allow to be kept on the
premises owned, occupied or lawfully controlled by such person within the city
more than four dogs or four cats or four other domesticated animals or any
combination of dog, cats, or animals of the age of six months or older.
Domesticated animals shall not include birds or fish.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, it shall be lawful to keep a
newborn litter totaling more than four dogs or four cats or four other
domesticated animals for a period of six months from date of birth of such
litter. Six months from the date the litter is delivered, the person shall
comply with the limitations described in this section.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, it shall be lawful to keep
or maintain more than four dogs or four cats or four other domesticated animals
or any combination of dogs, cats, or animals, if such person is a licensed
kennel or animal hospital validly located in the city pursuant to city
ordinances or the person has obtained written permission from the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.010) (Ord. 685, passed - -75; Ord. 785, passed - -82; Ord.
1305, passed 3-6-06) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit or allow any animal of the species
listed in §
94.01 to become a public nuisance.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.020) (Ord. 685, passed - -75; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 ANIMAL TRAFFIC HAZARDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit or allow any animal of the species
listed in §
94.01 to run at large within the city or to become a traffic hazard in the
city.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.030) (Ord. 685, passed - -75; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ANIMAL HEALTH HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit or allow any animal of the species
listed in §
94.01 to become in any way a threat to the health or welfare of any person.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.040) (Ord. 685, passed - -75; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit or allow any dangerous or vicious
animal to run at large within the city.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.070) (Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DOMESTIC ANIMALS AFFLICTED WITH DISEASES.
   It is unlawful for any person to allow any animal afflicted with any
contagious or infectious disease to run at large or to be exposed in any public
place whereby the health of man or animal may be affected; nor shall any such
animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except
under the supervision of the Chief of Police or the appropriate health officer.
However, if any such animal be impounded under the provisions of this chapter
and not timely claimed, the Chief of Police shall destroy the animal and
properly dispose of the carcass.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.090) (Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 RABIES.
   (A)   Animal muzzling requirement. Whenever the Mayor by proclamation
declares that the danger from rabies is great, it shall be unlawful for any
person to permit or allow any animal upon a public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public place unless such animal is securely muzzled.
(‘82 Code, § 6.08.010)
   (B)   Police power to destroy vicious animals. It is lawful for the Chief of
Police or other police officer to kill any vicious animal at large within the
city limits when such animals cannot be safely taken up and impounded.
(‘82 Code, § 6.08.020)
   (C)   Impoundment and examination of animal.
      (1)   Whenever any animal bites any person, the owner of the animal, or
the person bitten, shall immediately notify the Chief of Police or other police
officer who shall order the animal confined on the owner's premises or shall
have it impounded for a period of two weeks.
      (2)   Any animal so confined or impounded shall be immediately examined
by a qualified veterinarian and shall be again examined by a qualified
veterinarian, in both cases at the owner's expense, at the end of the two
weeks.
      (3)   If at the end of such two-week period the veterinarian is convinced
that the animal is free from rabies, it shall be released from confinement or
impoundment.
      (4)   If during the confinement or impoundment the animal dies, its head
shall be sent to the Department of Health for examination for rabies.
      (5)   Upon notification of an animal bite, the Chief of Police or other
police officer shall fill out an animal bite report and forward it to the
county animal control office.
(‘82 Code, § 6.12.030)
(Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 KENNELS.
   (A)   License; fee; sanitation requirement. 
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a kennel or place for
raising, training or boarding of dogs or cats for hire or profit in the city
without first securing a license therefor.
      (2)   The annual fee for such license shall be an amount to be determined
from time to time by the city.
      (3)   Every owner or operator of a kennel or place for the raising,
training or boarding of dogs or cats for profit shall cause the same to be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition at all times and shall permit the health
officer to inspect or cause to be inspected said kennel at any reasonable time.
(‘82 Code, § 6.12.010)
   (B)   Frontage consent requirement in residential district. No person shall
maintain, conduct or operate any such kennel within a residential district of
the city without first securing the written consent of those persons owning
residential property within 500 feet of the proposed kennel.
(‘82 Code, § 6.12.020)
(Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to inhumanely beat, underfeed, overload or
abandon any animal in the city.
(‘82 Code, § 6.20.010) (Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 HARBORING OR KEEPING NOISY ANIMAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal which disturbs
the peace by making loud noises.
(‘82 Code, § 6.20.020) (Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow any place where any animals
are kept to become unclean, unwholesome or odoriferous.
(‘82 Code, § 6.20.040) (Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage within the city in the killing,
hunting or trapping of any animal without first obtaining the written
permission of the Public Safety Committee.
(‘82 Code, § 6.20.050) (Ord. 785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A person who is physically and mentally capable of
managing and controlling a dog, which is in his or her responsibility while on
or off their premises.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog which, when unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended
by its owner or a member of its owner's family, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack upon any
street, sidewalk or any public or private property within the city.
      (2)   The county animal control administrator, or his or her duly
authorized representative, or a law enforcement officer, shall make the
determination that a dog is a DANGEROUS DOG, after an investigation has been
conducted.
      (3)   The finding will be made in writing, and shall be hand delivered to
the owner or person keeping the dog, or delivered by both certified mail and by
first class mail to their last known address through the U.S. Postal Service.
Delivery by certified mail shall be considered properly delivered if the
certified mail is returned to the city with a notation that delivery was
refused or unclaimed.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dangerous dog to
leave the premises of its owner when the dog is not securely muzzled and
restrained with a leash having a tensile strength of no less than 300 pounds
and not exceeding three feet in length, and under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog.
      (5)   Any dog defined as a dangerous dog under the Illinois Animal
Control Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5.
   DIRECT CONTROL. The immediate, continuous physical control of a dog by means
of a leash and controlled by a person, or a secure fence, or enclosure of such
strength to restrain the dog, or safe and secure restraint within a vehicle.
Electronic underground fences, ("Invisible Fence") will not be permitted as a
direct control device. DIRECT CONTROL shall not apply to law enforcement K-
9 participating in training or in the course of their official duties. A dog
will be considered "under adequate restraint" if it's owner or owner's
representative maintains control by means of a leash, not more than three feet
long.
   LEASH. A chain or other physical restraint having a tensile strength of not
less than 300 pounds.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of a strong, soft material or of metal,
designed to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from
biting any person or other animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any dog or animal found off the owner's premises, which is
not accompanied by the owner or representative of the owner, and is not
restrained by a leash or other physical restraint or otherwise directly
controlled so that it may not enter upon the property of others.
   STRAY. Any animal, which is running at large and for which there is no owner
present, or ownership cannot be determined.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or attacks a
human being or other animal either on public or private property.
      (2)   Any individual dog with known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack without provocation, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or other animals.
      (3)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a dangerous dog upon
three separate occasions.
      (4)   Any dog defined as a vicious dog under the Illinois Animal Control
Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5.
      (5)   No dog shall be deemed vicious if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it, or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement.
      (6)   Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is specific
as to breed, unless permitted by the State of Illinois Animal Control Act.
      (7)   The county animal control administrator or his or her duly sworn
representative or a law enforcement officer shall make the determination that a
dog is a VICIOUS DOG as defined in this section, after an investigation has
been conducted.
      (8)   The finding will be made in writing and shall be hand delivered to
the owner or person keeping the dog, or delivered by both certified mail and by
first class mail to their last known address through the U.S. Postal Service.
Delivery by certified mail shall be considered properly delivered if the
certified mail is returned to the city with a notation that delivery was
refused or unclaimed. At the same time an impoundment order will be delivered
to the owner or keeper of the dog. (Impoundment means taken into custody of the
pound, which is operated by the county.)
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog
which has been found to be a vicious dog anywhere within the corporate limits
of the city, regardless of the conditions of the animal's enclosure, restraint
or controllability.
      (10)   The owner of any dog in the city which has been found to be
vicious, shall surrender the animal to the pound by order of the county animal
control administrator of his or her duly authorized representative, or the
chief of police or his or her duly authorized representative.
      (11)   If the owner of the vicious dog has not appealed the impoundment
order by filing an appropriate pleading with the Circuit Court of Whiteside
County within seven working days, the dog shall be humanely dispatched.
      (12)   Each day a person fails to comply with the provisions of this
section constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 1305, passed 3-6-06)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 94.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. Any feline three months or more of age.
   DOG. Any canine three months or more of age.
(‘82 Code, § 6.16.010)
§ 94.26 DOGS AND CATS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT ; REDEMPTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any dog or cat upon any public
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private lands, except
the private lands of the owner or caretaker of the subject animal, unless such
subject animal is secured by a leash and under the control of a person holding
such leash.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or other police officer to
capture and impound each and every dog or cat found at large and not on a leash
and without a collar, tag or muzzle. The Chief of Police shall thereupon notify
the owner of the dog or cat so taken, if the owner can be ascertained, and the
owner shall be permitted to redeem the dog or cat within ten days by paying all
license and other fees upon said animal, together with an amount to be
determined from time to time by the city for the cost of keeping such animal
and the cost of advertising, if any, to the city.
   (C)   Should no redemption be made of any dog or cat thus impounded, it
shall be the duty of the pound master to dispose of the dog or cat so
unredeemed at the end of the tenth day in the manner prescribed by the City
Council.
(‘82 Code, § 6.16.020) (Ord. 509, passed - -59; Ord. 785, passed - -82; Am.
Ord. 1003, passed - -)
§ 94.27 TAG REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit any dog to be on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place unless such dog has a collar firmly
attached around his or her neck with a license tag for the current year
attached to such collar.
(‘82 Code, § 6.16.030) (Ord. 509, passed - -59; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 RABIES INOCULATION REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit any dog which is not on a leash,
under control or muzzled to be in any public street, parkway, sidewalk, park,
in any store or place of public gathering or in any place in the city other
than in an enclosed area unless such dog has been inoculated against rabies in
compliance with the terms of the Animal Control Act of the state of Illinois.
(‘82 Code, § 6.16.040) (Ord. 509, passed - -59; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 UNSPAYED FEMALE DOGS IN SEASON.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any female dog in season to permit or allow
said dog to run at large, or to confine her as to attract male dogs to the area
and by their presence cause a nuisance. The owner shall keep and confine the
female dog in a place where male dogs will not be attracted thereto or shall
place the female dog at a kennel providing care and keep during the time the
female is in season.
(‘82 Code, § 6.16.050) (Ord. 509, passed - -59; Ord. 591, passed - -66; Ord.
785, passed - -82) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 EXCREMENT.
   (A)   Dog excrement. It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit any dog
owned by him or her to defecate on any property, public or private, not owned
by the owner unless the owner has in his or her possession a device for
excrement removal and the owner immediately removes any excrement from such
property to a receptacle on property owned, occupied, or lawfully controlled by
the owner.
   (B)   Cat excrement. It shall be unlawful for any cat owner to permit any
cat excrement to remain on any property, public or private, not owned by the
cat owner upon notification to the cat owner by the person owning, occupying,
or lawfully in control of such property that the owner's cat has defecated on
such property. Upon such notification, the cat owner shall immediately remove
the excrement from such property to a receptacle on property owned, occupied,
or lawfully controlled by said cat owner.
(Ord. 1305, passed 3-6-06) Penalty, see §
94.99
WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 94.40 DEFINITION; APPLICABILITY.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous lion, tiger,
leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cougar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, lynx, bobcat,
jaguarundi, bear, hyena, wolf, coyote, elephant, nonhuman primate or any
hybrids thereof. A DANGEROUS ANIMAL can also mean any reptile or fish over six
feet in length or reptile or fish that is poisonous or life threatening.
   ENDANGERED SPECIES. A species of animal in danger of becoming extinct as
listed by the United States Government or Illinois State Department of
Agriculture.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL. A dangerous animal, endangered species or any animal
which is not commonly considered a domestic animal. An animal which is normally
classified as dangerous or endangered cannot be redefined as a domestic animal
by an attempt by any person to domesticate a dangerous animal or endangered
species.
(Ord. 1089, passed 9-1-98)
§ 94.41 UNLAWFUL TO KEEP CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to own, have a right of
property in, keep, harbor, care for, act as custodian of or maintain in his or
her possession or on his or her property any dangerous, wild or exotic animal,
fish, reptile or endangered species, hereinafter collectively referred to as a
"wild animal.”
(Ord. 1089, passed 9-1-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.42 SEIZURE.
   If there appears to be imminent danger to the public by reason of a possible
violation of this subchapter, in the sole discretion of any officer of the
Police Department or any law enforcement officer with jurisdiction in the city,
any wild animal found not in compliance with the provisions of this Act shall
be subject to immediate seizure by such law enforcement officer or their
designated agent, and may immediately be placed in a facility and all costs
connected with the seizure, confiscation and boarding of such animal shall be
the responsibility of any person found to own, have a right of property in,
kept, harbor, care for, act as custodian of or maintain in their possession or
on their property, any wild animal as defined under this subchapter.
Furthermore, such person shall be responsible for any costs or reasonable
attorneys fees that may be incurred by the city in collecting from such person
the costs connected with such seizure, confiscation and boarding of any wild
animal.
(Ord. 1089, passed 9-1-98)
§ 94.43 VIOLATIONS.
   Upon the conviction of a person for a violation of this section, the wild
animal with regard to which the conviction was obtained shall be confiscated
and placed in a facility (if not previously confiscated and placed), and the
owner thereof and the person convicted shall be responsible for a costs
connected with the seizure and confiscation of such wild animal and the
boarding of such wild animal from date of seizure to the date the wild animal
is no longer boarded for the person so convicted, all in addition to any other
penalty permitted by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1089, passed 9-1-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.60 OFFICIAL AUTHORITY TO KILL DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Any police officer of the city is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of
any kind when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property.
(‘82 Code, § 6.20.030) (Ord. 785, passed - -82)
§ 94.61 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Chief of Police or any other police officer is empowered to summarily
impound any animal in violation of this chapter and to hold said animal for a
period of ten days, after which the animal may be sold or destroyed as within
the discretion of the Chief of Police, should the Chief of Police deem
necessary.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.050) (Ord. 685, passed - -75; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
§ 94.62 RECLAMATION OF ANIMALS; FEES.
   The owner of any animal so impounded may reclaim the animal upon payment of
all costs incurred by the city plus a reclamation fee which shall be determined
from time to time by the city for each such impoundment.
(‘82 Code, § 6.04.060) (Ord. 685, passed - -75; Ord. 785, passed - -82)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense.
The minimum fine for each subsequent offense of any violation of this chapter
shall provide for an increase in the minimum fine of $100 for each subsequent
offense, but not more than $750. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1368, passed 4-7-08; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Abandoned vehicle prohibited; notification of police
   
95.03   Authorization for removal
   
95.04   Removal by authorized towing service
   
95.05   Towed vehicle; records
   
95.06   Record search
   
95.07   Notification of state police of inability to identify owner
   
95.08   Reclamation of vehicle by owner
   
95.09   Sale of unclaimed vehicle
   
95.10   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
95.11   Liability limitation
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the city.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.010) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.02 ABANDONED VEHICLE PROHIBITED; NOTIFICATION OF POLICE.
   (A)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part
thereof, on any highway in this city is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part
thereof, on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the
general public anywhere in this city is unlawful, except on property of the
owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle for a period of not more than three
months.
   (C)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part thereof, so abandoned on
private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the
Chief of the Police Department of the city, after a waiting period of seven
days or more has expired.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.020) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.03 AUTHORIZATION FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of the Police Department
shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the
abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle.
   (C)   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents
and maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or
any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed
of as provided in this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.030) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.04 REMOVAL BY AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this city ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this city.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this city.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this city, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.040) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.05 TOWED VEHICLES; RECORDS.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away,
the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle.
   (B)   The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.050) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.06 RECORD SEARCH.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
Illinois State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois State Police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be used by the Police Department in sending a notification
by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the
vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.060) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.07 NOTIFICATION OF STATE POLICE OF INABILITY TO IDENTIFY OWNER.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the Illinois State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois
State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having
custody of the vehicle for notification of owner.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.070) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.08 RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE BY OWNER.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in this chapter, the owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police
Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this
section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.080) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.09 SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Seven years old or newer. 
      (1)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police
Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the Police
Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
      (3)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due
to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.090)
   (B)   Older than seven years.
      (1)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or older cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of
the registered owner by the United States Mail, public service or in person for
a determination of disposition and an examination of the Illinois State Police
stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
      (3)   At the expiration of the ten day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owners, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
      (4)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle
is excluded from this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.100)
   (C)   Record of transaction. When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the
custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other
legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction
will be maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the
date of the sale or disposal.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.110)
(Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.10 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this city is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
city treasury.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.120) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
§ 95.11 LIABILITY LIMITATION.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner or his or her legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 10.40.130) (Ord. 647, passed - -71)
CHAPTER 96: RIVERFRONT BOATING FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Public landing defined
   
96.02   Harbormaster; powers and duties
   
96.03   Assigning spaces
   
96.04   Docking fees
Permits
   
96.15   Construction and maintenance of facilities; permit required
   
96.16   Permit application
   
96.17   Permit transfer
   
96.18   Permit revocation
   
96.19   Maintaining structure or docking vessel without permit deemed nuisance
Regulations
   
96.30   Removal of sunken boats
   
96.31   River craft operational regulations
   
96.32   Stray vessels or other property
   
96.33   Boat launching and hauling
   
96.34   Damage to public property
   
96.35   Closed areas
   
96.36   Tampering with moorings
   
96.37   Docking or making fast to other vessel; permission requirement
   
96.38   Tying up vessel
   
96.39   Location of docking and launching facilities
   
96.40   Parking
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 PUBLIC LANDING DEFINED.
   All that part of the riverfront between Eighteenth Avenue and Avenue D in
the city is set apart for levee purposes to be used only as a public landing
and a public levee.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.010) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
§ 96.02 HARBORMASTER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall be ex officio harbormaster and shall
have general control and supervision of the public landings and shall preserve
order at all times in and about the same, and he or she is given the power to
deputize any regularly appointed police officer to perform any and all duties
dedicated to such harbormaster.
   (B)   The authority of the harbormaster shall extend over all the land set
apart for public landings and over that portion of the Mississippi River to the
middle of the main channel thereof, situated immediately westerly of all lands
owned by the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.020) (Ord. 630, passed - -69; Am. Ord. 1511, passed 8-18-14)
§ 96.03 ASSIGNING SPACES.
   The harbormaster shall, whenever he or she may deem it necessary, assign
places for all boats, barges, rafts and vessels of whatever kind, and every
person in charge thereof shall cause the same to be moored at or removed to the
place assigned therefor; provided, no boat, barge or raft shall be compelled to
leave its assigned place while receiving or discharging cargo.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.030) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.04 DOCKING FEES.
   Docking fees will be charged on the following classifications of vessels:
   (A)   Vessels less than 16 feet in length, an amount to be determined from
time to time by the city;
   (B)   Vessels 16 feet and over and less than 26 feet in length, an amount to
be determined from time to time by the city;
   (C)   Vessels 26 feet and over and less than 40 feet in length, an amount to
be determined from time to time by the city;
   (D)   Vessels 40 feet and over and less than 55 feet in length, an amount to
be determined from time to time by the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.150) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
PERMITS
§ 96.15 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or agency shall build, maintain, extend or make structural
alterations on any building, pier, piling, bulkhead or other structure in, upon
or over the waters of the Mississippi River adjacent to property owned by the
city where the tide ebbs and flows adjacent to the city or do any filling,
excavating or dredging in the waters or establishing, using or constructing any
launching facility, temporary or permanent, without first obtaining a written
permit to do so from the city. Further, the use of any riverfront docking or
launching facilities governed by this chapter shall be authorized only through
a written permit granted by the harbormaster to the individual vessel owners or
users with the permit designating the assigned docking area.
   (B)   The necessity above designated shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   A permit would not be required for those individuals launching a
boat only at the designated site or sites.
      (2)   The permit or permits issued for the placing, building or extending
any structures whatsoever into the riverfront waters designated herein shall
terminate on the first of November of each year at which time all emplacements
of other than a permanent nature and other than improved by the city shall be
removed from the waters.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.140) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
§ 96.16 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for permit or transfer of any permit required by this
chapter shall be made to the harbormaster in writing on forms provided
therefor. The permits shall constitute an agreement by the permittee to comply
with all conditions imposed in the granting of the permit.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by plans and specifications
setting forth in detail the work to be done.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by the required fee in an amount
established by the City Council by resolution. The fee shall not be returnable
by the city to the applicant whether or not the permit is granted.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.170) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
§ 96.17 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   No person or organization shall transfer a permit on a pier, float or
similar structure granted under the provisions of this chapter without prior
written approval of this city.
   (B)   No person who as an abutting upland owner or lessee of real property
was granted a permit for a pier, float or similar structure shall retain any
right of use in such pier, float or similar structure after having divested
himself or herself of the ownership or leasehold interest in such real
property.
   (C)   Upon such divesting, the ownership interest in the pier, float or
similar structure shall remain with the person to whom the permit was granted,
but the right of use thereof shall vest in the city until such time as a permit
for such pier, float or structure is granted to another person.
   (D)   Except where rights of ownership have heretofore been judicially
decreed, no person may heretofore or hereafter gain any rights of ownership or
use of any such pier, float or similar structure by any purported transfer made
without such prior written approval of the city.
   (E)   The harbormaster is authorized to approve transfers of permits or in
his or her discretion may refer the same to the City Council for approval.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.160) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
§ 96.18 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds of revocation of any permit heretofore or hereafter granted
for any structure or work docking in the area designated by this chapter may be
revoked by the City Council upon any of the following grounds:
      (1)   The work or structure has become detrimental to commerce,
navigation or fishing;
      (2)   The work or structure is detrimental to the use, operation or
development of the harbor;
      (3)   The work or structure does not comply with the permit or does not
meet the standards adopted by the City Council for such work or structure;
      (4)   The permittee has failed for a period of 60 days to pay the fee or
fees heretofore or hereafter imposed for the use and application herein
impended;
      (5)   The work or structure has fallen into a state of disrepair;
      (6)   The space occupied by such work or structure is over publically-
owned land and such space is to be devoted to public use;
      (7)   The permittee has breached or failed to comply with the terms or
conditions contained in the permit or upon which the permit was granted.
   (B)   Any such permit will be revoked only after a public hearing before the
City Council with which the permittee has an opportunity to be heard. At least
five days notice of such hearing shall be given in writing by first class mail
with postage prepaid addressed to the address of the permittee shown on such
permit, setting out the date, time and place of hearing. After such hearing,
the City Council may revoke or conditionally revoke any such permit.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.180) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
§ 96.19 MAINTAINING STRUCTURE OR DOCKING VESSEL WITHOUT PERMIT DEEMED NUISANCE.
   Every structure maintained in or over the waters of the city harbor without
a current valid permit existing therefor, and any vessel docking without the
required permit and without paying the fees as required by this chapter, shall
constitute a nuisance and shall be immediately abated and may be removed. If,
upon written notice to remove any such structure or such vessel, the owner
thereof fails, refuses or neglects to do so within a reasonable time specified
in the notice, being not less than five nor more than 30 days after such
notice, the city shall abate or remove it, and the cost thereof may be
recovered from the owner of such structure from a civil action.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.190) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
REGULATIONS
§ 96.30 REMOVAL OF SUNKEN BOATS.
   If a boat or float sinks in a harbor, it shall be the duty of the owner or
owners thereof to immediately remove the same, or the wreck thereof, at their
own expense, and on their failure to do so it shall be the duty of the
harbormaster forthwith to remove the same at the expense of the owner or
owners, and the owner or owners shall be liable for the expense incurred in
such removal by the harbormaster.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.040) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
§ 96.31 RIVER CRAFT OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS.
   All river craft of whatsoever kind or nature using the facilities
encompassed in this chapter shall comply with the regulations consistent with
the type of craft as set out by the state and the United States Coast Guard
authority.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.050) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.32 STRAY VESSELS OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   All stray river vessels of whatsoever kind or nature, timber or any other
personal property found in the water or on the shore of the city facilities
described in this chapter, not in the lawful possession or control of some
other person, shall be immediately delivered up to the harbormaster. Any such
property shall be dealt with in the appropriate provisions of the statutes of
the state and the ordinances of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.060) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.33 BOAT LAUNCHING AND HAULING.
   No person shall launch or remove any vessel from the waters of the city
facilities described herein except at locations where a regular business of
launching and hauling vessels is conducted which has the necessary equipment to
do such work or in areas designated and posted for such purpose by the city
through its agents, concessionaires or licensees. The harbormaster shall have
the authority to establish fees for launching or hauling or otherwise providing
services to any boats or users of boats at all city river facilities as he
shall determine to be in his discretion to be appropriate. A fee schedule shall
be available at the office of the City Clerk and at the city facilities. The
fee schedule proposed by the harbormaster shall be approved by a majority vote
of the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.070) (Ord. 630, passed - -69; Am. Ord. 1511, passed 8-18-14)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.34 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall wilfully or carelessly destroy, damage, disturb, deface or
interfere with any buoy, float, life preserver, sign, notice, navigational
marking or other similar property under the jurisdiction of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.080) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.35 CLOSED AREAS.
   (A)   Whenever the city authority finds that public safety so requires, the
city authority may designate any water area or filled lands in or upon which
city docking facility improvement work is being performed as a closed area.
   (B)   Except for persons actually engaged in such facility improvement work
or public officers in the performance of their duty, no person shall enter or
remain within or drive or operate any vessel or water craft into or within any
area which has been so designated as a closed area and which has been posted or
marked with appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.090) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.36 TAMPERING WITH MOORINGS.
   No person shall tamper with any mooring or anchorage in the city whether or
not the same is occupied with a vessel.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.100) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.37 DOCKING OR MAKING FAST TO OTHER VESSEL; PERMISSION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No person having charge of any vessel shall make the same fast to any
pier in the city harbor or permit the same to remain at such location after
finishing loading or unloading such vessel without the consent of the owner,
agent or person in charge of any such pier.
   (B)   No person shall make fast any vessel to any other vessel already
occupying any pier, either public or private, without first obtaining
permission of the harbormaster, his or her agent, deputy, concessionaire or
licensee.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.110) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.38 TYING UP VESSEL.
   Every vessel lying in any pier in the city harbor shall be fastened thereto
with such lines at least from both bow and stern and in such a manner as to
assure the security of such vessel.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.120) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.39 LOCATION OF DOCKING AND LAUNCHING FACILITIES.
   All docking and launching of boats, vessels or river craft of any kind
whatsoever into the waters of the Mississippi River adjacent to property owned
by the city shall be only at those places designated by the city through its
officers, agents, deputies, concessionaires or licensees as such launching and
docking facilities. Launching from any other point shall be considered in
violation of this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 12.36.130) (Ord. 630, passed - -69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.40 PARKING.
   The harbormaster may establish such rules and regulations as the
harbormaster deems appropriate, to regulate the parking of vehicles or boats at
the city facilities which shall include the right to establish no parking areas
or limited restricted parking areas or such other regulations as the
harbormaster deems necessary for proper use of the city facilities, including
the parking of cars, trucks, boat trailers or boats. The city shall erect
appropriate signage in order to identify the regulations the harbormaster shall
establish. A violation of this section shall carry a penalty as set forth in §
70.99.
(Ord. 1511, passed 8-18-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   RAFFLES
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
115.   SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
      
116.   HOTEL TAX
      
117.   UTILITY TAX - GAS
      
118.   COLLECTING TAXES FOR ELECTRICITY USAGE
      
119.   MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
      
120.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Auto wrecking establishments
   
110.02   Chicken hatcheries
   
110.03   Dry cleaners
   
110.04   Factories and slaughterhouses
   
110.05   Foreign fire insurance company
   
110.06   Itinerant merchant
   
110.07   Junk dealers
   
110.08   Motor transport depots
   
110.09   Pawnbrokers
   
110.10   Peddlers
   
110.11   Scavengers
   
110.12   Service stations
   
110.13   Sewer builders
   
110.14   Taxicabs
   
110.15   Used car dealers
License and Permit Procedure
   
110.30   Application
   
110.31   Official investigation
   
110.32   Preparation and filing
   
110.33   Required official signatures
   
110.34   License requirement
   
110.35   Due date of fee payment
   
110.36   Bond; surety company requirement
   
110.37   Termination date
   
110.38   Ordinance compliance requirement
   
110.39   Change of location
   
110.40   Frontage consent
   
110.41   Nuisance business prohibited
   
110.42   Premises inspection
   
110.43   Commodity analysis
   
110.44   Revocation; hearing
   
110.45   Posting requirement
Business Registration
   
110.60   Registration required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 AUTO WRECKING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment, building, premises
or other location where the business is carried on of wrecking old, used or
second-hand automobiles, or other motor vehicles, and adding or employing the
parts or accessories thereof in equipping, repairing or rebuilding motor
vehicles, or storing, selling or otherwise disposing of such parts or
accessories.
      JUNKYARD. Any land or structure used for salvaging operations, including
collecting, dismantling, storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked, scrapped,
ruined, dismantled, unlicenced or inoperative motor vehicles or vehicle parts.
(‘82 Code, § 5.18.010)
   (B)   License requirement. No automobile wrecking establishment shall be
located, maintained or operated within the city unless the owner, operator or
lessee of such establishment shall first obtain a license therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.18.020)
   (C)   License application; fee. Application shall be made in writing to the
City Clerk and shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $1000, with
such sureties as may be approved by the Council, conditioned upon the faithful
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The annual fee for such license
shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule on file and available for
public inspection in the office of the City Clerk. A corporation may be
licensed under this chapter by application made under oath by its employee who
is to manage or conduct such business. No license shall be issued to any person
who is not of good moral character.
(‘82 Code, § 5.18.030)
   (D)   Screen requirement. No automobile wrecking establishment or junkyard
shall be maintained or operated within the city unless the establishment shall
erect a screen by natural objects, plantings, fences or other appropriate means
so as not to be visible from the adjoining property, street or avenue from the
establishment.
   (E)   Screening plan. No new license under this section shall be issued
unless the appropriate screen as described herein has been installed by the
applicant. All existing licenses under this section shall submit a plan drawn
to scale indicating how screening is to be accomplished within 60 days from the
date of this section becoming effective. Such plan shall show the construction
details of the screening to be used. When fencing is used alone or in
combination with plant material, the result shall provide screening within 30
days from the date the submitted plan is approved by the city. When planting is
used alone or in combination with an earthen embankment, the number, type, size
and spacing of the plants shall be capable of screening the junk entirely from
view within five years from the date the plan is so approved. The ability of
the proposed plant material to accomplish this goal shall be judged by the
enforcing officer of the Zoning Code. The screening shall be located entirely
on the owner's land. At no time after the screen is established shall the junk
be stacked high enough to be visible above the screen. The licensee shall
maintain the screening established initially, making all necessary repairs and
maintenance to keep any fences, walls or other structural materials in good
appearance. Any plant material used as screening shall be appropriately
watered, cultivated and given any required maintenance to keep the planting in
a good healthy condition. All dead plant material shall be replaced during the
next spring or fall planting season following death. The acceptable screening
materials shall include:
      (1)   Acceptable fencing materials. Subject to the approval of the zoning
enforcing officer, acceptable fencing shall include fences of steel or other
metals, durable woods such as tide water cypress, redwood or other wood treated
with a preservative or walls of masonry. Some of the types acceptable are:
         (a)   Chain link type with aluminum, steel, plastic or wooden slat
inserts;
         (b)   Wooden types of basket weave, palisade, louver or other suitable
design;
         (c)   Walls of masonry, including plain or ornamental concrete block,
brick, stone or other suitable design.
         (d)   The types of fencing and walls in subsections (a) through (c)
are given for example only. Any other design of fencing constructed of other
materials may by submitted for consideration.
      (2)   Plant material. Plant materials indicated on the plan shall specify
the name of the plant materials used, the size at the time of planting and the
spacing between plants. All plant material shall meet the requirements
established by the American Nurserymen's Association, as shown in their
publication entitled "American Standard for Nursery Stock". All plant material
shall be taken from nurseries located within, or north of, Zone 6 of the
climatic map as shown in Rehder's "Manual of Cultivated Trees and Shrubs,"
published in 1940. A copy of this climatic map is available at any district
highway office. The minimum size of plant materials at the time of planting
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Shade trees - One and one-half Caliper.
         (b)   Multi-stem trees - Five feet in height.
         (c)   Upright evergreens - Five feet in height.
         (d)   Low growing evergreens - 18 inches in height.
         (e)   Shrubs - 18 inches in height.
   (F)   Adjoining property owner consent requirement in residential district.
No person, firm or corporation shall build, maintain, conduct or operate an
automobile wrecking establishment in any block in the city where a majority of
the houses abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used
exclusively for residence purposes without first securing the written consent
of the owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on such street on both
sides within such block and in the manner provided in this code for securing
such frontage consents; provided, however, that the provisions of this section
requiring frontage consents shall not apply to businesses already established
and doing business previous to the passage of the ordinance codified in this
section.
(‘82 Code, § 5.18.040)
   (G)   Receiving or purchasing articles from minors. A licensee, under this
section, shall not receive or purchase any article whatsoever from any minor
person without the written consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.18.050)
   (H)   Violating establishment declared nuisance. Any automobile wrecking
establishment operated in this city contrary to the terms of this chapter is a
nuisance.
(‘82 Code, § 5.18.060)
   (I)   Penalty. Failure to maintain the screening or to install the screening
in the time required herein shall result in the revocation of the business auto
wrecking establishment license and the zoning enforcing officer may apply for
an injunction to cause the owner of the establishment to provide such
maintenance or erect such screening. Any person or agent, employer or
contractor or such person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $750, and each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 909, passed 11-8-89)
§ 110.02 CHICKEN HATCHERIES.
   (A)   License requirement. It is unlawful to operate a chicken hatchery in
the city without having first secured a license therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.20.010)
   (B)   License fee. The annual fee for such license shall be as set forth in
the license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the
office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.20.020)
   (C)   Sanitation requirements. 
      (1)   Every building used for such chicken hatchery shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be thoroughly cleaned at least once in
each day;
      (2)   All refuse shall be removed from the premises at least once in each
day and properly disposed of.
      (3)   All premises shall be kept free from rodents and insects.
(‘82 Code, § 5.20.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.03 DRY CLEANERS.
   (A)   Dry cleaning defined. For the purposes of this section, “dry cleaning”
means and includes the process of cleaning fabrics by immersion or by immersion
and agitation in volatile solvents and the processes incidental thereto
including spotting and finishing.
(‘82 Code, § 5.22.010)
   (B)   License; application; investigation. No person, firm or corporation
shall maintain or operate a dry-cleaning establishment without first securing a
license therefor as required in this chapter. Applications for such license
shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be referred to the Chief of the Fire
Department. The Chief of the Fire Department shall investigate, or cause to be
investigated, the premises intended to be used and shall report the result of
such investigation to the Mayor and Council before the issuance of any such
license.
(‘82 Code, § 5.22.020)
   (C)   License; statutory compliance requirement; fee. No license shall be
issued to any person, firm or corporation not complying with all of the
provisions of this section and with all of the ordinances and statutes relating
to flammable liquids. The annual fee for such license shall be as set forth in
the license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the
office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.22.030)
   (D)   Fire and sanitation regulations. 
      (1)   No such dry-cleaning establishment shall be conducted in any frame
building.
      (2)   Smoking in such premises is expressly prohibited, and signs to this
effect shall be posted in conspicuous places in and about such establishment.
All premises used for such dry-cleaning establishment shall be kept free from
inflammable wastes so far as possible, and it is unlawful to maintain or permit
a stove or open flame in such premises.
      (3)   No person afflicted with any contagious, infectious or venereal
disease shall be employed in any such establishment.
(‘82 Code, § 5.22.040)
   (E)   Fire Chief inspection right. The Chief of the Fire Department shall
have the right to inspect any building or premises in the city used or occupied
by any dry-cleaning establishment in order to examine the same and to determine
whether or not such premises or building, or any material, chemical or
compound, or article or fabric, or any process, used or kept therein or thereon
conforms to the ordinances and regulations of the city, or constitutes a fire
hazard. It is expressly made the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to
make such investigation at least once every six months, or cause such
investigation to be made, and to report the results of such investigation to
the Mayor and Council.
(‘82 Code, § 5.22.050)
(Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.04 FACTORIES AND SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   (A)   License; requirement. It is unlawful to maintain or operate any
rendery, tallow chandelry, soap factory, glue factory, tannery, packing plant
or slaughterhouse within the city limits, or within one mile thereof, without
first securing a license therefor as is provided in this section.
(‘82 Code, § 5.24.010)
   (B)   License; application; fee. Applications shall be made in writing and
shall be subject to the general provisions relating to applications. The annual
fee for such licenses shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule on file
and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.24.020)
   (C)   Adjoining property owner consent in residential district. No person,
firm or corporation shall locate, construct, maintain or operate any such
establishment in any block in the city where the majority of the houses
abutting on both sides of the street in such block are used exclusively for
dwelling purposes without having first secured the written consent of the
owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on both sides of the street in
the block in the manner provided in this code for the securing of such frontage
consents.
(‘82 Code, § 5.24.030)
   (D)   Nuisance business unlawful. No such business shall be so operated that
it constitutes a nuisance in fact.
(‘82 Code, § 5.24.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.05 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
   (A)   Compliance requirement. It is unlawful for any corporation or
association not incorporated under the laws of the state to engage in effecting
fire insurance or to transact any business of fire insurance in the city
without fully complying with the provisions of this section.
(‘82 Code, § 5.26.010)
   (B)   Fee. Any such corporation or association shall pay to the Treasurer
for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department a sum of money
equal to 2% of the gross receipts each year received for premiums by any and
all agents of any such corporation or association or received in any way as
premiums for fire insurance policies on any property in the city. Such payments
shall be made for the year ending the first of July of each year.
(‘82 Code, § 5.26.020)
   (C)   Premium reporting requirement. Every person acting as representative
for or on behalf of any such company or association shall, on or before the
fifteenth day of July of each year, render to the City Treasurer a full, true
and just account, verified by his or her oath, of all premiums which have been
received by him or her on behalf of the company during the year ending the
preceding July first on such fire insurance policies.
(‘82 Code, § 5.26.030)
   (D)   Due date of fee payment. All payments under the provisions of this
chapter shall be made on or before the fifteenth day of July following the
termination of the year for which such payments are due.
(‘82 Code, § 5.26.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.06 ITINERANT MERCHANT.
   (A)   License; requirement.  
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do business
in the city as an itinerant merchant without having first secured a license
therefor as provided in this section.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, any merchant engaging in or
intending to engage in business in the city for a period of time not exceeding
100 days shall be considered an itinerant merchant; provided that peddlers
shall not be considered itinerant merchants.
(‘82 Code, § 5.28.010)
   (B)   Application; contents. Every application for such license shall set
forth the items or commodities to be sold and the place intended to be occupied
or used for such business.
(‘82 Code, § 5.28.020)
   (C)   Fee; exemption. The fee for such license shall be as set forth in the
license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk. Itinerant merchants taking orders for goods to be shipped
interstate shall be exempt from paying the above license fee.
(‘82 Code, § 5.28.030)
(Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.07 JUNK DEALERS.
   (A)   License requirement. It is unlawful to operate or carry on the
business of junk dealer or to keep any junk shop, store or place for the
purchase or sale of junk, rags, old rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass,
copper or empty bottles without having obtained a license therefor as is
provided in this section.
(‘82 Code, § 5.30.010)
   (B)   License application. Applications for such licenses shall be made in
conformance with the general provisions relating to licenses.
(‘82 Code, § 5.30.020)
   (C)   Fees. The fee for such licenses shall be as set forth in the license
fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office of the
City Clerk for each vehicle used in the conduct of such business; provided that
a junk dealer not maintaining a store or yard in the city shall pay an amount
as set forth in the license fee schedule on file and available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.30.030)
   (D)   Police Department examination right. Every keeper of a junk shop who
shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles or things of value
which may have been lost or stolen shall, upon demand, produce and deliver up
such article or thing to any member of the Police Department for examination.
(‘82 Code, § 5.30.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.08 MOTOR TRANSPORT DEPOTS.
   (A)   License requirement.  
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall maintain or operate a motor
transport depot within the city without first having obtained a license
therefor.
      (2)   The term "motor transport depot" shall be construed to mean and
include either a terminal where motor transport vehicles are garaged, either in
buildings or in the open, or a place for the loading and unloading of such
motor transport vehicles, but shall not include buses or motor vehicles used
exclusively for the transportation of passengers.
(‘82 Code, § 5.32.010)
   (B)   Application; contents and fee. Applications for such licenses shall
state the proposed location of the depot, the number of vehicles expected to be
accommodated and the area of the loading or unloading platforms or depots. The
fee for such licenses shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule on file
and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.32.020)
   (C)   Statutory compliance requirement.  Every building or premises used for
such purpose shall conform to all the regulations of the city regarding such
premises and shall be equipped with adequate fire extinguishing facilities.
(‘82 Code, § 5.32.030)
   (D)   Fuel pump regulations. If fuel pumps are maintained in connection with
such motor transport depot, they shall comply with all regulations pertaining
to filling stations and flammable liquids.
(‘82 Code, § 5.32.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.09 PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   License requirement. No person, firm or corporation shall engage in
the business of a pawnbroker or operate a pawnshop without having first
obtained a license therefor or in violation of the provisions in this section.
(‘82 Code, § 5.34.010)
   (B)   Application; contents and fee.
      (1)   Applications shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state
thereon the name of the applicant, the place of business and the number of
employees intended to be engaged. No such license shall be issued to any person
who has been convicted of receiving stolen goods, of burglary or of robbery.
      (2)   The fee for such license shall be as set forth in the license fee
schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City
Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.34.020)
   (C)   Recordkeeping requirement. Every pawnbroker doing business in the city
shall keep a record of every article pledged with him or her or sold to him or
her, and such record shall be open to inspection at all times during business
hours by any police officer.
(‘82 Code, § 5.34.030)
   (D)   Sale or purchase of weapons prohibited. No pawnbroker shall receive or
purchase any pistol, revolver, black jack or sawed-off shot gun, nor shall he
or she display any such weapons for sale.
(‘82 Code, § 5.34.040)
   (E)   Age limit for issuance. No pawnbroker's license shall be issued to any
person who is less than 21 years of age, nor shall any person under such age be
employed in any pawnshop, nor shall any pawnbroker have any business dealings
with any person under 21 years of age.
(‘82 Code, § 5.34.050)
   (F)   Pawnbroker duty to report suspected stolen articles. It shall be the
duty of every pawnbroker to report to the police any article pledged with him
or her, or which it is sought to pledge with him or her, if he or she shall
have reason to believe such article was lost or stolen.
(‘82 Code, § 5.34.060)
(Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.10 PEDDLERS.
   (A)   License requirement. No person, firm or corporation shall engage in
the business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first obtained a license therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.36.010)
   (B)   Application. Applications shall be made to the City Clerk and shall
state thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be used, the kind of
article or merchandise to be peddled and the permanent address of the peddler.
(‘82 Code, § 5.36.020)
   (C)   Fees. The fees for such licenses shall be:
      For peddlers using any vehicle: As set forth in the license fee schedule
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk
      For peddlers not using any vehicle: As set forth in the license fee
schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City
Clerk.
      Peddlers selling goods which are to be shipped interstate shall be exempt
from paying a license fee.
(‘82 Code, § 5.36.030)
   (D)   Penalty for fraud or misrepresentation. Any peddler or hawker who is
guilty of any fraud or misrepresentation, whether by himself or herself or
through an employee, while acting as a peddler in the city, or who sells any
goods, wares or merchandise other than that stated in his or her license shall
be fined as provided in §
10.99 and shall have his or her license revoked.
(‘82 Code, § 5.36.040)
(Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.11 SCAVENGERS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to engage in the business of scavenger, or the collection of animal, human or
vegetable refuse, or offal, without having first secured a permit therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.38.010)
   (B)   Application. Applications for such permits shall be made to the City
Clerk, shall be referred to the Mayor and Council and shall be issued only on
order of the Mayor and City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 5.38.020)
   (C)   Vehicular requirements. Any vehicle used by such scavenger in his or
her business shall be watertight and equipped with tight covers for such
portions as are used for the transportation of refuse. It is unlawful for any
such vehicle to be driven over, through or on any street in the city on a
Sunday.
(‘82 Code, § 5.28.030)
   (D)   Unlawful disposal of refuse. It is unlawful for any scavenger to
dispose of or store any refuse any place in the city, or within one mile
thereof, except by permission of the Mayor and Council.
(‘82 Code, § 5.28.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.12 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. It is unlawful to construct or operate a service
station in the city without having first obtained a permit therefor. No such
permit shall be issued unless the location and equipment fully comply with the
ordinances of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 5.40.010)
   (B)   Service station description. A service station is any place of
business where gasoline, or any highly volatile fuels for motor vehicles for
internal combustion engines are sold or offered for sale at retail and not for
resale. However, any person, firm or corporation maintaining a storage tank for
gasoline for the use of its owner, employees or agents shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 5.40.020)
   (C)   Restrictions on dispensation of motor fuels. No motor fuels shall be
dispensed except into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles when such tanks are
directly connected to the carburetion system of such motor vehicles. However,
individual sales of not to exceed five gallons may be made in metal receptacles
when such receptacles are painted red and labeled in conformity with the
Illinois statutes.
(‘82 Code, § 5.40.030)
   (D)   Tanks; construction specifications. Tanks shall be buried so that
their tops will be not less than two feet below the surface of the ground or
beneath 12 inches of earth and a slab of reinforced concrete not less than five
inches in thickness and capable of sustaining a load of 250 pounds per square
foot. Tops of tanks shall be below the level of any piping to which tanks may
be connected. Tanks shall be so located that no vehicle can pass over them
unless protected by a reinforced concrete slab. Tanks shall not be installed
under any building or structure.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.040)
   (E)   Tanks; required clearances. Tanks shall be buried so that the tops of
the tanks shall be lower than any floor, basement or cellar of any building
within ten feet, or shall maintain ten feet clearance therefrom. Tanks shall
maintain ten feet clearance from all sewers, manholes, septic tanks, catch
basins or cesspools or shall be buried so that the tops of the tanks are lower
than such places, provided that this clearance shall not be required for sewers
if the sewer line is constructed throughout of cast iron with leaded joints.
Individual tanks shall maintain a ten foot clearance to property lines,
provided that this clearance may be waived if it can be shown that the required
sewer clearance can be maintained. Tanks and pumps shall maintain a clearance
of 100 feet to any school, hospital or church. This distance shall be measured
from the near point of the tanks or pumps to the near point of buildings.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.050)
   (F)   Tanks; certification; rustproofing. Tanks shall bear the label of
Underwriters' Laboratories or meet equivalent specifications and shall be
coated with tar, asphaltum or other rust resistant material.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.060)
   (G)   Tanks; venting. Each tank shall be properly vented to provide escape
for air and gas during filling operation.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.070)
   (H)   Fillpipes. All fillpipes shall be located outside any building and not
closer than five feet from any doorway into any building.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.080)
   (I)   Approved pumping system. Liquids shall be withdrawn from tanks by
means of approved pumps, equipped with metallic lined hose and nonferrous
nozzles and wired to conform with Article 500 of the National Electrical Code.
Any system employing continuous air pressure on any storage tank is prohibited.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.090)
   (J)   Basement and excavation prohibition; above grade floor level
requirement. No basement or other excavation under any service station building
shall be permitted, and the floor level of any such building shall be above
grade to prevent flow of liquids or vapors into the building. Floors shall be
of concrete.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.100)
   (K)   Flammable liquid storage requirements. No flammable liquid having a
flash point at or below 25°F, closed cup tester, shall be kept inside any
service station except in original sealed containers, and no transfer of these
liquids, nor alcohol, nor other flammable type anti-freeze shall be made inside
the service station from such sealed original container.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.110)
   (L)   Fire extinguishers. Each service station shall be equipped with at
least one chemical fire extinguisher suitable for oil or gasoline fires.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.120)
   (M)   Submital of drawings prior to new construction.
      (1)   Drawings or blue prints made to scale shall be limited to the Mayor
and Council and shall be approved by them before any new construction, addition
or remodeling is undertaken.
      (2)   Drawings shall carry the name of the person, firm or corporation
proposing the installation, the location and in addition shall show the plot to
be utilized and the immediate surroundings, the complete installation,
including tanks and their capacity, pumps, buildings, drives and all equipment;
clearance from tanks to property lines; location of basements on adjoining
property; location of sewers, manholes, catch basins, wells or cisterns both on
location and on adjoining property and streets or alleys; location of vent
pipes and fill pipes.
      (3)   Drawings shall be accompanied by an application for approval.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.130)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.13 SEWER BUILDERS.
   (A)   License; fee. 
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or work at the
business of building or repairing sewers without having first secured a license
therefor.
      (2)   The annual fee for such license shall be as set forth in the
license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.42.010)
   (B)   Application; bond. Every person, firm or corporation desiring such
license shall file application in writing with the City Clerk, which
application shall be accompanied by a bond or indemnity policy, with corporate
surety in the sum of $2,000, conditioned upon the compliance of the licensee
with all of the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city relating to
sewers, excavations, barricades and other things relative and incidental to
such construction, and to keep the city harmless from any loss, damage or
liability that may result from such construction or the manner of doing the
same.
(‘82 Code, § 5.42.020)
   (C)   Exceptions to provisions. No person, firm or corporation shall make
any connection with any public sewer without having secured a license as above
set forth; provided, however, this section shall not apply to members of the
Water Department or other city officials who may be authorized or required by
the city to do such work or to any person engaged by the city in the
construction of any public improvement under the supervision of proper city
officials.
(‘82 Code, § 5.42.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.14 TAXICABS.
   (A)   License; application; fee. 
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct the business of
operating a public passenger vehicle for hire, except a bus line operating on a
fixed route, without having first secured a license therefor. Applications
shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state the number of vehicles to be
operated.
      (2)   The annual fee for such license shall be as set forth in the
license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.44.010)
   (B)   Bond; minimum age requirement. No license shall issue to any person
until the applicant shall have secured the bond required by statute or to any
person under 18 years of age.
(‘82 Code, § 5.44.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.15 USED CAR DEALERS.
   (A)   License; application; fee.  
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
selling or dealing in, on consignment or otherwise, used motor vehicles without
having first obtained a license therefor. Applications shall be made in writing
to the City Clerk and shall state in addition the name of the applicant and the
location intended to be used.
      (2)   The annual fee for such license shall be as set forth in the
license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.46.010)
   (B)   Assurance; frontage consent.  
      (1)   No such license shall be issued to a person who has been convicted
of any fraudulent sale of or of any irregularity in the sale or trade of used
cars.
      (2)   No person, firm or corporation shall locate, construct or maintain
any such business in any block in the city where a majority of the houses
abutting on both sides of the street in such block are used exclusively for
dwelling purposes without having first secured the written consent of the
owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on both sides of the street in
such block in the manner provided in this code for the securing of such
frontage consents.
(‘82 Code, § 5.46.020)
   (C)   Bond. Every such person, firm or corporation shall file with the City
Clerk indemnity bonds, insurance policies or certificates of insurance issued
by a surety, indemnity or insurance company authorized to do such business
under the laws of this state, which shall insure or indemnify such applicant
for his or her liability, in the case of any automobile owned or controlled or
operated by him or her, or his or her employees, or by any person with his or
her knowledge or consent, or the knowledge or consent of his or her employees
or salesmen, in the course of his or her business or dealings as such used car
dealer, in the amount of not less than:
      (1)   In the case of injury or death to persons, $5,000 to any one person
and $10,000 for any one accident;
      (2)   In the case of property damage, $5,000.
(‘82 Code, § 5.46.030)
   (D)   New motor vehicle business exempt from provisions. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to require a license from any manufacturer or
importer of motor vehicles or his or her selling agent or subsidiary who may
buy or take in trade and sell any used motor vehicle incident to his or her new
motor vehicle business without such license.
(‘82 Code, § 5.46.040)
(Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
LICENSE AND PERMIT PROCEDURE
§ 110.30 APPLICATION.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, all applications for
licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk; each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, the time to be covered and the fee to
be paid. Each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required for the proper guidance of the city officials in the issuing of such
license or permit and shall be accompanied by the proper fee and by proper bond
if such is required for the issuance of such license or permit.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.010)
§ 110.31 OFFICIAL INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license or permit, the City Clerk shall
refer the application to the proper officer or committee for investigation or
inspection whenever an investigation or inspection is necessary before the
issuance of such license or permit within 48 hours after receiving such
application. In case no particular officer or committee is designated by
ordinance to make inspection or investigation and an inspection or
investigation is necessary, before the issuance of such license or permit, then
the Mayor may designate some capable person to make such investigation or
inspection.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.020)
§ 110.32 PREPARATION AND FILING.
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and the application therefore, may be
prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.030)
§ 110.33 REQUIRED OFFICIAL SIGNATURES.
   Each license shall bear the signature of the Mayor and the City Clerk, in
the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.040)
§ 110.34 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or herself, or through an agent, employee or partner,
he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the business or
occupation, or solicits patronage therefor actively or passively, or performs
or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in the city.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.050)
§ 110.35 DUE DATE OF FEE PAYMENT.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the City Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in a business or
occupation until after the expiration of part of the current license year, the
license fee shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or
fraction thereof during which the business or occupation has been or will be
conducted. Except as otherwise provided, all license fees shall become part of
the corporate fund.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.060)
§ 110.36 BOND; SURETY COMPANY REQUIREMENT.
   Whenever a surety bond or indemnity policy to indemnify the city is required
as a prerequisite to the issuance of any license or permit, or for the exercise
of any special privilege, the surety on such bond shall be a corporation
licensed to do business in this state as a surety company in the absence of any
provision to the contrary.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.070)
§ 110.37 TERMINATION DATE.
   All licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year of the city
where no provision to the contrary is made.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.080)
§ 110.38 ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building do not fully
comply with the requirements of the city. No such license or permit shall be
issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of any ordinance of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.090)
§ 110.39 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any
licensed business or occupation may be changed, provided ten days notice of
such change is given to the City Clerk, and provided that all building, zoning
and frontage requirements are complied with.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.100)
§ 110.40 FRONTAGE CONSENT.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of adjoining neighboring owners is required as a
prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the City
Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given shall not be withdrawn, and such petitions need
not be renewed for the continuous operation of the same business, whether by
the same owner or not.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.110)
§ 110.41 NUISANCE BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.120)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.42 PREMISES INSPECTION.
   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or to detect violations thereof, or may be desired by the Mayor or
the Council, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of
the premises, to admit thereto any officer or employee of the city who is
authorized or directed to make such inspection or investigation at any
reasonable time that admission is desired or requested.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.130)
§ 110.43 COMMODITY ANALYSIS.
   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any ordinance provision, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee to give any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same, sufficient quantity of such commodity
or material for such analysis upon request.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.140)
§ 110.44 REVOCATION; HEARING.
   Any license or permit may be revoked by the Mayor and City Council during
the life of such license or permit for the violation by the licensee or
permittee of any of the ordinance provisions to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit or to the premises occupied, such
revocation in addition to any fine imposed. Prior to such revocation of the
license or permit, the city must submit to the licensee or permittee a written
notice informing him or her of his or her violation of the ordinance, and
within the notice, a date for a hearing will be set granting the licensee or
permittee an opportunity to be heard by the Mayor and the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.150) (Ord. passed - -80)
§ 110.45 POSTING REQUIREMENT.
   It is the duty of any person conducting any business or occupation under a
license or permit from the city to keep his or her license or permit posted in
a prominent place on the premises used for such business or occupation at all
times.
(‘82 Code, § 5.02.160)
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 110.60 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1760,
adopted 5-12-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Annual registration required. Every business, as defined in this
chapter, engaged in any business or occupation from a location within the
corporate limits of the city, whether licensed or not licensed by the city, is
required to annually register with the city.
   (B)   Business definition. For the purposes of this chapter, the term
"business" shall include any and all persons selling or providing any type of
service or product for profit, including, without limitation, any sole
proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, limited liability
partnership, corporation, professional corporation, joint venture, association,
franchise, or cooperative that leases, owns or occupies a building or space
within the city. Businesses that operate from distinct spaces or buildings
possessing separate addresses shall be deemed to be separate businesses
regardless of whether the businesses are owned or operated by the same sole
proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, limited liability
partnership, corporation, professional corporation, joint venture, association,
franchisee or cooperative.
   (C)   Exemptions. The annual business registration requirements of this
chapter shall not apply to (1) home occupations where clients of the business
do not visit the physical location of the business; (2) not-for-profit
entities; and (3) governmental entities.
   (D)   Application. Annual business registration shall be on a fmm provided
by the city. The registration form shall provide the name of the business; the
type of business (products sold or services provided); the owner's name,
address, e-mail address, and telephone number; the name, address, and telephone
number of the building owner; the insurer of the property; the business hours
of the business; and the names and telephone numbers of key holders to be
contacted in an emergency; and all other information reasonably requested by
the city, including but not limited to information regarding security and fire
alaims, surveillance cameras, and the presence of hazardous materials at the
business location.
   (E)   Frequency. Beginning on January 1, 2025, all businesses shall register
annually no later than January 15 of the calendar year.
   (F)   Changes to registration. Any business making changes to the
information provided on application for annual registration shall submit
written notice to the city within 30 days of any such change.
   (G)   Fees. The annual business registration shall be $25 and the fee shall
be payable upon submitting the application for annual registration.
   (H)   Penalties. Any person that violates this § 110.60 may be fined in
accordance with §
130.99.
(Ord. 1738, passed 6-10-24)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Alcoholic Liquor Licenses
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Filing of application
   
111.05   License application
   
111.06   Restrictions on licenses
   
111.07   Classifications
   
111.08   Locations
   
111.09   Time of sale
   
111.10   Hours
   
111.11   Persons of nonage
   
111.12   Inspection of premises
   
111.13   Term of license
   
111.14   Defaulter
   
111.15   Conduct in or upon licensed premises
   
111.16   Supplemental license - outdoor sales
   
111.17   Registration and documentation of retail sales of keg alcoholic
beverages
   
111.18   License for outdoor events
   
111.19   Temporary rules and regulations
   
111.20   Regulations of Class “D” licenses
Cross reference:
   Business licensing and regulations, see
Ch. 110
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used herein are to be taken and construed as the same
words are taken and construed in the “Liquor Control Act” of 1934, ILCS Ch.
235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq., as may be amended, except the definition of a
restaurant set forth in the Act, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5,§ 1-3.23, shall be defined
as follows:
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests, and when at least 60%
of the gross receipts or anticipated gross receipts of the licensee or
applicant are generated by the sale of food or nonalcoholic beverages. Upon
request of the liquor control commissioner, the licensee shall produce the
necessary records or financial data to verify that 60% of gross receipts of the
licensee are attributable to the sale of food or nonalcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 1611, passed 11-26-18)
§ 111.02 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be
charged with the administration of the appropriate provisions of this
subchapter and such other ordinances or resolutions of the city relating to
alcoholic liquor as may be enacted. He or she may appoint a person or persons
to assist him or her in the exercise of the powers and the performance of the
duties herein provided for the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, with the approval of a majority
of the City Council, may adopt local rules and regulations for hearings to
determine whether any license should be suspended, terminated or revoked.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have all of the powers as
provided by the laws of the state of Illinois, including closing an
establishment for nonpayment of the liquor license fee.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.020)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell at retail or have in his or her possession and offer
for sale at retail alcoholic liquor within the corporate limits of the city
without having first obtained a license to do so as provided by this section.
No license shall be issued without the approval of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner who, by the virtue of his or her office, is the Mayor of the city
of Fulton.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04 FILING OF APPLICATION.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall be issued by the Mayor and attested by
the City Clerk under the corporate seal, and no license shall be issued until
the application therefor shall have been approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. All applications for licenses shall remain on file in the office
of the Clerk to be listed in a record to be kept for this purpose.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.040)
§ 111.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Applications for a license or renewal of a license shall be made to the
Mayor on application blanks furnished by the City Clerk. Such applications
shall contain sufficient information to enable the Mayor to determine the
eligibility of the applicant for such license. Each application for a license
or renewal thereof shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $2,000
payable to the city with good and sufficient surety acceptable to the city,
conditioned on the applicant's faithful compliance with the laws of the state
of Illinois and the provisions of this subchapter, as amended. Each application
for renewal of a license issued under this subchapter shall be filed with the
City Clerk by the first of April of each year. Each application for a license
shall be accompanied by payment of the annual fee or semiannual installment if
permitted by this subchapter.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.050)
§ 111.06 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES.
   No liquor license shall be issued to any person or for any location if the
issuance is prohibited by the statutes of the state or by the ordinances of the
city.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.060)
§ 111.07 CLASSIFICATIONS.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1756,
adopted 3-24-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   The number, kind and classification of licenses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Class “A” licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on or off the premises,
as well as other retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee for such Class “A”
licenses shall be $1,000 for Monday through Saturday, with optional Sunday at
an additional $250, payable semiannually in advance on the first day of May and
the first day of November in each year in which such license is effective.
Nonprofit organizations shall pay $500 with optional Sunday at an additional
$125.
   (B)   Class “A-1" licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises. The
annual fee for such Class “A-1" licenses shall be $1,000 for Monday through
Saturday, with optional Sunday at an additional $250, payable semiannually in
advance of the first day of May and the first day of November in each year in
which such license is effective.
   (C)   Class “B” licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of beer and
wine for consumption off the premises. The annual fee for such licenses shall
be $400 for Monday through Saturday, with optional Sunday at an additional
$100, payable semiannually in advance on the first day of May and the first day
of November in each year in which such license is effective.
   (D)   Class “B-l” licenses, which shall be for the retail sale of beer and
wine for consumption on the premises of the licensee. The license fee for a
Class “B-l” license shall be $400 for Monday through Saturday with optional
Sunday at an additional $100, payable semiannually in advance on the first day
of May and the first day of November in each year in which such license is
effective.
   (E)   Class “B-2” licenses, which shall be for the retail sale of beer and
wine for consumption on or off the premises of the licensee. The license fee
for a Class “B-2” license shall be $400 for Monday through Saturday with
optional Sunday at an additional $100, payable semiannually in advance on the
first day of May and the first day of November in each year in which such
license is effective. Any licensee shall be required to have seating for 25 or
more persons.
   (F)   Class “C” licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises but only shall be issued to those
licensees who conduct on the premises a restaurant business as defined under §
111.01, the annual fees for such Class “C” licenses shall be $1,000 for Monday
through Saturday with optional Sunday sales and at a license cost of $250,
payable semi-annually in advance on the first day of March and on the first day
of November in each year in which such license is effective.
   (G)   Class “D” licenses which shall authorize the consumption and not the
purchase of beer and wine only brought onto the premises of a business
operating as a public accommodation by a patron or patrons for their personal
consumption while being served food in the establishment or ancillary to
another activity whose primary purpose is not the consumption of beer or wine
of a licensee holding a Class “D” license. A public accommodation shall be
defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-10.1 as may be amended but
currently defined to mean a refreshment, entertainment or recreation facility
of any kind, whether licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities,
privileges or advantages are extended, offered, sold or otherwise made
available to the public. The annual license fee for a Class “D” license shall
be $250, payable semi-annually in advance on the first day of May and the first
day of November in each year in which such license is effective.
   (H)   Temporary license.
      (1)   Purpose. A temporary liquor license may be issued for a limited
period of time for the purpose of allowing the licensee to raise funds for
charitable, educational or civic purposes.
      (2)   Licenses. A temporary license may be issued to not-for-profit
corporations or organizations operating under the laws of the state of Illinois
for charitable, educational or civic purposes. No license shall be issued
unless the applicant has been incorporated or organized for a period of not
less than one year prior to making application for such license. Application
shall be made with the Mayor at least 60 days prior to the date of intended
sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages and shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3) Term of license. A temporary license may be issued for a period not
to exceed three consecutive calendar days and shall be subject to the
provisions of this subchapter regarding time of sale, unless the Liquor Control
Commissioner further restricts the time of sale. No applicant shall receive
more than two temporary licenses in any calendar year.
      (4)   Application. In addition to the usual requirements, the applicant
shall include the following information:
         (a)   The location for which the license is sought;
         (b)   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental agreement or other
written authority for the use of the location if the applicant is not the owner
of said location;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the purpose for the issuance of said
license;
         (d)   A statement setting forth the applicant’s arrangements for crowd
control;
         (e)   Certificate of insurance showing evidence of dram shop and
liability insurance coverage;
         (f)   A request for specific times and dates for the term of said
license.
      (5)   Fees. The fee for a temporary license shall be $75 for two days,
$100 for three days, requests which include Sunday shall pay an additional $25
and shall be paid in full at the time the license is issued.
   (I)   (1)   No more than fourteen licenses shall be issued and be in full
force and effect at any time. The number of Class “A” licenses shall not exceed
five. The number of Class “A-1” licenses shall not exceed one. The number of
Class “B” licenses shall not exceed four. The number of Class “B-1” licenses
shall not exceed one. The number of Class “B-2” licenses shall be zero. The
number of Class “C” licenses shall not exceed two. The number of Class “D”
licenses shall not exceed one. The number of temporary licenses shall not
exceed one per day.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the number of licenses set forth above for each
classification, the number of licenses for the first Class “A”, “B-l” or “B-2”
license that is for any reason surrendered, cancelled or revoked, or for any
reason whatsoever available for issuance and not issued to a licensee under
Chapter 111 shall immediately be reduced by one in such class and the total
number of licenses that shall be in full force and effect at any time shall be
reduced from twelve to eleven. By way of illustration if a Class “A” license is
surrendered, cancelled, revoked or not renewed, the number of Class “A”
licenses shall thereafter be automatically and immediately reduced from five to
four and the total number of licenses reduced from twelve to eleven. This
provision for reduction in licenses shall apply to the first class “A”, “B-1”
or “B-2” license that is surrendered, cancelled, revoked or not renewed.
Moreover, it shall only apply to the first class “A”, “B-l”, or “B-2” license
reduced by one and any subsequent license that is surrendered, cancelled,
revoked or otherwise becomes available shall not reduce the number of licenses
in that class or the total number of licenses.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.070) (Am. Ord. 882, passed 7-5-88; Am. Ord. 1106, passed 9-7-
99; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-7-99; Am. Ord. 1409, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 1563,
passed 5-1-17; Am. Ord. 1568, passed 7-5-17; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 7-17-17; Am.
Ord. 1585, passed 2-12-18; Am. Ord. 1611, passed 11-26-18; Am. Ord. 1616,
passed 12-12-18; Am. Ord. 1620, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 1644, passed 12-9-19;
Am. Ord. 1647, passed 3-9-20; Am. Ord. 1653, passed 6-8-20; Am. Ord. 1681,
passed 5-27-21; Am. Ord. 1705, passed 9-12-22)
§ 111.08 LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Statutory restrictions on location. No license shall be issued for the
sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school
other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station, provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant services, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants,
food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school where the
church or school has been established within such 100 feet since the issuance
of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet
shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services
or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Local restrictions on location. No license shall be issued hereafter
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor in any building located in a block
where over 50% of the property, according to street frontage of the block (or
the blocks of both streets if a corner lot), and a like amount of property in
the block opposite such location (or in the blocks opposite if a corner lot)
is, at the time of filing the application for such permits, used for
residential purposes, or used in part for residential purposes and the rest is
vacant property. However, by majority vote, the City Council, in its sole
discretion, may waive the restrictions set forth in this division (B) and
approve the issuance of a liquor license for any location that would otherwise
be restricted by the terms of this division (B).
   (C)   Zoning. No license shall be issued to any premises unless the sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor at such premises complies with the applicable
Zoning Ordinance for the city.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.080) (Am. Ord. 1623, passed 3-25-19)
§ 111.09 TIME OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor “package” sales or retail sales of liquor, beer
and wine for consumption off the premises shall be sold, delivered,
transferred, distributed or given away upon or about any license premises by
anyone except Monday through Sunday of each week between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
and 1:45 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section for package sales,
no alcoholic liquor shall be sold, delivered, transferred, distributed or given
away upon or about any licensed premises by any one except during the following
period of time on the following days:
      (1)   On Monday through Saturday of each week between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 1:45 a.m. the following day.
      (2)   On Sunday of each week between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 1:45 a.m.
the following day.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary anywhere in this chapter, the
sale of all alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises under a Class “A-
l” license shall end at 10:00 p.m. every day instead of 1:45 a.m. the following
day.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.090) (Am. Ord. 1072, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1409, passed 5-3-
10; Am. Ord. 1611, passed 11-26-18; Am. Ord. 1640, passed 10-28-19; Am. Ord.
1695, passed 3-28-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 HOURS.
   (A)   General closing hours.
      (1)   No person shall consume, nor a licensee or any agent or employee of
any licensee permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor ¼ hour following the
time specified in §
111.09 of this subchapter at the time when the sale, distribution, transfer,
gift or consumption of alcoholic liquor must terminate.
      (2)   No person other than a licensee or an employee of a licensee shall
remain upon any licensed premises for any period of time longer than ¼ hour
following the time specified in §
111.09 of this subchapter as the time when the sale, distribution, transfer or
consumption of alcoholic liquor must terminate.
      (3)   During the time no alcoholic liquor may be sold, distributed,
transferred or consumed, the bar must remain closed and a conspicuous sign,
pedestal, curtain or identification marked "closed" must be placed on the bar
or adjacent to the bar.
   (B)   Exception. Licensees holding a Class “A,” Class “A-1,” Class “B”,
Class “B-2” or Class “C” license may remain open after the time designated in
subsection (2) above but only for the purpose of selling food or nonalcoholic
beverages or other item sold at retail by the licensee in the normal course of
business. The area of the bar or the area where liquor is primarily dispensed
shall be secure from the sale, distribution, transfer or consumption of
alcoholic liquor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.100) (Am. Ord. 882, passed 7-5-88; Am. Ord. 1611, passed 11-
26-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 PERSONS OF NONAGE.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to be and
remain within and loiter about any licensed premises other than for the purpose
of purchasing and consuming food and nonalcoholic beverages, or for the purpose
of purchasing other items sold at retail in the normal course of business by
the licensee, unless such person is an employee.
   (B)   Persons under the age of 21 years may not sit at the bar or primary
place where alcoholic liquor is dispensed.
   (C)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, attempt to
purchase, possess or consume any beer or wine or other alcoholic beverage upon
either licensed premises or other premises controlled by the licensee during
the license period.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.110) (Am. Ord. 1050, passed 6-4-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.12 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The premises used by each licensee hereunder and any adjacent premises
occupied or controlled by the licensee or his or her agent for the purpose of
the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages shall conform in all
respects to the applicable building and fire codes of the city heretofore or
hereafter adopted. The Mayor or City Administrator, or their delegates, may
enter and inspect the premises of each licensee hereunder, including any
adjacent premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his or her agent to
determine compliance with such building or fire code.
   (B)   The Mayor, Chief of Police and all members of the police force may
enter and inspect the premises of each licensee hereunder or any adjacent
premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his or her agent at any time
and they may take possession of and remove any intoxicating liquors found upon
the premises in violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (C)   All licenses now in force or hereafter issued under this subchapter
shall be subject to the reservation of the authority to enter and inspect and
refusal by the licensee or his or her agent to permit such action shall
constitute sufficient grounds for the immediate suspension or revocation of the
licensee by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.120)
§ 111.13 TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license issued hereunder shall be valid from the date of issue
to the first day of May next succeeding the date of issue.
   (B)   Whenever any owner, partner or member of an original firm which is a
licensee under this subchapter ceases to carry on business or ceases to be a
partner or member, the license issued under this subchapter shall be
surrendered to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner for revocation and
cancellation. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to
assign and issue such license.
   (C)   If a license is not used by a licensee within a period of 60 days from
the date of its issuance, the license is subject to revocation in the
discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner; provided further that if
the use of a license lapses for a period of 60 days, the license is subject to
revocation in the discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (D)   The unused portion of the license shall be forfeited to the city when
such license is revoked or canceled as provided in this division.
   (E)   Proration of first year of license fee. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this chapter, each license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the payment of an annual fee unless payable semi-annually as
provided herein, pro-rated on a monthly basis on the date of filing the
application to May 1 next succeeding the filing of the application. Thereafter,
the official licensing year shall begin on May 1 of each year and expire on
April 30 of the next succeeding calendar year. If the license is issued on any
date in a particular month, that month shall be calculated as a full calendar
month for the purpose of the proration provided herein and the full license fee
shall be charged for any license issued at any time during the first month of
such license year. No license shall be issued for any term less than the
balance of the unexpired license year.
(Ord. 1179, passed 2-19-02)
§ 111.14 DEFAULTER.
   Whenever any licensee does not pay when due any license fee, tax,
assessment, utility account or any other indebtedness due the city on any
account or for any purpose, the license issued under this subchapter may be
revoked or suspended by the Liquor Control Commissioner as otherwise provided
herein.
(‘82 Code, § 5.04.140)
§ 111.15 CONDUCT IN OR UPON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Prohibited conduct.     The following kinds of conduct on premises in
the city licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breast, pubic hair, anus,
vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which is prohibited by subsections (1), (2) or (3) of this
section.
      (5)   The permitting by licensee, his or her agent or employee of any
person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who exposes to public view
any portion of his or her genitals or anus;
      (6)   The allowance by a licensee, his or her agent or employee of any
persons to perform, present, participate or direct in or upon the licensed
premises any play or dance or other performance which acts are prohibited by
subsections (1), (2) or (3) of this section.
   (B)   Tumultuous conduct. No person shall disturb, tend to disturb or aid in
disturbing the peace of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or
obstreperous conduct, and no person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon
any premises owned or possessed by him or her or under his or her control and
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor. All liquor licenses shall aid city police to
quell the aforesaid activities by reporting said conduct as soon as possible
and shall cooperate with city police in the investigation and prosecution of
violators of this section.
   (C)   Acts of agents or employees; liability of license. Every act or
omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions
of this city code or any of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act by any
officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee shall be
deemed and held to be the act of such licensee, and said licensee shall be
punishable in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee.
(Am. Ord. 1048, passed 6-4-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.16 SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE — OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   Any person holding a valid license under this chapter for consumption
on the premises shall have the right to request a supplemental license for the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages in an outdoor beer garden or café adjacent
to the licensed premises. No annual fee shall be charged for the supplemental
license. An application shall be submitted for a supplemental license, which
application shall include the following:
      (1)   A scaled drawing of the proposed outdoor facility, including
surrounding fence.
      (2)   A method by which the area shall be confined to prohibit the
removal of alcoholic liquor and constrict noise to the approved area.
      (3)   A reasonably substantial structure across which alcoholic liquor
shall be served which shall afford bartenders reasonable protection from
patrons unless the outdoor facility is served directly by the indoor licensed
premises.
      (4)   Locations of at least two exits from the area, only one of which
shall be through a building and such exits shall be approved by the zoning
officer of the city.
   (B)   A supplemental license shall not be issued for any location in a
residential section of the city. Live music shall only be permitted in the
outdoor area by specific approval by the City Council by a majority vote.
Supplemental license shall allow the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the
outdoor beer garden or café only during the hours from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m., or such hours as may be approved by majority vote of the City Council.
   (C)   The outdoor beer garden or café area shall be confined by a six-foot
high solid fence in compliance with all ordinances of the city and constructed
in such a manner as approved by the City Council. The licensee shall be
responsible to insure that no customer, employee, or other person removes
alcoholic liquor from the area designated.
   (D)   The term of the supplemental license shall be as prescribed in §
111.13, but such supplemental license shall be reviewable and subject to
termination at any time in the sole discretion of the City Council.
   (E)   No supplemental license shall be issued or continued if there is a
finding that it would alter or has altered the essential character of the
neighborhood, would cause or has caused undue traffic or parking problems in
the neighborhood or has caused a noise problem in the neighborhood.
   (F)   Each supplemental license shall be issued after affirmative
recommendation by the City Council.
(Ord. 1206, passed 4-15-03; Am. Ord. 1392, passed 7-20-09; Am. Ord. 1396,
passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 1434, passed 7-5-11)
§ 111.17 REGISTRATION AND DOCUMENTATION OF RETAIL SALES OF KEG ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   KEG shall mean any metal, wooden, plastic, paper or other container
designed to hold four or more gallons of liquid and contains any amount of
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Each purchaser of a keg shall provide a current government issued
photo identification and the purchaser's name, address, and individual
identification number to the licensee who shall record and document that
information in a log. The log shall also contain the individual keg
identification assigned to the keg by the licensee, and include the date of
sale and indicate that the photo identification that was produced was matched
to the purchaser. The log shall also record the name of the person responsible
for the sale of each keg sold by the licensee. The information required under
this section shall be maintained by the licensee for a minimum period of six
months after the date of sale.
   (C)   All licensees shall assign, record and attach to each keg sold for
offsite consumption an individual keg registration label or sticker, before the
sale and the sticker shall also include a prominent warning stating that it is
illegal to alter, damage or remove the sticker from the keg.
   (D)   Licensees of keg alcohol shall obtain the individual keg
identification stickers from the Whiteside County Sheriff’s Department which
shall record to whom the stickers are distributed and shall restrict the
distribution of the stickers to licensed alcoholic retailers. The Sheriff's
Department shall maintain a record of such distribution.
   (E)   The licensee shall collect a deposit in an amount established by the
licensee, but not less than $50 for each keg. Purchasers shall be informed to
and shall return the keg to the licensee where the keg was purchased with the
individual keg registration sticker attached, intact and legible on or before
60 days from the date of sale. If the purchaser fails to return the keg to such
licensee within 60 days or if the sticker is not attached and legible for
identification the deposit shall be forfeited and retained by the licensee. A
licensee may extend the time to return a keg in its sole discretion.
   (F)   The licensee shall record in the log the date the keg is returned, the
name of the person that returned the keg and whether the keg identification
sticker was still attached and legible.
   (G)   Licensee's shall remove or otherwise invalidate the individual keg
identification stickers from the keg when returned. All used stickers shall be
destroyed.
   (H)   Licensee's shall produce all keg registration logs and records to the
Police Department upon request.
   (I)   No person, other than a licensee, shall possess a keg which was
purchased within the city after the effective date of this section without an
individual keg identification sticker intact, legible and attached as required
herein. If the person claims that the keg was purchased at a location where
such a sticker was not required the person shall provide adequate proof of the
date of purchase of the keg and the name and address of seller.
   (J)   No person, except a licensee, shall alter, damage, destroy or remove
the sticker which is required by this section or any other applicable law or
ordinance of the city or any other governmental entity after it has been
attached to the keg.
   (K)   No licensee under the provisions of this section shall, either
individually or through his or her agents or employees permit any person to
purchase a keg without compliance with all requirements of this section and all
other applicable provisions of the Fulton Municipal Code.
   (L)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
a minimum fine of $300 the first offense, $500 the second offense and $750 for
the third and subsequent offenses, in addition to all other penalties provided
by law.
(Ord. 1436, passed 9-6-11)
§ 111.18 LICENSE FOR OUTDOOR EVENTS.
   (A)   A licensee under this chapter may be issued an outdoor event license
to sell alcohol inside the licensed establishment that may be possessed and
consumed in open containers on city property according to the terms and
conditions of the license and this section and such rules and regulations as
may be adopted from time to time by motion of the City Council.
   (B)   Section 130.04 entitled “Public Intoxication,” of this Code shall not
apply to licensees that are issued an outdoor event license and are official
participants in a city sanctioned and approved outdoor event which takes place
on public property of the city, or to those persons who consume or possess open
containers of alcoholic liquor or beer purchased from or provided by a licensee
issued an outdoor event licensee under this section for such event and
operating as an official participant in such city sanctioned or approved
outdoor event on city property. Any and all licensees granted an outdoor event
license and participating in such outdoor event shall be required to abide by
all other requirements, rules and regulations adopted by the City Council and
secure a proper outdoor event license in order to sell or serve alcoholic
liquor. The City Council shall establish by motion such rules and regulations
as it may deem appropriate and it shall be unlawful for any licensee and
members of the public to violate any such rules and regulations or any terms of
this section. The city shall establish an application and may establish a
license fee.
(Ord. 1524, passed 5-18-15)
§ 111.19 TEMPORARY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City of Fulton in an effort to promote the most favorable operating
conditions for the local bars and restaurants, which have suffered lost
business opportunities during Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the Restore Illinois Plan,
hereby establishes the following for rules and regulations to allow restaurants
and bars to serve food and liquor outdoors:
   (A)   Outdoor dining. The restrictions on outdoor dining and other
regulations in the Code of Fulton regulating restaurants and bars for outdoor
dining service, are hereby temporarily amended and/or suspended during the
period of the declared disaster until such time as restaurants and bars in
Fulton are allowed to open for indoor table and bar service under the Restore
Illinois Plan.
   (B)   Authorization. The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to develop
criteria and to establish a streamlined permit review process consistent with
this order whereby a restaurant or bar shall submit its plan for the use of
outdoor space for food and beverage service, including all amenities, barriers,
tables, spacing, and such other requirements deemed necessary by the Mayor. The
plan shall be reviewed by the Mayor, which may recommend conditions for
approval. The permit (written or verbal) shall be issued by the Mayor, and the
issuance of such permit shall be an exercise of his official discretion.
   (C)   The Mayor is further empowered to require, as a condition of said
permit, that the applicant must:
      (1)   Comply with all conditions imposed by city staff for use of the
outdoor dining area;
      (2)   Comply will all plans approved by city staff governing the
operation and maintenance of the outdoor dining area;
      (3)   Comply with all laws governing the operation and maintenance of the
outdoor dining area, including all applicable executive orders and state
guidance;
      (4)   Agree to hold harmless the city from any and all liability of any
kind or nature arising out of in any way from a business operating under the
terms of this order.
   (D)   Temporary directional and parking signage. Bars and restaurants
operating outdoors will be permitted to erect temporary directional signage to
facilitate ingress, egress, and flow of traffic that may otherwise be impacted
by parking stall reductions or overflow of business operations onto sidewalks
and parking areas. Temporary parking signage shall also be permitted that
identifies dedicated curbside, pick-up, or third-party delivery services. All
temporary signs must be kept in a safe and well-maintained manner. The Mayor
may order that the signage be re-oriented or dismantled if it jeopardizes the
health, safety, and welfare of the public, or impedes the operations of, or
causes traffic conflicts with, neighboring businesses.
   (E)   Banner signs. For bars and restaurants operating outdoors, the
restrictions on the location and duration of banner signs shall be suspended,
provided that the signs comply with the applicable size, quantity and
maintenance regulations, and do not obstruct the clear view of any traffic
signal, regulatory sign, street sign or the vision triangle. All temporary
signs must be kept in a safe and well-maintained manner.
   (F)   Outdoor storage. Restrictions on outdoor storage shall be waived for
bars and restaurants operating outdoors, provided that the applicant can
demonstrate the outdoor storage is incidental to the outdoor dining uses
permitted in this section.
   (G)   Enforcement. The City of Fulton Police Department is authorized to
implement, administer and enforce the Fulton City Code consistent with this
section.
   (H)   Permit. The Mayor shall have the power to grant a permit to any
business meeting the state guidelines and the te1ms of this section.
   (I)   Reference. The city hereby adopts by reference all of the existing
applicable guidelines from any Department of the State of Illinois as may be
amended from time to time by action of the Governor or any department of the
state.
   (J)   Deputy. The Mayor shall have the power to delegate any authority under
this section to any Deputy.
   (K)   Public right-of-way. The Mayor shall have the authority to grant the
authority for outdoor dining at restaurants and bars for eating and drinking on
public property including sidewalks, streets or alleys as the Mayor may deem
appropriate.
   (L)   Enforcement. The Commissioner shall have the authority to withdraw any
permit if a license holder or business establishment fails to comply with the
terms and conditions of the guidelines issued by the state.
(Ord. 1652, passed 5-29-20)
§ 111.20 REGULATIONS OF CLASS “D” LICENSES.
   (A)   Only beer and wine are allowed to be consumed on the licensed premises
of the holder of a Class “D” license.
   (B)   The license holder is only allowed to provide containers, ice and ice
holders for patrons.
   (C)   The license holder, its agents, or its employees may open, but shall
be prohibited from serving, pouring, or storing any wine or beer for patrons.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the license holder, its agents or its
employees to permit any patron to leave the licensed premises with an open
container of wine or beer, and the license holder shall require patrons who
leave the licensed premises with their own beer and wine not to remove opened
bottles or containers of beer and wine unless in sealed or unopened containers
in compliance with Illinois law.
   (E)   No consumption of wine or beer shall be permitted on the licensed
premises unless it is served as a complement to the sale of food, or is served
as a complement of food or ancillary to another activity whose primary purpose
is not the consumption of wine or beer.
   (F)   A certificate of insurance, with coverage for dram shop and general
liability in such minimum amounts as the Liquor Commissioner may deem necessary
from time to time, shall be presented to the city by each applicant for a Class
“D” license and the city shall be named as an additional insured on the license
holder's insurance. Further, the license holder shall agree in writing to save
and hold harmless the city's agents, employees, elected and appointed officials
from any and all claims or causes of action arising out of the consumption of
any alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises as a condition of a Class “D”
license.
   (G)   A Class “D” license holder shall only be permitted to allow the
consumption of wine and beer on the licensed premises during the hours set
forth in §
111.10.
(Ord. 1653, passed 6-8-20)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Public Shows, Circuses, Other Amusements
   
112.01   Applicability of provisions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Accommodation requirement
   
112.04   Table game or amusement device; permit requirement
   
112.05   Amusement or show provoking public disturbance prohibited
   
112.06   Official inspection requirement
   
112.07   Smoking prohibition; posting requirement
   
112.08   Charitable organization exemption
Billiard and Pool Halls
   
112.20   License; application, fee
   
112.21   Restriction on hours of operation
Bowling Alleys
   
112.35   License; application, fee
   
112.36   Restriction on hours of operation
Shooting Galleries
   
112.45   License; application, fee
   
112.46   Ricochet prevention
Skating Rinks
   
112.60   License required
   
112.61   License fees
   
112.62   Restriction on hours of operation
Motion Pictures and Theatricals
   
112.75   License required
   
112.76   Annual license fee
   
112.77   Daily license fee
   
112.78   Statutory compliance requirement
Video Gaming Regulations
   
112.90   Authority to regulate
   
112.91   Fee
   
112.92   Definition
   
112.93   License required
   
112.94   Number of devices allowed
   
112.95   Application form required
   
112.96   Length of license
   
112.97   License not transferable
   
112.98   Regulation on disturbing the peace
   
112.99   Conditions governing license
   
112.100   Suspension or revocation of license
   
112.101   Information requirement
   
112.102   Time of application
Special Events
   
112.120   Special event permit required
   
112.121   Definitions
   
112.122   Exceptions
   
112.123   Special event permit application process
   
112.124   Denial or revocation
   
112.125   Notice of denial; appeals
   
112.126   Insurance required
   
112.127   Indemnification
   
112.128   Sanitary facilities
   
112.129   Application fee
   
112.130   Amendments to the permit
   
112.131   Bandshell rental
   
112.132   Penalty
PUBLIC SHOWS, CIRCUSES, OTHER AMUSEMENTS
§ 112.01 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements, whether
specifically licensed in any other section in this chapter or not.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.010)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open to
the public and for which a fee is charged for admission thereto without having
first secured a license therefor; provided that this paragraph shall not apply
to those amusements which are specifically licensed by any ordinance of the
city. Applications for such licenses shall be made to the City Clerk and shall
comply with all of the general provisions of the ordinances relating to such
applications.
   (B)   For such licenses, the following fees shall be paid:
      (1)   Menageries, per day: As set forth in the license fee schedule on
file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk
      (2)   Carnivals, per day: As set forth in the license fee schedule on
file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk
      (3)   Exhibitions of inanimate objects, per day: As set forth in the
license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk
      (4)   Other amusements, per day: As set forth in the license fee schedule
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03 ACCOMMODATION REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be granted for any carnival, exhibition, show or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place that
the only main accommodation for the public or audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.030)
§ 112.04 TABLE GAME OR AMUSEMENT DEVICE; PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful to maintain or expose for public use any table games or
amusement device operated with a slug or coin, or for the use of which a fee is
charged, without having first obtained a license therefor. The annual license
fee for such licenses shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule on file
and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term "table game" means and includes any
device, whether controlled by skill or chance, for the operation of a game,
pastime or contest by the manipulation of a marble, sphere or of objects or
figures, electrical or mechanical, or by controlling the movements of the same
or setting them in motion by electrical or mechanical means.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.040) (Ord. 755, passed - -81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.05 AMUSEMENT OR SHOW PROVOKING PUBLIC DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind which
tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance if the
activity caused or promoted is imminent and lawless and the speech is likely to
incite it, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending any amusement,
show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.080) (Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.06 OFFICIAL INSPECTION REQUIREMENT.
   It is the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department and the Chief of the
Police Department to see that every exhibition, amusement, show, theatrical or
other public show or amusement is inspected by a member of their respective
departments to insure conformance with the provisions concerning such
amusements.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.090)
§ 112.07 SMOKING PROHIBITION; POSTING REQUIREMENT.
   It is the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of the premises in which
such shows, amusements, theatricals, lectures or other public entertainments
are presented, having seating accommodations for more than 100 persons, to
provide and place signs on which the words "No Smoking" shall appear in letters
at least four inches high in conspicuous places on such premises, and it is
unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe on such premises
while such entertainment is being offered.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.100)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.08 CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter pertaining to licenses, permits and fees
shall not apply to entertainments, the total proceeds of which are to be
devoted to schools, churches or to benevolent or charitable purposes, or to
local societies or organizations maintained for the benefit of the public.
(‘82 Code, § 5.06.110)
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
§ 112.20 LICENSE; APPLICATION, FEE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, maintain or conduct a
billiard, pool, bagatelle or pigeon hole table, open to the public, without
having first obtained a license therefor. All applications for such a license
shall state thereon the intended location of the place of business and the
number of tables to be used therein. The annual fee for such license shall be
as set forth in the license fee schedule on file and available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.08.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.21 RESTRICTION ON HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No billiard hall, or other hall licensed under this subchapter, shall be
open for business or used between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
further provided that such hall shall not be open between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 12:00 noon on a Sunday.
(‘82 Code, § 5.08.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 112.35 LICENSE; APPLICATION, FEE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or maintain a bowling alley
open to the public without having first obtained a license therefor.
Applications for such licenses shall state the location of the intended place
of business and number of alleys to be used. The annual fee for such licenses
shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule on file and available for
public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.10.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.36 RESTRICTION ON HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No bowling alley shall be kept open for business or used between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday; nor shall they be open for
business or used on the first day of the week commonly called Sunday except
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(‘82 Code, § 5.10.020) (Ord. 712, passed - -77; Ord. 724, passed - -78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SHOOTING GALLERIES
§ 112.45 LICENSE; APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to maintain or operate a shooting gallery in the city
without having first obtained a license therefor. The annual fee for such
licenses shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule on file and
available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be accompanied by a bond with
corporate surety in the sum of $10,000 conditioned to indemnify the city
against loss or damage as a result of the operation of such business or the
manner of operating the same.
(‘82 Code, § 5.12.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.46 RICOCHET PREVENTION.
   Targets shall be placed before a backstop of steel sufficiently thick to
prevent any bullet from piercing it and so constructed so that there will be no
danger from any ricocheting bullet or pieces of bullet.
(‘82 Code, § 5.12.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SKATING RINKS
§ 112.60 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to maintain or operate a skating rink in the city without
having first obtained a license therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 5.14.010) (Ord. passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.61 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for such skating rink shall be as set forth in the license fee
schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City
Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.14.020)
§ 112.62 RESTRICTION ON HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No skating rink shall be open for business or used between the hours of 12:
00 midnight and 8:00 a.m. and shall be closed all day on the first day of each
week commonly called Sunday.
(‘82 Code, § 5.14.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
MOTION PICTURES AND THEATRICALS
§ 112.75 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to give, present or conduct any motion picture or theatrical
for admission to which a fee is charged without having first obtained a license
therefor; provided, however, that this subchapter shall not pertain to
performances given solely for the benefit of, and under the supervision of, a
religious, educational or charitable organization.
(‘82 Code, § 5.16.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.76 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   Any person securing an annual license for motion pictures or theatricals
naming a specific place or building where the performances are to be presented
may present therein any number of performances, including theatricals, during
the year for which the license was obtained without having to pay any
additional fee. The annual fee for such licenses shall be as set forth in the
license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.16.020)
§ 112.77 DAILY LICENSE FEE.
   For motion pictures or theatricals which are to be presented in premises
which are not covered by such license fees, the fee to be paid shall be as set
forth in the license fee schedule on file and available for public inspection
in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘82 Code, § 5.16.030)
§ 112.78 STATUTORY COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful to present any motion picture or theatrical in any premises
which does not fully comply with the requirements of the city ordinances or the
statutes of the state, or to permit any person, other than ushers to remain
standing during the time of the performance, or to admit to such premises more
persons than can be accommodated by the seating arrangements of the premises.
(‘82 Code, § 5.16.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
VIDEO GAMING REGULATIONS
§ 112.90 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   This subchapter is passed pursuant to ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.
(the Illinois Video Gaming Act).
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.91 FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on the privilege of operating every video gaming
terminal in the city, as defined by the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., an annual fee of $250 per year commencing with the
issuance of any license on or after January 1, 2023 or a license that expires
on December 31, 2022. For the calendar year 2022, the annual fee shall be
increased from $25 to $125 commencing July 1, 2022 which increase shall only
apply to the calendar year 2022.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 1699, passed 5-23-22)
§ 112.92 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. As used herein shall include any person, firm, corporation or
association, or partnership which, as permitted by state law and regulation,
owns or possesses or places for use by the public any video gaming terminal,
and shall also mean any such person, firm, corporation, partnerships or
association having control over any video gaming terminal.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. The same meaning as set forth in the Illinois Gaming
Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 65.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.93 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, possess, keep or display for use or patronage by the
public within the city, any video gaming terminal without having first obtained
a license from the city, through the Chief of Police, and said license shall be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
The posted license may include more than one terminal on the licensed premises.
It shall be a prerequisite to any license from the city that the person have a
valid license from the State of Illinois for each video gaming terminal and the
loss or suspension of any license issued by the State of Illinois shall
automatically result in the loss and suspension of the license issued by the
city, without refund of any license fee. Pursuant to state regulation, the
city, through the Chief of Police, shall report to the State of Illinois any
discipline or change in status of any video gaming licenses issued by the city.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.94 NUMBER OF DEVICES ALLOWED.
   The number of video gaming terminal devices permitted upon a licensed
premises at any one time shall not exceed that number authorized in the license
issued for said premises by the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.95 APPLICATION FORM REQUIRED.
   An application for a video gaming license shall be made to the Chief of
Police on forms furnished by the Chief of Police. The application shall set
forth the number of video gaming terminals sought for the licensed premises;
shall include a copy of the license from the State of Illinois for each video
gaming terminal for which an application to the city is being made; and shall
be accompanied by payment of the appropriate fee.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.96 LENGTH OF LICENSE.
   Every license granted hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which it is granted. The fee shall not be prorated.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.97 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued to any person hereunder shall be transferable to any other
person or for any other premises other than as set forth on the license.
Application must be made annually.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.98 REGULATION ON DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall permit the operation of any
video gaming terminal at any place or in any manner which will disturb the
peace and quiet of persons outside, or beyond the premises on which the
terminal is being used. No immoral or indecent selection shall be presented in
any video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.99 CONDITIONS GOVERNING LICENSE.
   In addition to any other condition or regulation contained in this
subchapter or in the laws of the State of Illinois, no video gaming terminal
shall be located in any establishment that does not qualify as a licensed
establishment, as that term is defined in the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.100 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under this subchapter
upon due notice to the licensee of the time and place of a public hearing, and
after a public hearing, if the Mayor determines that the licensee has failed or
refused to comply with any provision in this subchapter, has failed or refused
to comply with other law applicable to the business of keeping or providing
video gaming terminals or has been convicted by a court of competent
jurisdiction of a violation of any provision of this subchapter or the Illinois
Video Gaming Act.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.101 INFORMATION REQUIREMENT.
   Applications for the licenses required above shall be filed in duplicate
with the Chief of Police (with one of said copies being retained, each, by the
Chief of Police and by the applicant), and shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   If the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company:
      (1)   Corporate name and address.
      (2)   Names, dates of birth, and addresses of corporate officers and
directors.
      (3)   Statement of principal kind of business in which corporation
engages.
      (4)   Statement of whether corporate business will be conducted by a
manager, and the name, address and authority of any such manager or agent.
      (5)   Names, dates of birth, and addresses of all persons, firms and
organizations owning of record 5% or more of the corporation's stock.
      (6)   Statement of whether any officer, manager, director, or shareholder
owning 5% or more of the stock of the corporation has ever been convicted of a
felony charge.
      (7)   The location of the place of business where the video gaming
terminal is to be kept or displayed.
      (8)   Statement or personal history of the manager or agent conducting
business for the corporation.
      (9)   Any other information which the Chief of Police shall require.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual, partnership, or association:
      (1)   Name and address, and date of birth of applicant.
      (2)   Location of place of business.
      (3)   Principal kind of business engaged in.
      (4)   Statement of whether business will be conducted by a manager or
agent, and the name and address and date of birth of any such manager or agent.
      (5)   The location of the place of business where the video gaming
terminal is to be kept or displayed.
      (6)   Statement of personal history of the manager or agent conducting
business for applicant.
      (7)   Any other information which the Chief of Police shall require.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
§ 112.102 TIME OF APPLICATION.
   Any such application submitted above shall be submitted at least 30 days
prior to the commencement of the period for which the license is sought.
(Ord. 1456, passed 6-4-12)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 112.120 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any special event held within the corporate limits of the City of Fulton
shall obtain and comply with a special event permit as set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.121 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the contest
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person or organization who has filed a written application for
a special event permit.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Fulton, or their designee.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a special event permit is granted pursuant to
this section.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police for the City of Fulton or their designee.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property owned or controlled by the City of Fulton
as well as any structure erected on said property, including but not limited to
public buildings, parking lots, and parks.
   PUBLIC STREET. The entire width of the publicly owned right-of-way.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A public or private event held within the corporate limits of
the city, which make use of public property and/or streets, or where it can be
reasonably expected that special city services will be required beyond those
that are regularly provided by the city, such as additional police services,
traffic control, crowed control, street closures, barricades, garbage cleanup,
or other municipal services which may be necessary to service the event.
Additionally, those public or private events that involve musical groups or
amplified sound, high intensity lighting, fireworks, erection of temporary
structures on city owned or controlled property, displays or other activities
of such nature that impinges upon any adjacent public, business or residential
areas shall be considered as a special event.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.122 EXCEPTIONS.
   Certain exceptions have been made for the following entities:
   (A)   Governmental entities shall be exempt from special event permitting;
and
   (B)   Educational institutions, approved or authorized by the State of
Illinois, shall be exempt from special event permitting.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.123 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Applicants for events which require a permit under this subchapter
shall apply for said permit on the application form approved by the mayor and
the Police Chief. Permit applications shall be submitted not less than 90 days
prior to the anticipated date of the event. The Mayor shall be authorized to
establish minimum standards for the conduct of any event requiring a permit.
The application shall contain at a minimum the following information: the name,
address, telephone number of the person or entity seeking to conduct the
special event; the name, date, time, and location of the event; the approximate
number of attendees; and any other information reasonably requested by the
city.
   (B)   The permit application shall be accompanied by a site plan showing the
proposed location and orientation of the event as well as any other licenses
required by city ordinance or state law.
   (C)   All permits shall be subject to review by the Mayor and the Chief of
Police, who shall be authorized to require additional or supplemental
information based upon the nature of the event.
   (D)   Any special event at which it is anticipated that alcohol will be
served or vended shall comply with
Chapter 111.
   (E)   A special event permit shall be issued if, upon review, the Mayor or
their designee finds that all applicable fees have been paid and that the
special event shall be conducted in such a way that:
      (1)   It will not substantially interrupt the safety and orderly movement
of traffic near its location or route;
      (2)   It will not require the diversion of so great a number of police
officers to properly police the special event location or line of movement and
the adjacent areas as to unduly interfere with the normal protection for the
city;
      (3)   It will not unduly interfere with the efficient response movement
of firefighting equipment and services in route to a fire;
      (4)   The concentration of people, animals, and vehicles at assembly
points and during the event will not unduly interfere with proper fire, EMS,
and police services to areas near such special event;
      (5)   It is not likely to cause injury to persons or property; and
      (6)   There will be adequate sanitation in or adjacent to any public
assembly areas.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.124 DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Mayor or the Mayor's designee may deny a special event permit if:
      (1)   The special event will conflict in time and location with another
special event, parade, or assembly for which a permit has already been granted;
      (2)   The applicant fails to comply with or the special event will
violate an ordinance of the city, or any other applicable law;
      (3)   The applicant makes or permits the making of a false or misleading
statement, or an omission of material fact on an application for a special
event permit;
      (4)   The applicant has been convicted of violating this chapter, has had
a special event permit revoked within the preceding 12 months, or has failed to
pay any additional costs assessed by the city for a previous special event
within the previous two years;
      (5)   The applicant fails to provide proof of a license or permit
required by this chapter, or another city ordinance, or state law;
      (6)   The special event, in the opinion of one more city departmental
heads, would unduly hinder or compromise the delivery or performance of normal
services, including previously scheduled construction or maintenance services,
or emergency services, or constitutes a public threat;
      (7)   The applicant fails to submit a complete application or fails to
provide any additional information requested by the Mayor or the Mayor's
designee within 15 days of the request; or
      (8)   The proposed date or time for the special event or the location of
the special event or parking for such special event would unduly interfere or
disrupt the educational activities of a school when such school is in session.
   (B)   A special event permit shall be revoked upon the following conditions:
      (1)   In the event that the Mayor, the Police Chief, the Public Works
Director, the Fire Chief for the Fulton Fire Protection District, the State
Fire Marshal, or any other city official finds that any provisions of this
subchapter, another city ordinance, or state law is being violated, and upon
notice to the Mayor, the special event permit issued hereunder shall be
revoked;
      (2)   When, in the judgment of the above-named officials, a violation
exists which requires immediate abatement, the Police Chief shall have the
authority to revoke the special event permit in the absence or unavailability
of the Mayor;
      (3)   The permittee made or permitted to be made a false or misleading
statement or omission of material fact on an application for a special event
permit; or
      (4)   For failure to provide adequate proofs of insurance or to pay for
any required licenses, permits, or other fees for the event.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.125 NOTICE OF DENIAL; APPEALS.
   The Mayor or their designee shall act upon a complete application for a
special event permit within ten business days after the filing thereof and
shall be deemed to have acted if the application is approved, denied, or a
request for additional information has been made to the applicant. An
application filed at least 90 days prior to the anticipated date(s) for the
special event shall be considered to have been timely filed even if the Mayor
or their designee requests additional information from the applicant. Any
applicant aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of an application
for a special event permit to the City Council by notifying the Mayor or the
Mayor's designee a notice of appeal in writing. The City Council shall hear the
appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, and the decision of the City
Council shall be final.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.126 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 1754,
adopted 3-24-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   The applicant shall either (a) provide the city with a certificate of
liability insurance of not less than $1,000,000 in comprehensive general
liability insurance, including property damage and personal injury, and listing
the city as an additional insured; or (b) request in the application that the
special event be added as a rider to the city's comprehensive general liability
insurance, including adding any entities that might be impacted by the special
event as additional insureds. The Mayor is authorized to waive the insurance
requirement for the applicant if the special event, and any additional required
insureds can be added as a rider to the city's comprehensive general liability
insurance at no additional cost to the city. An application shall not be
considered to be complete until the Mayor issues such a waiver or the
certificate of liability insurance is received. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
any applicant who would be required to obtain a form of insurance under a
different provision of a city ordinance or state law shall still be required to
obtain said insurance and submit proof of same with the applicant's application
for a special event permit.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.127 INDEMNIFICATION.
   An application for a special event permit shall be accompanied by the city's
signed indemnification and release form.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.128 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Portable type sanitary facilities must be provided as follows: (a) one
portable toilet for every 200 anticipated attendees for every event where
alcohol will not be served; or (b) one portable toilet for every 50 anticipated
attendees where alcohol will be served.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.129 APPLICATION FEE.
   An applicant shall submit to the city a fee with the applicant's application
for a special event permit in an amount equal to $50 for each date anticipated
to be covered by said permit. Said application fee shall be non-refundable.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.130 AMENDMENTS TO THE PERMIT.
   A permittee may request an amendment to their special event permit,
including the site plan, up to 15 days prior to the special event. Any
amendment to the permit shall be subject to the review of the Mayor or their
designee and the Police Chief. If approved, the permit shall be changed to
reflect the amendment to the application. If denied, the permit shall remain in
place unaltered. A permittee denied an amendment to the permit shall have the
same right of appeal to the City Council as a denied applicant unless the
special event shall occur prior to the next regular City Council meeting, in
which case the denial of the amendment shall be final.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.131 BANDSHELL RENTAL.
   An applicant shall submit to the city an additional fee for a special event
permit in an amount equal to $250 for each date anticipated to be covered by
said permit in which the applicant is renting the city bandshell. The applicant
shall also submit a deposit of $250 with the applicant's application for a
special event permit for the repair or replacement of any damage caused by the
applicant's use of the bandshell or special event attendees. The Mayor or the
Mayor's designee shall perform an inspection of the bandshell upon the next
business day following the special event to determine the extent of damage, if
any, caused to the bandshell. Should the bandshell be found to be undamaged,
the city shall refund the bandshell deposit to the applicant. Should the
bandshell be found to be damaged, then the deposit shall be forfeited to the
city and applied to the costs of repairing damage. The applicant shall also
indemnify the city against any damage to the bandshell in excess of the deposit
not otherwise covered by insurance.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
§ 112.132 PENALTY.
   Any person or organization which conducts a special event within the
corporate limits of the City of Fulton without first obtaining a special event
permit shall have committed a municipal infraction offense and shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $100, but not more than $750 for each day a
violation occurs, in addition to any permit suspension or revocation under this
article. A culpable mental state is not required for the commission of an
offense under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1739, passed 6-10-24)
CHAPTER 113: RAFFLES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Restrictions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   Applicant restrictions
   
113.05   Application process
   
113.06   License fees
   
113.07   Raffle restrictions
   
113.08   Raffle Manager
   
113.09   Financial records
   
113.10   Maximum prizes
   
113.11   Ticket charges
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, all definitions contained in ILCS Ch. 230, Act
15 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes entitled The Raffle Act, hereinafter
referred to as the “Act”, shall apply in interpretation of this chapter except
when the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
(Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09)
§ 113.02 RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for
sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle except
as provided herein.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.020)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application
therefore with the City Clerk on forms provided by the City Clerk. Said
application shall contain the following information, but the City Council shall
have the authority to establish such rules and regulations providing additional
information or not requiring certain organizations to provide all of the
following information:
   (A)   The name, address and type of organization;
   (B)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated, the
date and state of incorporation;
   (C)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and date
of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager
and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
   (D)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the raffle;
   (E)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
   (F)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
   (G)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
   (H)   The area or areas in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
   (I)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
   (J)   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
   (K)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by its presiding officer, secretary, or a sworn
statement from the not-for-profit fund raising organization determining that it
is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
individual and identifying such individual or group of individuals and
identifying all individuals in such group and attesting that they are suffering
extreme financial hardship as a result of an illness, disability, accident or
disaster.
   (L)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   (M)   A fidelity bond in an amount equal to the aggregate retail value of
all prizes to be awarded shall accompany said application except if waived by
the City Council according to the provisions herein.
(Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09)
§ 113.04 APPLICANT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had during that entire five year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a non-profit fundraising
organization that the licensing authority determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any organization in which a person defined in subdivisions (1)
through (3) has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such
person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in subdivisions (1)
through (3) is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in subdivisions (1)
through (3) is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined herein.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.040) (Am. Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09)
Statutory reference:
   License; application; issuance; restrictions; persons ineligible, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 15, § 3
§ 113.05 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall review all raffle license applications, recommend
approval or denial and submit them to the Mayor or City Administrator within
ten days from the date of application. The City Council hereby grants the Mayor
or City Administrator the authority to accept or reject a raffle license
application and the Mayor or City Administrator shall, within 30 days from the
date of application, accept or reject a raffle license application. If an
application is accepted, the City Clerk shall forthwith issue a raffle license
to the applicant. A raffle license shall be valid for a period of 90 days from
and after its issuance unless the City Council has specifically authorized a
license for a longer period of time but in no event more than 180 days.
   (B)   A raffle license shall show the following:
      (1)   The area or areas in which raffle chances may be sold or issued;
      (2)   The period of time during which raffle chances may be sold or
issued; and
      (3)   The date, time and location on or at which winning chances will be
determined.
   (C)   Said license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location
of the determination of the winning chances.
   (D)   A license shall be valid for one raffle only; however, multiple
licenses may be issued for multiple raffles to a licensee.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.050) (Ord. 1185, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 1192, passed 7-16-
02)
§ 113.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be paid to the City Clerk when an application
for a raffle license is filed:
      Aggregate Retail Value of Prizes      Fee
      Less than $500            $5
      $500 or more               $25 plus ½ of 1% of the aggregate retail
valueof prizes with a maximum fee of $100.
   (B)   Said application fees are nonrefundable even should the application be
rejected by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to waive the license fees or
to grant any administrative personnel or officer of the City to waive license
fees in their sole discretion.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.090) (Am. Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09)
§ 113.07 RAFFLE RESTRICTIONS.
   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct the game;
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle;
   (C)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle;
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter;
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license, and the winning chances may be determined only at the location
specified on the license;
   (F)   No cash prize in excess of $ 10,000 may be awarded;
   (G)   Each raffle chance shall have printed thereon:
      (1)   The cost of said chance;
      (2)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in said
raffle; and
      (3)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued. However, when
raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued or otherwise transferred only at the
time and location at which whining chances will be determined and only to
persons then in attendance, the face of the raffle chance need not contain such
information.
   (H)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in conducting of
raffles or chances except with permission of a parent or guardian. A person
under the age of 18 years may be within the area where winning chances are
being determined only when accompanied by his parent or guardian. Any person
may make a gift of chance to any person of any age.
   (I)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued by the governing body of any county or municipality under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, § 4
   Municipal authority to impose regulations more restrictive than state law,
ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, § 2
§ 113.08 RAFFLE MANAGER.
   All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in an amount determined by the licensing authority in
favor of the organization conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of
his duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the licensing authority not less than 30 days prior to its
cancellation. The city may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver
provision in the license issued to an organization under this chapter, provided
that a license containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by
unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09)
Statutory reference:
   Manager; bond, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, § 5
§ 113.09 FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized
as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to license
therefore issued by the Department of Revenue of the state of Illinois and
placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its
raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for
other revenues of the licensee.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the city, its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   (D)   Raffle records shall be preserved for three years, and organizations
shall make available their records relating to the operation of raffles for
public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.080) (Am. Ord. 1397, passed 9-8-09) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Records, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, § 6
§ 113.10 MAXIMUM PRIZES.
   The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded in a single raffle shall
not exceed $60,000, and the retail value of any one prize awarded in a single
raffle shall not exceed $10,000.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.100)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.11 TICKET CHARGES.
   The price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold, offered for
sale, conveyed, issued or otherwise transferred for value shall not exceed the
following schedule:
      Aggregate Retail Value of Prizes         Chance Price
      Less than $100               $1
      $100 or more, but less than $500         $5
      $500 or more, but less than $1000         $10
      $1000 or more, but less than $10,000       $20
      $10,000 or more, but not to exceed $60,000      $50
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.110)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty. Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter shall constitute a violation; any person, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Abatement. The imposition of the penalty herein prescribed shall not
preclude the City Attorney from instituting appropriate action to prevent
unlawful raffles or to restrain, correct or abate a violation of this chapter
or of the conditions of a raffle license issued pursuant hereto.
(‘82 Code, § 5.50.020)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Cable and video service provider fee
§ 114.01 CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801,
the city hereby establishes a cable television system provider fee and the
provider of cable television to the city, currently MCC Illinois LLC, shall pay
an annual service provider fee to this city in an amount equal to 5% of annual
gross revenues derived from the provision of cable or video to households
located within the city.
   (B)   The service provider fee payment shall be due quarterly and payable
within 45 days after the close of the preceding quarter. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a brief report prepared by a representative of the provider
showing the basis for the computation. If mailed, the fee shall be considered
paid on the date it is postmarked.
   (C)   For the purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee,
“gross revenues” shall mean consideration of any kind or nature, including,
without limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received
by the provider, currently MCC Illinois LLC, for the operation of its cable
system to provide cable or video service within the city, including the
following: (i) recurring charges for cable service or video service; (ii)
event”based charges for cable service or video service, including, but not
limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges; (iii) rental of set-top
boxes and other cable service or video service equipment; (iv) service charges
related to the provision of cable service or video service, including, but not
limited to, activation, installation, and repair charges; (v) administrative
charges related to the provision of cable service or video service, including
but not limited to service order and service termination charges; and (vi) late
payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and other charges
assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
   (D)   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, “gross
revenues” shall not include: (i) revenues not actually received, even if
billed, such as bad debt; (ii) the service provider fee or any tax, fee or
assessment of general applicability; (iii) any revenues received from services
not classified as cable service or video service, including, without
limitation, revenue received from telecommunications services, voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services, information services, the provision of
directory or Internet advertising, or any other revenues attributed by the
holder to noncable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s
books and records and records kept in the regular course of business and any
applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders; (iv) security
deposits collected from subscribers; or (v) any amounts paid by subscribers to
“home shopping” or similar vendors for merchandise sold through any home
shopping channel offered as part of the cable service or video service.
(Ord. 1588, passed 2-26-18)
CHAPTER 115: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
115.03   Collection of tax by retailers
   
115.04   Returns to Department
   
115.05   Resellers compliance with other laws
   
115.06   Severability
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the terms and definitions listed in § 5-7 of the
Illinois Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636,
§ 5-7) shall have the same meaning set forth in such section, and § 5-7 of the
Act is incorporated herein by reference, as amended.
(Ord. 1573, passed 8- -17)
§ 115.02 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 5%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof
that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall
be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
Section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the
municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 5%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-state or multi-municipal taxation of the act
or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer,
upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another State or municipality in
this state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted
pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such
tax properly due and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid
in another municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a
credit against any other state or local tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Ord. 1573, passed 8- -17)
§ 115.03 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this State and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 1573, passed 8- -17)
§ 115.04 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   On or before the last day of February, 2018 and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-50) and any accompanying
rules and regulations created by the Department to implement the Act.
(Ord. 1573, passed 8- -17)
§ 115.05 RESELLERS COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this Chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this Section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this State shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 1573, passed 8- -17)
§ 115.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of
this chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence
shall not affect other provisions of this Chapter, or their application, that
can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1573, passed 8- -17)
CHAPTER 116: HOTEL TAX
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Tax imposed
   
116.04   Effective date
   
116.05   Collection
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to generate revenue to be placed in a fund to
generate tourism through the promotion of lodging, restaurants, attractions,
conventions, expositions, and theatrical, sport, cultural and other similar
activities and otherwise to attract nonresident overnight visitors to the city
or otherwise as may be permitted by law.
(Ord. 1257, passed 9-20-04)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of and as used in this chapter, unless the context
otherwise requires:
   CITY. The City of Fulton.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the city.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses, apartment houses and bed-and-breakfast houses.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any man or woman who occupies or has the right to occupy
any room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days for his or her
own personal use unrelated to the conducting of any business or occupation.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, or a receiver, executor,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   RENTER. Any person who pays for the privilege of using or occupying a hotel
room for the period for which payment is made.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
   TREASURER. The City Treasurer of the city.
(Ord. 1257, passed 9-20-04)
§ 116.03 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax upon all persons, firms or
corporations engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel which is located within the corporate limits of the city, at a rate of 5%
of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting for any
purpose for each 24-hour period or portion thereof, excluding, however, from
the gross rental receipts the proceeds of such rents, leasing or letting to
permanent residents. The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges applicable to such hotels, but such other taxes and
charges shall not be construed to be a part of the gross rental receipts upon
which this tax is levied.
   (B)   The ultimate incidents of and liability for payment of the tax levied
herein is upon the person engaged in the business of leasing, renting or
letting such rooms. Such hotel owners and operators may reimburse themselves
for their tax liability for this tax by separately stating such tax as an
additional charge to the lessee or renter, which charge may be stated in
combination as a single amount, with the state tax imposed under "The Hotel
Operator's Occupation Tax" (as provided in ILCS Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.).
No tax is imposed based upon receipts from any permanent residents of any
hotel.
   (C)   No person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms
in a hotel shall reimburse himself or herself or charge for the imposition of
this tax at a rate higher than the tax imposed by this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, on or before the
last day of each calendar quarter (calendar quarter shall mean three successive
calendar months), every person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel within the city during the preceding calendar quarter
shall file a return with the Treasurer, on forms to be supplied by the
Treasurer, stating:
         (a)   The name of the operator;
         (b)   His or her residence address and the address of the principal
place of business from which he or she engages in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel in the city;
         (c)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during
the preceding calendar quarter from renting, leasing or letting rooms during
such preceding calendar quarter;
         (d)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during
the preceding calendar quarter from renting, leasing or letting rooms to
permanent residents during such preceding calendar quarters;
         (e)   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts as
allowed by this chapter;
         (f)   Gross rental receipts which were received by him or her during
the preceding calendar quarter and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (g)   The amount of the tax due;
         (h)   The amount of the penalty due, if any;
         (i)   Such other reasonable information as may from time to time be
required by the Treasurer.
      (2)   The person subject to tax shall also transmit to the Treasurer with
the return required by this division, the amount of the tax and penalties, if
any, due as shown by such return. Such person shall also file with the
Treasurer, not later than five business days after such documents are
transmitted to the state, copies of all hotel operator's occupation tax returns
as are required by the provisions of ILCS Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.
   (E)   Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting of
hotel rooms shall maintain complete and accurate books and records, including a
daily sheet showing the gross receipts for the hotel rentals for the day
reported.
   (F)   For the purposes of enforcing and administering this chapter, the
Treasurer or such agents as are designated by the Treasurer shall, after
providing reasonable notice, have access during normal business hours to the
books and records of persons and businesses subject to this chapter. The
Treasurer or such agents as are designated by the Treasurer shall at least
annually inspect such books and records and shall file a written report of his
or her findings with the City Council no later than April 1 of each year.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 nor more than $500
for the first offense, and not less than $300 and not more than $750 for the
second and each subsequent offense during any 180-day period. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as having been committed each day upon which
such person shall continue any such violation.
   (H)   There is hereby created a "Fulton Tourism Promotion Fund" into which
the Treasurer shall place the proceeds resulting from the previous quarter's
collection of this hotel tax. The monies in this fund shall be utilized solely
and exclusively for the purposes set forth in §
116.01.
   (I)   This tax shall not in any manner constitute an indebtedness by the
city subject to any limitation imposed by statute or otherwise.
   (J)   Every person required by this section to file a return and pay a tax
hereunder shall pay a penalty for late filing of the return or for late payment
of the tax, and such penalty shall be equal to 5% for each month, or part of
month, in which the return shall be filed late, and 5% for each month, or part
of month, in which the tax is paid late.
   (K)   The Treasurer may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent
with the provisions of this chapter concerning the enforcement and application
of the provisions of this chapter. The term rules and regulations includes but
is not limited to, a case by case determination whether or not the tax imposed
by this chapter applies to any particular circumstance.
(Ord. 1257, passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 1293, passed 10-17-05)
§ 116.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter shall be August 1, 2006, and the first
taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence on August 1, 2006,
and the tax return and payment, by cash or check, payable to the City of
Fulton, for such periods shall be due on or before November 30, 2006.
Thereafter reporting periods and taxes shall be paid in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1257, passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 1293, passed 10-17-05)
§ 116.05 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as provided herein, the City
Attorney shall, upon the request of the Treasurer, enforce the payment of said
tax on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 1257, passed 9-20-04)
CHAPTER 117: UTILITY TAX - GAS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Tax imposed
   
117.03   Exemptions from tax
   
117.04   Tax returns; payment of tax
   
117.05   Credits for overpayments
   
117.06   Delinquent taxes; limits on collection
   
117.07   Effect of provisions
   
117.08   Suspension of imposition and collection of tax
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distributing, supplying or
selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, service and property of
every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith without any
deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied,
the cost of materials used, labor or service cost or any other expenses
whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10)
§ 117.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the city
and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
   (B)   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10; Am. Ord. 1561, passed 3-20-17)
§ 117.03 EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX.
   No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state or any political subdivision hereof nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas be subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for
such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions
of the Municipal Retailer's Occupation Tax Act authorized by ILCS Chapter 65,
Act 5, § 8-11-1.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10)
§ 117.04 TAX RETURNS; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or before June 30, 2010 each taxpayer shall make a return to the
City Treasurer for the months of March, April and May of 2010 stating:
      (1)   His name.
      (2)   His principal place of business.
      (3)   His gross receipts during those months based upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed.
      (4)   Amount of tax.
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding
three month period.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his tax billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 CREDITS FOR OVERPAYMENTS.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefore shall be so credited.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10)
§ 117.06 DELINQUENT TAXES; LIMITS ON COLLECTION.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10)
§ 117.07 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall take effect after publication, and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed on or after March 1, 2010.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10)
§ 117.08 SUSPENSION OF IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, herein; the City Council by
majority vote shall have the authority and power to suspend the collection and
imposition of all or any part of the tax imposed by this chapter on terms and
conditions as the City Council shall determine in its sole discretion. The City
Council shall also have the authority to nominate an employee or officer of the
city to effectuate the suspension of the collection and imposition of the
utility tax set forth in this chapter,
(Ord. 1670, passed 3-8-21)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent return or
who willfully violates any other provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750 and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due.
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-18-10; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 118: COLLECTING TAXES FOR ELECTRICITY USAGE
Section
   
118.01   Municipal utility tax on the privilege of using electricity based upon
kilowatt-hour usage of individual customers
   
118.02   Suspension of imposition and collection of tax
§ 118.01 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX ON THE PRIVILEGE OF USING ELECTRICITY BASED UPON
KILOWATT-HOUR USAGE OF INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
      CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Fulton.
      PERSON. Any natural, individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Any person having
or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other
affiliate, an office, generation, facility, distribution facility, transmission
facility, sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
person or its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located in this state
permanently or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other
affiliate is licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
      PURCHASE AT RETAIL. Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2), directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
      PURCHASER. Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits
of the city, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
   (B)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges. The privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the Municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
         (a)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.61 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (b)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.40 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (c)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.36 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (d)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.35 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (e)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.34 cents per kilowatt hour;
         (f)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.32 cents per kilowatt hour;
         (g)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.315 cents per kilowatt hour;
         (h)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.31 cents per kilowatt hour;
         (i)    For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.305 cents per kilowatt hour;
         (j)    For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: 0.30 cents per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   The rates set forth in Division (B)(1) of this section shall be
effective on September 1, 2017, for all customers.
   (C)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this chapter may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this
state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in
the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting
gas, water, or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting
messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail,
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for those
transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this chapter be imposed upon any
person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in
like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the
same class in the municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or
operated, or exercising the same privilege within the municipality.
   (D)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   (E)   Collection. The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
chapter and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity provided that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed a
credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges for which
are written off as uncollectible, and provided farther, that if such charges
are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit
such tax. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. Person delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
chapter shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this chapter. Any partial payment of a
billing amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to
be for the delivery of electricity.
   (F)   Reports to municipality. 
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, each shall make a return
to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   His name.
         (b)   His principal place of business.
         (c)   The kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
         (d)   Amount of tax.
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The person delivering the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
   (G)   Credit for over-payment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than
three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this chapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
   (H)   Penalty. Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 in addition, shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 1402, passed 1-18-10; Am. Ord. 1569, passed 7-17-17)
Statutory reference:
   Certain revenue taxes, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
§ 118.02 SUSPENSION OF IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the City Council by
majority vote shall have the authority and power to suspend the collection and
imposition of all or any part of the tax imposed by this chapter on terms and
conditions as the City Council shall determine in its sole discretion. The City
Council shall also have the authority to nominate an employee or officer of the
city to effectuate the suspension or the collection and imposition of the taxes
for electricity usage set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1671, passed 3-8-21)
CHAPTER 119: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1761,
adopted 5-12-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
Section
   119.01   Tax imposed; rate
   119.02   Collection of tax by retailers
§ 119.01 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of 3% of
the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of §
8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11/22).
(Ord. 1638, passed 9-23-19)
§ 119.02 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1638, passed 9-23-19)
CHAPTER 120: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   License required
   
120.03   License classifications and fees
   
120.04   Records
   
120.05   Application
   
120.06   Nature of license; transfer; expiration
   
120.07   Renewal of license
   
120.08   Change of location of business
   
120.09   Suspension or revocation
   
120.10   Subsequent awarding of licenses
   
120.11   Hours of operation
   
120.12   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
120.13   Administration; enforcement
   
120.14   Posting of signs
   
120.15   Advertising and promotions
   
120.16   Restrictions on personal use of cannabis
   
120.17   Limitations on possession of cannabis at certain locations
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. Cannabis, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parties of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis" does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. CANNABIS also means cannabis flower,
concentrate, and cannabis-infused products.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, dispensing organization, or transporting organization,
as such terms are defined in Chapter 155. A cannabis business establishment
also includes an infuser organization.
   INFUSER ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate
cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to produce a
cannabis-infused product.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to grow, cultivate, transfer, distribute, process, sell
or offer for sale in the city any cannabis without first having a license
issued by the city pursuant to this chapter, or in violation of the terms of
such license.
   (B)   An application for a license for the growing, cultivation, transfer,
distribution, process, infusion or sale of cannabis within the city shall be
made to the Mayor in writing, on the form or forms as prepared by the city, and
shall be signed by the applicant or a duly authorized agent thereof.
   (C)   The application shall, at a minimum, contain such information as is
required by the city and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable license fee
as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   No license shall be issued unless the applicant has applied for and
received a license from the State of Illinois for the growing, cultivation,
transfer, distribution, process, infusion or sale of cannabis as provided in
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, §§ 1-1 et seq.) and
all the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (E)   No license shall be issued unless the premises on which the growing,
cultivation, transfer, distribution, process, infusion or sale of cannabis is
proposed to occur complies in all respects with the applicable zoning
ordinances for the city.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.03 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES.
   Licenses for the growing, cultivation, transfer, distribution, process,
infusion or sale of cannabis within the city shall be divided into the
following classes:
   (A)   Craft grower license.
      (1)   A craft grower license shall entitle the licensee to operate as a
craft grower, as such term is defined in the city code.
      (2)   The initial fee for the issuance of a craft grower license shall be
$10,000. The license fee for the annual renewal of said license shall be
$10,000.
      (3)   There shall be issued not more than one craft grower license within
the city at any given time.
   (B)   Cultivation center license.
      (1)   A cultivation center license shall entitle the licensee to operate
as a cultivation center, as such tennis defined in the city code.
      (2)   The initial fee for the issuance of a cultivation center license
shall be $10,000. The license fee for the annual renewal of said license shall
be $10,000.
      (3)   There shall be issued not more than one cultivation center license
within the city at any given time.
   (C)   Dispensing organization license.
      (1)   A dispensing organization license shall entitle the licensee to
operate as a dispensing organization, as such tennis defined in the city code.
      (2)   The initial fee for the issuance of a dispensing organization
license shall be $10,000. The license fee for the annual renewal of said
license shall be $10,000.
      (3)   There shall be issued not more than one dispensing organization
license within the city at any given time.
   (D)   Processing/infuser organization license.
      (1)   A processing/infuser organization license shall entitle the
licensee to operate as a processing organization, as such term is defined in
this code, or as an infuser organization.
      (2)   The initial fee for the issuance of a processing/infuser
organization license shall be $10,000. The license fee for the annual renewal
of said license shall be $10,000.
      (3)   There shall be issued not more than one processing/infuser
organization license within the city at any given time.
   (E)   Transporting organization license.
      (1)   A transporting organization license shall entitle the licensee to
operate as a transporting organization, as such term is defined in this
chapter.
      (2)   The initial fee for the issuance of a transporting organization
license shall be $10,000. The license fee for the annual renewal of said
license shall be $10,000.
      (3)   There shall be issued not more than one transporting organization
license within the city at any given time.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.04 RECORDS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
licenses issued under this chapter.
   (B)   No license shall be transferable by the licensee to any other person,
firm or corporation.
   (C)   The fee to be paid for any license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be prorated based upon the period of time remaining on the term of the
license.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for a cannabis retail sales license shall be made to the
Mayor, on a form provided by the Mayor. Each such application shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant or by a duly authorized officer of an entity,
verified by oath or affidavit. In addition to the provided form, the licensee
applicant shall be responsible for submitting any additional information that
may be required by the Mayor.
   (B)   In addition to the application, the applicant or the managing partners
or officers of the owning entity of the applicant and the on-site managers of
the applicant must undergo a criminal background check, including but not
limited to finger printing under the direction of the Fulton Chief of Police or
his designee.
   (C)   An affidavit, executed by a duly authorized officer or managing
partner, stating that all members, officers, managers, general partners,
directors, stockholders or limited partners of the applicant owning 5% or more
of the applicant have no criminal convictions in any jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.06 NATURE OF LICENSE; TRANSFER; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   A cannabis retail sales license shall be purely a privilege, good for
a period not to exceed one year after issuance unless revoked according to law,
and shall not constitute property, or be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, or be alienable, assignable, transferable or subject to
encumberment, and shall cease upon the death, or insolvency or cessation of
operation of the licensee or the filing for bankruptcy protection.
   (B)   A licensee shall not enter into any agreement with a person or entity,
whether it be a lease, management or other agreement that would allow the
person or entity to utilize the license in the operation of the person's or
entity's business wherein the licensee maintains an interest of any kind
whatsoever in the license.
   (C)   If a licensee's business is inactive for a period of 90 consecutive
days, the license shall become null and void. For the purposes of this chapter,
the word "inactive" shall mean that the business has ceased operating or is not
open to the public. Should a license become inactive for 90 consecutive days,
the Mayor shall have the authority to reinstate the license.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.07 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any cannabis retail sales licensee may be renewed at the expiration of
its term by submitting an application for renewal to the Mayor and by paying
the applicable license fee, provided the applicant is qualified to receive a
new cannabis retail sales license under the then current requirements and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are zoned and suitable for
such purposes; and further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prohibit the
Mayor and City Council from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued in
the city. No license may be renewed unless the licensee and the licensed
premises are in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the city
code and all laws of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   The renewal application shall be on a form prescribed by the Mayor.
Additionally, all licensees or an authorized representative thereof, are
required to attend an annual meeting convened by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   A cannabis retail sales license shall permit the sale of cannabis only in
the premises described in the application and license.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.09 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued, if it is
determined by the Mayor, subsequent to a hearing in accordance with this
chapter, that the licensee has violated any ordinance of the City of Fulton, or
a law of the State of Illinois pertaining to the operation of the licensee's
business or the premises where it is located, or any regulation or rule that
has been established by the Mayor, which is not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Illinois.
   (B)   In addition to suspension or revocation, the Mayor may levy a fine on
the licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for
a first violation, $1,500 for a second violation within a 12-month period and
$2,500 for a third or subsequent violation within a 12-month period. Each and
every day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more
than $15,000 in fines under this chapter may be imposed against any licensee
during the period of the license.
   (C)   Every license issued under this chapter shall be valid from the date
of its issuance to the following May 1 of each year.
   (D)   If a license is not used by the licensee within a period of 180 days
from the date of its issuance, the license is subject to revocation in the sole
discretion of the Mayor.
   (E)   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter
for any one of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of the laws of the United States, the laws of Illinois or
any of the ordinances of the city;
      (2)   Permitting any violation of this chapter or any disorderly
practices upon the premises;
      (3)   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for the license;
      (4)   Revocation of the licensee's state license or permit issued
pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, §§ 1-
1 et seq.);
      (5)   The sale of cannabis to any person under 21 years of age; or
      (6)   Failure to pay a fine or costs imposed by this chapter within 21
days of notice of such fine or costs.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, a license
issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing conducted by the Mayor in
accordance with this chapter.
   (G)   The licensee shall be given written notice of such hearing, and the
Mayor shall afford the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend the alleged
violations.
   (H)   If the Mayor has a good faith belief that the continued operation of a
particular licensed premises will constitute an immediate threat to the welfare
of the city, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the
reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   (I)   The Mayor shall, within seven days after a hearing held pursuant to
this chapter, and upon a determination that the license should be revoked or
suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons
for such determination in a written order and the penalty imposed, and shall
serve a copy of such order upon the licensee.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.10 SUBSEQUENT AWARDING OF LICENSES.
   In the event the Mayor revokes a cannabis retail sales license or a cannabis
dispensary license is surrendered, the Mayor may decide to award the license to
another applicant whose application is on a wait list maintained by the Mayor
for consideration of awarding a cannabis retail sales license or may not award
the license and hold it.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.11 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Dispensing organization hours of operation; on-premises consumption
prohibited.
      (1)   Cannabis may be sold, delivered, transferred, or distributed on
about any premises holding a dispensing organization license only between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m, on Monday through Saturday of each week.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, cannabis may be sold, delivered,
transferred, or distributed on or about any premises holding a dispensing
organization license between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday,
but only after payment of an additional $2,000 for an extended hours license
fee, The extended hours license fee shall be in addition to the annual license
fee and shall be payable in conjunction with the issuance or renewal of said
license.
      (3)   All persons are prohibited from smoking, inhaling or consuming
cannabis in any manner at any retail tobacco store (as defined in ILCS Ch. 410,
Act 82, § 10 of the Smoke Free Illinois Act ) or any cannabis business
establishment, including dispensing organizations.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit licensees, their agents,
employees or independent contractors hired by the licensee to render services
to the licensee from being upon or within the licensed premises for the purpose
of cleaning, redecorating or repairing the licensed premises during hours when
otherwise prohibited, but provided that no sale, delivery, transfer,
distribution, giving away or consumption of any cannabis shall occur upon the
licensed premises during prohibited hours.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.12 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Every act or omission of every kind or nature whatsoever, constituting
a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director,
manager or other agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to
be the act of such licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same
manner as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
   (B)   No agent or employee of the licensee shall be disciplined or
discharged for selling or furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to a person
under 21 years of age if the agent or employee demanded and was shown, before
furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to a person under 21 years of age,
adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person. This section does
not apply if the agent or employee accepted the written evidence knowing it to
be false or fraudulent. Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the
person is a document issued by a federal, state, county, or municipal
government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a
motor vehicle operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the
Military Selective Service Act, or an identification card issued to a member of
the Armed Forces.
   (C)   Proof that the licensee or his or her employee or agent was shown and
reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction forbidden by
this chapter is an affirmative defense in any proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license based thereon.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.13 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor is charged with the administration of this chapter and such
other provisions of the city code relating to cannabis as may be enacted. The
Mayor may appoint persons to assist him or her in the exercise of his or her
powers and the performance of the duties provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for hearings to
determine whether any license granted under this chapter should be suspended,
terminated or revoked.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.14 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   All cannabis dispensaries must post the following sign on the property where
the establishment is located:
PURSUANT TO THE FULTON CITY CODE, IT IS UNLAWFUL TO CONSUME
ANY CANNABIS IN ANY PARKING LOT OR OPEN AREA ADJACENT TO THIS
CANNABIS DISPENSARY
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.15 ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   No cannabis business establishment nor any other person or entity
shall engage in advertising that contains any statement or illustration that:
      (1)   Is false or misleading;
      (2)   Promotes overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      (3)   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      (4)   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
      (5)   Makes any health, medicinal, or therapeutic claims about cannabis
or cannabis- infused products;
      (6)   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; or
      (7)   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing
to or encourage consumption of persons under 21 years of age.
   (B)   No cannabis business establishment nor any other person or entity
shall place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement
of cannabis or a cannabis-infused product in any form or through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a playground,
a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park or public
library, or a game arcade to which admission is not restricted to persons 21
years of age or older;
      (2)   On or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter;
      (3)   On or in publicly owned or publicly operated property; or
      (4)   That contains information that:
         (a)   Is false or misleading;
         (b)   Promotes excessive consumption of cannabis products;
         (c)   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
         (d)   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
         (e)   Makes any health, medicinal, or therapeutic claims about
cannabis or cannabis-infused products;
         (f)   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf; or
         (g)   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing
to or encourage consumption of persons under 21 years of age,
   (C)   No cannabis business establishment nor any other person or entity may
encourage the sale of cannabis or cannabis products by giving away cannabis or
cannabis products, by conducting games or competitions related to the
consumption of cannabis or cannabis products, or by providing promotional
materials or activities of a manner or type that would be appealing to
children.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, to "advertise" shall mean to engage in
promotional activities including, but not limited to newspaper, radio, internet
and electronic media and television advertising; the distribution of fliers and
circulars; billboard advertising; and the display of window and interior signs.
"Advertise" does not mean exterior signage displaying only the name of the
licensed cannabis business establishment.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.16 RESTRICTIONS ON PERSONAL USE OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   No person, regardless of age, may possess, use or consume cannabis in
such a manner as to constitute a violation of ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, § 10-35 of
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age, or to allow a
person under 21 years of age to purchase, possess, use, process, transport,
grow or consume cannabis except where authorized by the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act or by the Community College Cannabis
Vocational Pilot Program.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to undertake any task
under the influence of cannabis when doing so would constitute negligence,
professional malpractice, or professional misconduct.
   (D)   False identification. No person under the age of 21 shall present or
offer to a cannabis business establishment or the cannabis business
establishment's principal or employee any written or oral evidence of age that
is false, fraudulent, or not actually the person's own, for the purpose of:
      (1)   Purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or
attempting to obtain cannabis or any cannabis product;
      (2)   Gaining access to a cannabis business establishment.
   (E)   Liability of parent or guardian. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian to knowingly permit his or her residence, any other private property
under his or her control, or any vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his
or her control to be used by an invitee of the parent's or guardian child, if
the invitee is under the age of 21, in a manner that constitutes a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
§ 120.17 LIMITATIONS ON POSSESSION OF CANNABIS AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No person, regardless of age, may possess cannabis at the following
locations:
      (1)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
      (2)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      (3)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      (4)   In any city owned building or on any city-owned property;
      (5)   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
      (6)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises.
   (B)   Smoking cannabis in certain areas prohibited. No person, regardless of
age, may smoke cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act.
   (C)   Private businesses; prohibition on use of cannabis by persons lawfully
in possession of property.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent a private business from
restricting or prohibiting the use of cannabis on its property, including areas
where motor vehicles are parked.
      (2)   Cannabis may not be consumed in any parking lot or open area
adjacent to any cannabis dispensary for any purpose and in any form, including
but not limited to samples, tastings, edible products or byproducts or by
smoking.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require any person or
establishment in lawful possession of property to allow a guest, client,
lessee, customer or visitor to use cannabis on that property, including on any
land owned in whole or in part or managed in whole or in part by the State of
Illinois or the city.
      (4)   No person shall permit a gathering at their residence, or on
property owned by the person or under the person's control, where any one or
more person under the age of 21 ("underage persons") are in possession of or
are consuming any cannabis. No person that believes an underage person has
consumed cannabis shall allow that underage person to leave a residence, or
property owned by the person, or under the person's control, except when the
underage person is accompanied by the underage person's parent or legal
guardian. For the purpose of this chapter when the residence, or a property,
has a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence,
or property, is occupied or controlled by the tenant or lessee, There is a
rebuttable presumption that the owner or occupant of said residence, or
property, permitted such conduct, unless the contrary is established by a
preponderance of the evidence, even if said owner or occupant is not on the
premises at the time of the violation.
(Ord. 1672, passed 3-22-21)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   SEIZED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Aiding prisoners
   
130.02   Officer impersonation and obstruction
   
130.03   Cheating or fraud
   
130.04   Public intoxication
   
130.05   Obstructing access
   
130.06   Injury to public property
   
130.07   Solicitation
   
130.08   Curfew
   
130.09   Weapons
   
130.10   Tattoo parlors
   
130.11   Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons Under 21 Years of Age and Sale
and Distribution of Tobacco Products Act
   
130.12   Equal employment policy
   
130.13   Adoption of Illinois Criminal Code and selected Illinois criminal acts
   
130.14   Social hosting
Assault
   
130.25   Assault
   
130.26   Battery
   
130.27   Public fighting
Obscenity
   
130.35   Obscene acts prohibited
   
130.36   Nude bathing
   
130.37   Obscene publications
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.45   Disorderly conduct
   
130.46   Profanity
   
130.47   Disturbing assemblages
Fires and Open Burning
   
130.55   Open burning
   
130.56   Unlawful fires
   
130.57   Exceptions
   
130.58   Exception - burning yard waste
   
130.59   Burn barrels
Obstructions
   
130.65   Obstructing exits
   
130.66   Articles on windows
   
130.67   Scaffolds
Drug Paraphernalia
   
130.75   Definitions
   
130.76   Prohibition
   
130.77   Application
   
130.78   Violation - penalty
Truancy
   130.85   Truancy
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 AIDING PRISONERS.
   (A)   Aiding escaping prisoners. It is unlawful for any person to escape, or
attempt to escape, or for any person to aid or assist or incite any person to
escape or attempt to escape from the lawful custody of any police officer or
sheriff, or constable or any other person having lawful custody of such
prisoner.
(‘82 Code, § 9.02.010)
   (B)   Unlawful communication with prisoners. It is unlawful for any person
to communicate with any prisoner in the custody of any law enforcement
official, such prisoner being under arrest by the officer, without permission
of the officer having custody of the prisoner; provided, however, that this
section shall not be construed so as to prevent any person from having proper
representation by qualified legal counsel or so as to prevent such prisoner
from obtaining bail.
(‘82 Code, § 9.02.020)
(Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 OFFICER IMPERSONATION AND OBSTRUCTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer of the city without
lawful authority, and it also is unlawful for any person to interfere with or
hinder any officer or employee of the city while the officer or employee is
engaged in the duties of his office.
(‘82 Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 CHEATING OR FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obtain possession of
any goods, property or thing of value by any false proceedings or by cheating,
or by fraud, or by misrepresentation.
(‘82 Code, § 9.12.010)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic beverage on any public
street, sidewalk, or alley or in any public place open to public view in the
city.
   (B)   No person shall possess, on or about his person, any open container of
an alcoholic beverage on any public street, sidewalk, or alley or in any public
place open to the public view in the city.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall not
apply to any premises, public street, sidewalk, alley or any public place,
including a public place defined in divisions (A) and (B) (hereinafter
collectively referred to as the “premises”) for which a valid license, whether
temporary or permanent, has been issued for such premises by the city.
   (D)   No licensee or agent or employee thereof shall operate or permit the
operation of licensed activities under the terms of this chapter, except within
an enclosed building on licensed premises unless a variance has been granted as
provided herein and only during the time period for which the variance is
granted. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the power to grant a
variance to a licensed premises to conduct activities licensed under the
provisions of this chapter outside of an enclosed building and still on the
licensed premises for a period no greater than three days per month provided,
the Liquor Control Commissioner determines that the activities will not
adversely affect a residential neighborhood and will not reduce parking beyond
the levels required under any ordinances of the city and provided further that
if sound amplification equipment is to be used in the outside activities the
City Council must approved such variance by a majority vote.
(‘82 Code, § 9.30.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82; Am. Ord. 1049, passed 6-4-96;
Am. Ord. 1125, passed 3-7-00; Am. Ord. 1126, passed 3-7-00)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 OBSTRUCTING ACCESS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall review all raffle license applications, recommend
approval or denial and submit them to the Mayor or City Administrator within
ten days from the date of application. The City Council hereby grants the Mayor
or City Administrator the authority to accept or reject a raffle license
application and the Mayor or City Administrator shall, within 30 days from the
date of application, accept or reject a raffle license application. If an
application is accepted, the City Clerk shall forthwith issue a raffle license
to the applicant. A raffle license shall be valid for a period of 90 days from
and after its issuance unless the City Council has specifically authorized a
license for a longer period of time but in no event more than 180 days.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section the term "obstruct" encompasses but
is not necessarily limited to one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the free unhampered passage of pedestrians or
vehicles;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or other public place;
      (3)   Obstructing or otherwise interfering with the free passage of
persons entering or occupying such buildings or premises;
      (4)   Use of language, conversation or conduct which annoys, insults, or
disturbs any persons passing along the street or other public places or
occupying, residing or doing business in any of the houses or places;
      (5)   Refusing to move on when so requested by police officer, provided
that the police officer has exercised his discretion reasonably and under the
circumstances in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section the term "other public place" is
deemed to include the quasi-public area in front of or adjacent to any store,
shop, restaurant, luncheonette or other place of business and shall include
also any parking lots or other vacant and private property not owned or under
the dominion of the person charged with violation of this section.
(‘82 Code, § 9.34.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06 INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful to injure, deface or interfere with any property belonging to
the city without written permission of the City Council.
(‘82 Code, § 9.40.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.07 SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Permits. It is unlawful for any person to go from house to house
soliciting funds or contributions for any charitable, religious or educational
purpose or to publicly solicit in person or by agent upon a public street,
sidewalk or any other public place within the city funds or contributions for
any charitable, religious or educational purpose, whether presents, gifts,
money or promises are sought, without first obtaining a permit therefor.
(‘82 Code, § 9.50.010)
   (B)   Applications. Applications for charitable solicitation permits shall
be made to the Mayor, and no such permit shall be issued except on order of the
Mayor.
(‘82 Code, § 9.50.020)
   (C)   Business solicitation. It is unlawful for any person to go from house
to house soliciting funds or offering any type of merchandise for sale for a
noncharitable purpose and it shall be unlawful, either in person or by agent,
to publicly solicit funds or offer any type of merchandise for sale upon the
public streets, sidewalks or any other public place in the city for a
noncharitable purpose without first procuring a license for such purpose as
hereinafter provided.
(‘82 Code, § 9.50.030)
   (D)   Identification.
      (1)   Application shall be made to the City Clerk prior to the time that
the applicant desires to commence in such business. Such application shall
state:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and of each agent
soliciting on behalf of the applicant;
         (b)   The nature of the business;
         (c)   The kind of merchandise to be sold or the nature of the
noncharitable solicitation, and where the sales or solicitations are to be
made;
         (d)   The exact dates on which such sales or solicitations will be
made.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by valid, current
identification, bearing photograph of the applicant.
(‘82 Code, § 9.50.040)
   (E)   License fees. The license fee for a license for such noncharitable
vending or solicitation shall be as follows:
      (1)   For each organization or company, $50 per year.
      (2)   For each agent of a licensed company or organization, $5 per year.
(‘82 Code, § 9.50.050)
   (F)   Private premise. It is unlawful for any person to remain upon the
premises of another for the purpose of soliciting donations or vending
merchandise, whether of a charitable or noncharitable nature, after being
requested by the owner or the occupant of the premises to leave the premises.
(‘82 Code, § 9.50.060)
(Ord. 786, passed - -82; Am. Ord. 883, passed 7-5-88)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.08 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew for minors. It is unlawful for any person less than 17 years of
age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or
highway within the city at the following times unless accompanied and
supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at least
21 years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a
business or occupation which the laws of this state authorizes a person less
than 17 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday inclusive and 6:00 a.m. on
the following day.
(‘82 Code, § 9.56.010)
   (B)   Parental responsibility. It is unlawful for the parent, legal guardian
or other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to
violate division (A).
(‘82 Code, § 9.56.020)
(Ord. 564, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.09 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Carrying concealed weapons. It is unlawful for any persons to carry
any concealed weapon in the city, provided that this section shall not apply to
any law enforcement officer.
(‘82 Code, § 9.62.010)
   (B)   Casting missiles. It is unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile
from or into any public street, alley or other public place, or at, upon, into
or against any building, structure, premises or other property, other than his
own, or at any person.
(‘82 Code, § 9.62.020)
   (C)   Discharging firearms. It is unlawful for any person to discharge any
firearm or air gun within the city without first obtaining written permission
of the Chief of Police; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to
any law enforcement officer acting in the course of his official duties.
(‘82 Code, § 9.62.030)
(Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.10 TATTOO PARLORS.
   (A)   Any person other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all of
its branches, as either a physician or osteopath or a dentist licensed to
practice dentistry as defined in the Illinois Dental Practice Act, and other
than for medical purposes, who tattoos or offers to tattoo any person in the
city is guilty of a misdemeanor under the terms of this section.
   (B)   As used in this section, to “tattoo” means to insert pigment under the
surface of the skin of a human being by pricking with a needle or otherwise, so
as to produce an indelible mark or figure visible through the skin.
(Ord. 1130, passed - -00)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.11 PREVENTION OF TOBACCO USE BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE AND SALE
AND DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS ACT.
   The Illinois Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons Under 21 Years of Age and
Sale and Distribution of Tobacco Products Act, (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 675, §§ 1,
1.5 and 2), as may be amended from time to time by the State of Illinois (the
"Act"), is hereby adopted in its entirety, by reference, as though fully and
completely set forth in this section. Any other section of the Code of
Ordinances of the city in conflict with the Act as amended are hereby declared
void and ineffective and are hereby repealed. Any person, firm or corporation
that violates any provision of the Act adopted by this reference shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a minimum fine of not less than $100 and the maximum
fine shall not exceed $750. Each violation committed shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1634, passed 8-12-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term "minority" will refer to
American Indians, Asians, Blacks, or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as
youth, elderly, women, or persons with disabilities.
   (B)   The city hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce, and advocate for
all laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color, or national
origin.
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963 which covers all employees who are
covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act forbids pay differentials on
the basis of sex.
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of 40 and 65.
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and DOL Implementing
Regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination based on
disability.
      (8)   Section 167 of JTPA and the U.S. DOL Regulations at 29 CFR Parts 31
and 32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to
discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance form the Department
of Labor.
      (9)   Chapter 68, Article I, Section 17-19 of the Illinois Constitution
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
      (10)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 which prohibits any
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
their disability.
   (C)   The city will assure non-discriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   (D)   The city will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors, and the like, who are known to practice or establish a pattern of
discrimination based on sex, color, race, religion, age, national origin,
political affiliation or belief.
      (1)   The city will expect any contract for construction work, or
modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations, and orders of
the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remains in effect, which
is paid of in whole or in part with the aid of such financial assistance, to
incorporate the following "equal opportunity clause":
         (a)   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited, to the following:
employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment
advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The
contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of the
nondiscrimination clause.
         (b)   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, or disability.
         (c)   In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the rules, regulations, and orders, this
contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
         (d)   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal
opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by
the rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
   (E)   The city assures that it will actively seek to provide
nondiscriminatory outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   (F)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the city as well as
surrounding areas.
   (G)   The city will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
   (H)   All city employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and to
work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out city
program activities.
   (I)   The city designates the Mayor and City Council to carry out the EEO/AA
plan.
(Ord. 1149, passed 12-5-00)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.13 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE AND SELECTED ILLINOIS CRIMINAL
ACTS.
   (A)   Adoption of Illinois Criminal Code. Provisions of the State Criminal
Code, ILCS Ch. 720, are hereby adopted and by reference made a part of this
section with the same force and effect as though set forth herein verbatim.
   (B)   Adoption of part of Illinois Drug Paraphernalia Control Act. Section
2, Section 3.5, Section 4 and Section 6 of the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia
Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, are hereby adopted and by reference made a
part of this section with the same force and effect as though set forth herein
verbatim.
   (C)   Adoption of part of the Cannabis Control Act. Section 3, Section 4,
Section 10, and Section 16 of the Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550,
are hereby adopted and by reference made a part of this section with the same
force and effect as though set forth herein verbatim.
   (D)   Availability to public. Three copies of all three of the provisions in
divisions (A) through (C) of the criminal statutes of the state shall be and
remain on file in the office of the city for public inspection.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any provision of any
code or act adopted by reference in this section shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a minimum fine of not less than $100 and the maximum fine shall not
exceed $750. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1135, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 1504, passed 5-5-14)
§ 130.14 SOCIAL HOSTING.
   (A)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16 (a-1), as may be amended
by the State of Illinois are hereby adopted in its entirety and by this
reference made a part of this section with the same force and effect as though
set forth herein verbatim.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be subject
to a minimum fine of $200 and a maximum fine of $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 1495, passed 11-4-13)
ASSAULT
§ 130.25 ASSAULT.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in conduct which places another in
reasonable apprehension of receiving bodily harm or receiving physical contact
of an insulting or provoking nature.
(‘82 Code, § 9.10.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.26 BATTERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means cause bodily harm to an individual or make
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(‘82 Code, § 9.10.020) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.27 PUBLIC FIGHTING.
   It is unlawful for any person to fight in any public place in the city or to
use language having the direct tendency in incite immediate acts of violence by
the person or persons addressed, or to challenge to fight or urge another to
fight or in any threatening manner display any knife, pistol, blackjack, brass,
steel or iron knuckles, or any other deadly weapon.
(‘82 Code, § 9.10.030) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
OBSCENITY
§ 130.35 OBSCENE ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit any obscene act or to make any
obscene exposure of his or her person.
(‘82 Code, § 9.22.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.36 NUDE BATHING.
   It is unlawful for any person to bathe in a public place or in any place
open to the public view in the nude.
(‘82 Code, § 9.22.020)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.37 OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to sell or offer for sale or expose in any public place
or anywhere in view in a store or place frequented by the public any obscene
publications, written or printed matter, or pictures, or other representation.
It is unlawful to keep such publication, printed or written matter, pictures or
other representation in any place frequented by or where it might come into the
possession of any minor person, or to disclose or expose such material to a
minor.
   (B)   Basic guidelines for determining the obscene nature of any publication
or material are:
      (1)   Whether the average person applying contemporary community
standards would find the work taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   Whether the work depicts or describes in a patently offensive way,
sexual conduct specifically defined by state law; and
      (3)   Whether the work taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political, or scientific value.
(‘82 Code, § 9.22.030)
Penalty, see § 130.99
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.45 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Do any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmit in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (C)   Transmit in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
   (D)   Transmit in any manner to any peace officer, public officer, or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (E)   Enter upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately look into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it.
(‘82 Code, § 9.28.010) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.46 PROFANITY.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any obscene language or curse or use
any form of obscenity in any public street, alley or public building, or any
other public place in the city.
(‘82 Code, § 9.28.020) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.47 DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or gathering
in the city by making any loud or unnecessary noise, or by obscene language or
by rude or obscene behavior or by any other means calculated to disturb such
assemblage.
(‘82 Code, § 9.28.030) (Ord. 786, passed - -82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
FIRES AND OPEN BURNING
§ 130.55 OPEN BURNING.
   OPEN BURNING is defined as the burning of any material wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air,
without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(Ord. 1357, passed 10-15-07)
§ 130.56 UNLAWFUL FIRES.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials including leaves and yard waste on private or public
property, except as specifically authorized by this subchapter. No person shall
allow the accumulation or existence of combustible material that constitutes or
contributes to open burning.
(Ord. 1357, passed 10-15-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.57 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following types of open burning are allowed:
   (A)   The open burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and other cooking
fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices,
or campfires.
   (B)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes, such as school pep
rally fires or the celebration of scout activities. Recreational or ceremonial
shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products may be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
      (4)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance if
the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: five feet by
five feet by five feet).
      (5)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel storage
area.
(Ord. 1357, passed 10-15-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.58 EXCEPTION - BURNING YARD WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful to burn weeds, leaves, grass and any other yard
trimmings or yard waste (herein collectively "yard waste") except as permitted
under the following restrictions:
   (A)   It shall be lawful to burn yard waste in the city on Tuesday, Thursday
and Saturday only, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m. No burning
shall be permitted at any time under this exception on any Monday, Wednesday,
Friday or Sunday.
   (B)   Burning of yard waste shall not be conducted within 25 feet of any
structure or other combustible material.
   (C)   A garden hose or a bucket of water shall be readily available for use
at the burning site.
   (D)   Burning yard waste shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until the fire is completely extinguished.
   (E)   No person shall kindle, maintain or cause to be kindled or maintained,
any fire on or within two feet of any city right-of-way, street, avenue, alley,
drainage ditch, easement or park.
   (F)   The Fire Chief or his or her agent may prohibit burning of yard waste
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
   (G)   Burning of yard waste shall not create a visibility hazard on any
street, alley, sidewalk, railway or public right-of-way.
   (H)   All dry yard waste allowed to be burned under this section shall be
burned on the premises on which such yard waste is generated.
(Ord. 1357, passed 10-15-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.59 BURN BARRELS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no open burning of any
material of any kind or nature shall be allowed to be burned in a burn barrel
or similar type of device.
(Ord. 1357, passed 10-15-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 130.65 OBSTRUCTING EXISTS.
   It is unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway, aisle,
corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge, or other public hall, or any building used by
two or more tenants or families, in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(‘82 Code, § 9.44.010)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.66 ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   It is unlawful to place any movable article on any window ledge, or other
place abutting on any public street, alley, or sidewalk, or other public place,
at a height above four feet from the ground, in such a manner that the same
can, or is in danger of falling onto such street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place.
(‘82 Code, § 9.44.020)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.67 SCAFFOLDS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a manner that they overhang or can
fall into any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or place in
the city shall be firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded; and it is
unlawful to leave any tools or articles in any place in such a manner that the
same can fall into any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or place
from a greater height than four feet.
(‘82 Code, § 9.44.030)
Penalty, see § 130.99
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 130.75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug or controlled substance as defined under any
law of the State of Illinois or the United States of America.
   INSTRUMENT. A device used, designed for use, or intended for use in
ingesting, smoking, administering or preparing cannabis, cocaine,
phencyclidine, opium or any derivative thereof, or any other controlled
substance, and includes the following:
      (1)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic marijuana
(Cannabis sativa) or hashish pipes with or without screens, permanent screens,
hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      (2)   Water pipes designed for use or intended for use with marijuana
(Cannabis sativa), hashish, hashish oil, or cocaine;
      (3)   Carburation tubes and devices;
      (4)   Smoking and carburation masks;
      (5)   Roach clips;
      (6)   Separation gins designed for use or intended for use in cleaning
marijuana;
      (7)   Cocaine spoons and vials;
      (8)   Chamber pipes;
      (9)   Carburetor pipes;
      (10)   Electric pipes;
      (11)   Air driven pipes;
      (12)   Chilams;
      (13)   Bongs; and
      (14)   Ice pipes or chillers.
(Ord. 1385, passed 2-16-09)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.76 PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful for any person to have, possess, sell, offer to sell,
dispense or give away any instrument adapted for the use of smoking, inhaling
or ingesting any controlled substance.
(Ord. 1385, passed 2-16-09)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.77 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any person who has been authorized by the Department of Mental Health
and Developmental Disabilities, with the approval of the Illinois State Police,
to possess and deliver substances containing cannabis;
   (B)   Persons registered under federal law to conduct research with
cannabis.
(Ord. 1385, passed 2-16-09)
§ 130.78 VIOLATION - PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.76 shall be subject to a minimum fine of $300 in addition to any other
penalties provided by law. The general penalty provisions of §
130.99 shall not apply to violations of §
130.76.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty set forth in division (A) of this section,
any person convicted of a violation of §
130.76 shall be subject to revocation of a business license, including a liquor
license, if any, issued by the city to said person.
   (C)   A violation of §
130.76 is declared to be a public nuisance and shall be subject to abatement as
provided by law.
(Ord. 1385, passed 2-16-09; Am. Ord. 1408, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 1547,
passed 10-3-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
TRUANCY
§ 130.85 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Truancy prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person 18 years of
age or younger who is required by law to attend school and who is subject to
the compulsory attendance requirements of the Illinois School Code or enrolled
in a public, private or parochial school within the corporate limits of the
city, to absent him or herself from attendance at school during the hours in
which she or he is enrolled without parental or school permission. Any person
who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty of the offense of
truancy and be subject to the penalties set forth in §
130.99. Emergency or unforseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond
the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from school without
parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission for such absence
has been obtained from the parent and such permission is submitted in writing
to the proper school authorities within 24 hours of such absence.
   (B)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal
guardian or other person to permit a person in his or her custody or control to
commit the offense of truancy.
   (C)   Contributing to truancy. It shall be unlawful for any person 18 years
of age or older to perform any act of commission or omission which act
encourages or contributes to the truancy of any person.
   (D)   Defenses to truancy. All defenses and exceptions set forth in the
Illinois School Code for compulsory attendance or enrollment in school shall
apply as defenses to truancy under this section.
(Ord. 1494, passed 10-21-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not less than $200, nor exceeding $750. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
130.11 shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
130.04 or §
130.08 shall be fined not less than $200 and no more than $750 for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
130.09 shall be fined not less than and not more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
130.06 shall be fined not less than and not more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
130.27 shall be fined not less than and not more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
130.55 through
130.59 shall be fined not less than $150 and no more than $750 for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (H)   (1)   Any person violating §
130.85(A) shall be sentenced to perform not less than ten community service
hours for a first offense, not less than 25 community service hours for a
second offense and more than 50 community service hours for each offense
thereafter.
      (2)   Any person violating §
130.85(B) or (C) shall be fined not less than $50 for a first offense and not
less than $100 for a second offense, otherwise the general penalty provisions
of this Code shall apply.
      (3)   In addition to or in lieu of the penalties set forth hereinabove,
the parent of a truant person may be required to participate in a “parenting”
program, approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1155, passed - -01; Am. Ord. 1368, passed 4-7-08; Am. Ord. 1494, passed
10-21-13; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: SEIZED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLES
Section
   
131.01   Title
   
131.02   Purpose
   
131.03   Construction
   
131.04   Definitions
   
131.05   Vehicles to be seized and impounded
   
131.06   Administrative penalty
   
131.07   Commencement of impoundment
   
131.08   Notice of seizure and impoundment
   
131.09   Cash bond
   
131.10   Admission of liability
   
131.11   Administrative hearing
   
131.12   Defenses
   
131.13   Hearing officer fee
   
131.14   Administrative Review Law
   
131.15   Enforcement
   
131.16   Abandoned vehicles
   
131.17   Signage
§ 131.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Vehicle Impound
Ordinance of Fulton”.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to defer criminal activity and to offset the
costs incurred in the preparing, prosecuting, hearing, and disposing of
criminal and traffic cases, and recover the costs associated with the towing,
impounding, or seizing of motor vehicles used during the commission of
criminal, traffic, or other offenses within the corporate limits of the City of
Fulton.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   The following shall apply in construction of this chapter:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number; words used in the
masculine gender shall include the female gender; and such inclusive words
shall be reciprocal.
   (B)   The word “may” is permissive or discretionary.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning designated below, except when a particular context clearly requires
a different meaning:
   CITY. The City of Fulton, Whiteside County, Illinois.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Every officer authorized to make arrests and issue
citations for criminal and traffic offenses occurring within the city.
   LESSEE. The person authorized by a written lease agreement to possess the
vehicle and as properly registered with the Illinois Secretary of State, or if
registered in a state other than Illinois, as properly registered with the
administrative agency responsible for registration in that state.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
   REGISTERED OWNER. The record title holder(s) of the vehicle as properly
registered with the Illinois Secretary of State, or if registered in a state
other than Illinois, record title holder as properly registered with the
administrative agency responsible for registration in that state.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.05 VEHICLES TO BE SEIZED AND IMPOUNDED.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1758,
adopted 4-28-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   Any vehicle, regardless of whether the registered owner or lessee is
operating said vehicle, within the corporate limits of the city, shall, under
this section, be subject to seizure and impoundment, any time the vehicle is
used in connection with one or more of the following offenses:
   (A)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission of any
felony offense.
   (B)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, an offense for which a vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 (ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 36-1), as now enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   (C)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination. thereof, in violation
of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501, as now enacted and as amended from time to
time (unless the law enforcement officer, in his discretion, determines that
said vehicle may be released to a sober passenger or co-owner).
   (D)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Illinois Cannabis
Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550 et seq., as now enacted and as amended from
time to time, excluding ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4(a), which is not a criminal
offense; or
   (E)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570 et seq., as now enacted and as amended
from time to time; or
   (F)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of §§ 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1, 24-1.5, or
24-3.1), as now enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   (G)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to operate a
vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303, as
now enacted and as amended from time to time; except that vehicles shall. not
be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid
citation (parking or moving); or
   (H)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with soliciting,
possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled
substance, as defined by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, as now enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   (I)   Operation or use of a vehicle by a person against whom a valid warrant
is outstanding for which. the city is within geographical limits.
   (J)   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 1961 (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 16-0.1 et seq.), as now enacted
and as amended from time to time; or
   (K)   Operation or use of a vehicle in the commission of, or in the attempt
to commit, the offense of fleeing to elude a police officer, in violation of
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-204.1, as now enacted and as amended from time to
time; or
   (L)   Any other offense now codified or subsequently enacted, that directs
or authorizes a law enforcement officer to seize, impound, or tow the vehicle
in question.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. 1583, passed 2-12-18)
§ 131.06 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY.
   An administrative penalty in the amount of $500 shall be imposed on the
registered owner or lessee of any vehicle impounded under this chapter.
   (A)   The penalty is an established fixed amount for the actual
administrative costs incurred by the city agencies as the result of towing and
impounding of vehicles, and the preparing, prosecuting, hearing, and disposing
of criminal or traffic cases involving the use of vehicles and to deter
criminal activity in the city.
   (B)   The administrative penalty shall be in addition to: (1) any other
penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations;
(2) any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company; and (3)
any Hearing Officer fee imposed under Chapter 13.
   (C)   If there exists more than one registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle in question, each registered owner or lessee shall be jointly and
severally liable to the city for the administrative penalty.
   (D)   Any funds collected under this chapter as an administrative penalty
shall be used at the discretion of the Chief of Police, or his or her designee,
without need for appropriation, for law enforcement related activities
including but not limited to the purchase or maintenance of police vehicles,
equipment, or training.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
§ 131.07 COMMENCEMENT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever a law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to impoundment, under this chapter, the officer shall
provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the city. The
vehicle shall be impounded and held until such time as the administrative
penalty is paid or the vehicle is subject to release under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.08 NOTICE OF SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Upon seizure and impoundment, the law enforcement officer shall provide
notice as directed under this section.
   (A)   Initial notice. At the time the vehicle is towed, the officer shall
notify, or make a reasonable attempt to notify, the registered owner, lessee,
or person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle,
or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged offense, of the fact of the seizure, and of the registered owner’s or
lessee’s right to an administrative hearing.
      (1)   Any notice under this section shall be in writing, and said notice
shall indicate that the vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of
an administrative hearing, unless the registered owner, lessee, or a lienholder
of record posts with the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, a bond equal
to the administrative penalty and hearing officer fee, as provided by
ordinance, and pays for all towing and storage charges.
      (2)   The notice shall inform the recipient of the right to an
administrative hearing, and shall provide instructions on the exercise of that
right.
   (B)   Owner is passenger or driver. If a registered owner or lessee is found
to be a passenger or driver of any vehicle seized under this chapter, then he
or she shall be personally served with written notice under this section.
   (C)   Owner is not passenger or driver. If no registered owner or lessee is
found to be a passenger or driver of any vehicle seized under this chapter,
then the written notice shall be served on the registered owner or lessee,
either by personal service or by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (1)   All notices shall be served upon the registered owner or lessee
within five days after a vehicle is seized and impounded; and
      (2)   The notice shall indicate that the vehicle will remain impounded
pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the registered
owner, lessee, or a lienholder of record posts with the Chief of Police, or his
or her designee, a bond equal to the administrative penalty and hearing officer
fee as provided by ordinance, and pays for all towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.09 CASH BOND.
   The registered owner, lessee, or a lienholder of record of any vehicle
seized pursuant to this chapter may retrieve the vehicle seized prior to the
evidentiary hearing by posting a cash bond at the Fulton Police Department, in
addition to the payment of applicable towing and storage fees.
   (A)   The bond shall be an amount totaling the administrative penalty and
hearing officer fee established in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon posting of bond, the vehicle shall be released to the registered
owner, lessee, or the lienholder of record who posted said bond.
   (C)   Any bond posted under this section shall be retained by the Fulton
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, until the disposition of the
administrative hearing held under this chapter.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.10 ADMISSION OF LIABILITY.
   The registered owner or lessee of any vehicle seized pursuant to this
chapter may retrieve the vehicle seized prior to the evidentiary hearing by
admitting liability to the city for the administrative penalty, and, in
addition to the payment of applicable towing and storage fees, remits the full
amount of the administrative penalty established in this chapter. The admission
of liability shall be deemed a waiver of the administrative hearing, and upon
the entry of an admission of liability, any administrative hearing scheduled
shall be waived and cancelled.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.11 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   Subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-20.3, and in a manner
consistent with other statutes or ordinances regulating administrative
hearings, a registered owner or lessee may request an administrative hearing to
review the imposition of the administrative penalty under this chapter.
   (A)   Request for hearing. A registered owner or lessee of any vehicle
seized pursuant to this chapter may request a hearing within ten business days
of the date of seizure and impoundment or by the service of the notice of
seizure and impoundment, whichever is later.
      (1)   All requests for hearing shall be in writing and must include the
following:
         (a)   The name and mailing address of the registered owner or lessee
making the request for hearing;
         (b)   The name and mailing address of any registered owner or lessee
having an interest in the seized vehicle;
         (c)   The make, model, and registration number of the vehicle seized;
         (d)   The date and location of the seizure; and
         (e)   The identity of the driver who was operating or in control of
the vehicle at the time of seizure.
         (f)   All requests for hearing must be delivered to the Fulton Police
Department by personal service.
   (B)   Waiver of hearing. Unless the registered owner or lessee properly
delivers a request for hearing within the time allowed under this chapter, said
hearing shall be deemed waived, and any right to an administrative hearing
shall be forfeited.
   (C)   Notice of administrative hearing. Upon receiving a request for
hearing, the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall provide written
notice that the vehicle shall remain impounded pending the completion of an
administrative hearing, unless the registered owner, lessee, or a lienholder of
record posts with the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, a bond equal to
the administrative penalty and hearing officer fee, as provided by ordinance,
and pays for all towing and storage charges.
      (1)   This written notice shall be served upon the registered owner,
lessee, and any lienholder of record;
      (2)   The written notice shall be served either by personal service or by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address as registered with the
Secretary of State;
      (3)   All notices shall be served upon the registered owner, lessee, and
any lienholder of record within five business days after the request for
hearing is received; and
      (4)   The written notice shall contain the date, time, and location of
the administrative hearing. An initial hearing shall be scheduled not less than
seven days and no more than 45 days after the date of the mailing of the notice
of hearing.
   (D)   Administrative Hearing Officer. The administrative hearing shall be
conducted by a officer designated by the city, who is an attorney licensed to
practice law in this state for a minimum of three years.
   (E)   Responsibility for cost. The party challenging the imposition of the
administrative penalty shall be responsible for the costs associated with use
of the Administrative Hearing Officer, as described in this chapter.
   (F)   Appearance. The party challenging the hearing must appear personally
or through a licensed attorney at law. A failure of the challenging party to
appear shall result in a default ruling sustaining the vehicle impoundment.
   (G)   Opportunity to be heard. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing,
   (H)   Rules. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply and hearsay
evidence shall be admissible.
   (I)   Burden of proof. The burden shall be on the party challenging the
administrative penalty to prove one of the available defenses by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   (J)   Written decision. At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the
hearing officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling
the vehicle impoundment.
   (K)   Bond forfeited. If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained
by the Administrative Hearing Officer, any administrative penalty, hearing
officer fee, or bond posted to secure the release of the vehicle shall be
forfeited to the city.
   (L)   Payment of penalties and fees. Unless the Administrative Hearing
Officer overturns the basis for the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be
released to the registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of record until all
administrative penalty, hearing officer fees, and towing and storage charges
are paid.
   (M)   Release of vehicle. If the Administrative Hearing Officer overturns
the basis for the vehicle impound, the vehicle shall be released to the
registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of record challenging such penalty,
provided all towing and storage charges are paid. The Administrative Hearing
Officer shall not have the authority to waive towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.12 DEFENSES.
   At any hearing reviewing the imposition of the administrative penalty, the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall only consider defenses recognized by this
section.
   (A)   There shall only be three recognized defenses to the imposition of the
administrative penalty:
      (1)   The vehicle was stolen at the time the illegal item was found in
the vehicle, and the theft was reported within 24 hours after the theft was
discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
      (2)   The vehicle was operating as a common carrier and the violation
occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle was not used in connection with an offense described in
this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in division (A) of this
section, the following circumstances shall NOT constitute a defense to the
imposition of the administrative penalty:
      (1)   The registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of record was not the
driver of the vehicle during the commission of the offense in question;
      (2)   Any criminal charge related to the incident giving rise to the
impoundment has been adjudicated not guilty;
      (3)   Any criminal charge related to the Incident giving rise to the
impoundment has been dismissed or otherwise disposed of; or
      (4)   Any other circumstance not specified in division (A) of this
section.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.13 HEARING OFFICER FEE.
   The party challenging the imposition of the administrative penalty shall be
responsible for the costs associated with use of the Administrative Hearing
Officer. The fee shall be $450, and shall be used to pay for the costs
associated with the use of the Administrative Hearing Officer, subject to the
following:
   (A)   If the party challenging the imposition of the administrative penalty
posts bond under this chapter, the hearing officer fee must be included in said
bond.
   (B)   If the registered owner or lessee of any vehicle seized pursuant to
this chapter admits liability as provided in this chapter, provided said
admission occurs more than 48 hours prior to the scheduled administrative
hearing, no hearing officer fee shall be assessed. A failure to admit liability
and waive the administrative hearing in a timely manner will result in the
imposition of’ the hearing officer fee on the registered owner of the vehicle
in question.
   (C)    If no admission of liability or waiver of administrative hearing is
received prior to the deadline described in division (B) of this section, the
hearing officer fee shall be imposed on the registered owner of the vehicle in
question.
   (D)   If the Administrative Hearing Officer overturns the basis for the
vehicle impound, no hearing officer fee shall be assessed, and any previously
posted hearing officer fee shall be refunded.
   (E)   Every registered owner of the subject vehicle shall be jointly and
severally liable to the city for any hearing officer fee imposed under this
chapter.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. 1713, passed - -)
§ 131.14 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW.
   All administrative hearing rulings shall be subject to review under the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law, as codified as ILCS Ch. 735, Act
5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any administrative
penalty imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or in part
after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.16 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
60 days after the Administrative Hearing Officer issues a written decision
shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§
4-201 et seq.).
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
§ 131.17 SIGNAGE.
   The city shall post a sign at entrances which shall state substantially as
follows: “Vehicles subject to seizure in the City of Fulton for violations of
Chapter 131, §
131.05 of the Fulton City Code”.
(Ord. 1548, passed 10-3-16)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD PLAIN AREAS
      
152.   SIGNS
      
153.   TRAILER COURT PARKS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   FAIR HOUSING POLICY
      
157.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Construction Regulations
   
150.01   Definition
   
150.02   Fireproof construction requirement
   
150.03   Wooden structures prohibited within fire limits
   
150.04   Wooden structures; structural specification where permitted
   
150.05   Design specifications
   
150.06   Beams
   
150.07   Fire exits
   
150.08   Fire escapes
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.20   Definition
   
150.21   Dangerous building prohibited
   
150.22   Notice; abatement
   
150.23   Abatement procedure for damaged buildings
   
150.24   International Property Maintenance Code
Moving Buildings
   
150.35   Permit required
   
150.36   Daily fee for occupancy of public way
   
150.37   Bond
   
150.38   Warning devices
   
150.39   Interference with public utility wires, cables or poles; bond
House Numbering
   
150.50   System designated
   
150.51   Owner compliance requirement
Fire Limits
   
150.65   Fire limits designated
   
150.66   Construction requirements
   
150.67   Repair of damaged frame buildings; fire proofing requirement
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION means a
building in which all parts that carry loads and resist strains, all exterior
walls, all interior walls or partitions, all stairways or elevator enclosures
are made of incombustible materials, and in which all metallic structural
members are protected against the effects of fire by being imbedded in a
material which shall be entirely incombustible and a slow conductor of heat.
However, if the metal framework of the roof is more than 18 feet above any
floor or balcony it may be protected by a suspended ceiling of metal lath and
cement plaster not less than one inch thick, and if the metal framework of the
roof is not less than 25 feet above any floor or balcony, fireproofing of the
members of the roof framework may be omitted.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.010)
§ 150.02 FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENT.
   Any building or structure intended to be used as a theater, auditorium,
school or hospital shall be of fireproof construction. Any building used for
the storage of explosives, flammable liquids or for a dry cleaning
establishment, or which by reason of its use or occupancy shall create an
unusual fire hazard, shall be of fireproof construction.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.03 WOODEN STRUCTURES PROHIBITED WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   No wooden structures shall hereafter be built or placed within the fire
limits as described in §§
150.65 et seq., or as they may hereafter be established, except temporary
buildings or structures for the use of the builders or workmen during the
course of the construction.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.04 WOODEN STRUCTURES; STRUCTURAL SPECIFICATIONS WHERE PERMITTED.
   (A)   No wooden or frame building or structure hereafter erected outside the
fire limits shall exceed two and one-half stories in height nor cover a ground
area in excess of 7,500 square feet, except by special permission of the
Council. However, in no case shall a wood frame building be erected within five
feet of the side or rear lot line, nor within ten feet of another building,
unless the exterior wall nearest said other building shall be of masonry,
concrete or other incombustible material not less than three and one-half
inches thick, and the doors and windows next to such other building shall be of
metal frames and sash and glazed with wired glass.
   (B)   Buildings with wooden framework clad with sheet metal, covered with
stucco or veneered with brick shall be classed as wood frame buildings.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.040) (Ord. 573, passed - -64)
§ 150.05 DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
   The design for all buildings and other structures shall conform to good
engineering practice.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.050)
§ 150.06 BEAMS.
   Where floor beams, ceiling beams or roof beams enter a party or fire wall
from opposite sides, the ends of such beams shall be separated by at least six
inches of solid masonry or concrete. The ends of all wooden beams entering said
walls shall be cut to a bevel to make them self releasing.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.060)
§ 150.07 FIRE EXITS.
   All buildings, except private dwellings, more than one story high hereafter
erected shall be provided with at least two means of egress from the building,
as far from each other as the plan of the building will permit, or by a doorway
in a fire wall leading to another floor area which is provided with adequate
stairs or other independent means of exit; provided further, that no part of a
floor shall be more than 100 feet from an exit.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.070)
§ 150.08 FIRE ESCAPES.
   In addition to the exits required in §
150.07, every building of three or more stories which is used for residence
purposes by more than one family, or is used as a store, office or factory, and
every building of more than one story which is used in whole or in part above
the first story as a theater, school or auditorium shall be equipped with fire
escapes in conformity with the statutes of the state governing types,
construction, erection and location of fire escapes and exit doors, and with
the rules and regulations adopted by the Department of Public Safety governing
fire escape protection on buildings which are required to be equipped with fire
escapes.
(‘82 Code, § 15.04.080)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term DANGEROUS BUILDINGS means
and includes:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which because
of faulty construction, age, lack of repair or any other reason is liable to
cause injury by collapsing, or by the collapse of any part of such structure;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which because
of faulty construction, age, lack of repair or any other reason is especially
liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which because
of its condition, lack of repair, lack of doors or windows or any other reason,
is available to or frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not
lawful occupants of such structure.
   (B)   Any such structure is a dangerous building and is a nuisance.
(‘82 Code, § 15.08.010)
§ 150.21 DANGEROUS BUILDING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building
in the city, and it is unlawful for the owner, occupant or person in custody of
any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition,
or to occupy such building, or to permit such building to be occupied while it
is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(‘82 Code, § 15.08.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.22 NOTICE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the health officer, the Chief of the Fire Department or the
Chief of the Police Department is of the opinion that any building or structure
is a dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement to this
effect with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall thereupon cause a written notice to be served
upon the owner of such structure, if known, and the occupant thereof, if any,
by registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall be substantially
in the following form:
   “To (owner or occupant) of the premises known and described as
(description). You are hereby notified that the building on the above described
premises has been condemned as a dangerous building and a nuisance after
inspection by (Inspecting Officer). The causes for this decision are (insert
facts as to dangerous condition). You must remedy this condition or demolish
the building immediately or the City of Fulton will proceed to do so.”
   (C)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith or
taken appeal from the determination of the officer finding that a dangerous
building exists within ten days from the time when such notice is served upon
such person, the city shall proceed to remedy the condition of said dangerous
building or demolish the same.
(‘82 Code, § 15.08.030)
§ 150.23 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE FOR DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the fire limits of the city described
in §§
150.65 et seq. which may be destroyed to the extent of 50% of its value by
fire, decay or other cause shall be demolished, torn down and removed.
   (B)   Upon written notice by the health officer or Chief of the Fire
Department, filed with the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall notify the City
Council of the receipt of such notice.
   (C)   The Council shall then appoint three competent persons to determine
whether such structure has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value. A
copy of the notice of the appointment of such board shall be served upon the
owner and occupant of the premises, if known, or by registered mail to the last
known address of the owner or occupant. Such notice shall be substantially in
the following form:
   To (owner or occupant). You are hereby notified that (Inspecting Officer)
has determined that the building owned or occupied by you at (location) located
within the fire limits of the City of Fulton, has been damaged by fire, decay
or otherwise to the extent of fifty per cent of its value, and that a board of
three persons has been appointed to verify this finding, which board will hold
its first meeting in the City Hall in the City of Fulton on (date and time of
meeting) at which time it will determine whether this finding is correct.
   If this finding is verified by the board you must demolish or tear down, and
remove this building.
   (D)   If the board does determine that the building in question has been
damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, it is the duty of the owner of the
building to tear down or demolish and remove the building within 30 days after
finding of the board; and it is unlawful to occupy the building or to permit it
to be occupied after the date of the finding.
(‘82 Code, § 15.08.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.24 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   That a certain document which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of Fulton, Illinois, being marked and designated as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2024 edition (including Appendix A thereto and the
2024 Errata Sheet), as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Fulton, in the
State of Illinois for regulating and governing the condition and maintenance of
all property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of building and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such existing structures as therein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said
Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in
division (B).
   (B)   The following sections of the Property Maintenance Code are hereby
revised:
      Section 101.1 Insert: City of Fulton
      Section 103.1 Insert: Building Department
      Section 104.1 is deleted its entirety and replaced with the following
text: "104.1 Fees. Any code violations identified during a code official
inspection will be brought to the owner's attention in accordance with Section
107.2. When a compliance inspection is necessary, the first compliance
inspection shall be conducted and a fee of $150 shall be charged to the owner.
If the first compliance inspection determines that the violation has been
corrected and the owner is in compliance with the code, then the fee of $150
for said first compliance inspection shall be waived. If the code violations
remained uncorrected and additional compliance inspections are required, the
second compliance inspection and all subsequent compliance inspections will be
billed to the owner at a rate of $150 for the first hour and $75.00 per hour
per occurrence for every hour, or fraction thereof, after the first hour."
      Section 107.4 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following
text: "107.4 Violation Penalties. A person who shall violate a provision of
this code or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code shall be
punishable as provided in § 130.99 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Fulton, Illinois. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense."
      Section 108.3 is amended to delete the text "shall be subject to fines
established by the authority having jurisdiction" and replaced with the
following text: "shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, but not more
than $750."
      Section 302.4 Insert: 8 inches.
      Section 304.14 Insert: From April 1 to October 31
      Section 602.3 Insert: From October 1 to April 30
      Section 602.4 Insert: From October 1 to April 30
      Further, all references to any plumbing code within the Property
Maintenance Code shall refer to the Illinois Plumbing Code as amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 1737, 6-10-24)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move any building upon, through or over
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the city without having
first obtained a permit therefor from the Council. Applications for such
permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state thereon the proposed
route and the number of days it is intended that such building shall occupy any
portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
(‘82 Code, § 15.12.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.36 DAILY FEE FOR OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC WAY.
   Upon approval of the intended route by the Council, a fee of an amount to be
determined from time to time by the city for each day or fraction thereof that
it is intended that such building shall occupy any portion of such public place
shall be paid to the City Clerk, who shall then issue such permit.
(‘82 Code, § 15.12.020)
§ 150.37 BOND.
   Every person, firm or corporation applying for a permit under this chapter
shall submit with his or her application a cash bond with lawful corporate
surety to be approved by the Council, conditioned upon his or her compliance
with all of the provisions of this chapter, and agreeing to pay and to hold the
city harmless from any claim which may be made against it by reason of the
occupation of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place by the building
or structure being moved.
(‘82 Code, § 15.12.030)
§ 150.38 WARNING DEVICES.
   Whenever a street, alley or other public way is blocked by the building or
structure being moved, warning to that effect shall be placed so as to warn all
vehicles and persons approaching that portion of the street so blocked. The
person or corporation moving any building shall keep warning signs and lights
or lanterns at night so as to guard against any person or vehicle from
colliding with it.
(‘82 Code, § 15.12.040)
§ 150.39 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC UTILITY WIRES, CABLES OR POLES; BOND.
   Whenever it is necessary to interfere with any wires, poles or cables of any
public utility in moving a building or structure, the terms of any franchise
ordinance shall apply and the bond specified therein shall be given. If no such
terms apply, then the Mayor shall estimate the cost of replacing the wires and
bond shall be given to cover this.
(‘82 Code, § 15.12.050)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 150.50 SYSTEM DESIGNATED.
   All lots, buildings and structures in the city shall be numbered in
accordance with the following plan:
   (A)   North and south numbers shall commence at the north end of all blocks
lying immediately north of First Avenue, with the number one, with ascending
numbers running south.
   (B)   East and west numbers shall commence at the west end of all blocks
lying immediately west of First Street, with the number one, with ascending
numbers running east.
   (C)   Odd numbers shall be on the north and east sides of the streets.
   (D)   Even numbers shall be on the south and west sides of the streets.
   (E)   There shall be 100 numbers to each block; one number to each 20 feet
of frontage.
(‘82 Code, § 15.16.010)
§ 150.51 OWNER COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It is the duty of the owner and the occupant of every house, building
or structure in the city to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the
street, figures at least two and one-half inches high, showing the number of
such house or building.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to so number any house,
building or other structure occupied by him or her, after receiving notice from
the City Clerk to so number, shall be fined in the sum of $1 for each day
during or on which a failure to so number continues.
(‘82 Code, § 15.16.020)
FIRE LIMITS
§ 150.65 FIRE LIMITS DESIGNATED.
   All that portion of the city embraced within the following described
boundary is declared to be within the fire limits of the city; beginning at a
point on the western boundary of the city due west of the centerline of Sixth
Avenue in the city and running thence east to the centerline of Sixth Avenue;
running thence east along and upon the centerline of Sixth Avenue to the
centerline of Fourth Street; running thence south along and upon the centerline
of Fourth Street to the centerline of Eighth Avenue; running thence east along
and upon the centerline of Eighth Avenue to the centerline of Fifth Street;
running thence south along and upon the centerline of Fifth Street to the
centerline of Thirteenth Avenue; running thence west along and upon the
centerline of Thirteenth Avenue to the centerline of Third Street; running
thence south along and upon the centerline of Third Street to the southern
boundary of the city; running thence west along and upon the southern boundary
of the city to the western boundary of the city; running thence northerly with
the western boundary of the city to the place of beginning.
(‘82 Code, § 15.20.010)
§ 150.66 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful to construct or erect any building or structure within the
fire limits described in §
150.65 unless the exterior walls and roof of such building or structure are
constructed of, or covered with, nonflammable material; provided that this
shall not operate to prevent the construction of wooden porches, balconies or
ornamental work no higher than the second story.
(‘82 Code, § 15.20.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.67 REPAIR OF DAMAGED FRAME BUILDINGS; FIRE PROOFING REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful to repair any existing frame building within the fire limits
as described in §
150.65 after the same shall have been damaged by any cause to the extent of 50%
of the value of the building; provided, however, that any existing building
within the fire limits may be veneered with brick or stone.
(‘82 Code, § 15.20.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD PLAIN AREAS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Base flood elevation
   
151.04   Duties of the Enforcing Officer
   
151.05   Development permit
   
151.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
151.07   Protecting buildings
   
151.08   Subdivision requirements
   
151.09   Public health and other standards
   
151.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
151.11   Variances
   
151.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2,
11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in this section.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CITY. The City of Fulton, Whiteside County, Illinois.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals retirement homes and
senior care facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites
(telephone switching stations or electrical transformers, and hazardous
material storage facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic
substances).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to real estate including, but not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
      (2)   substantial improvement of an existing building;
      (3)   installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
      (4)   installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects;
      (5)   construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
      (6)   drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving,
or other alterations of the ground surface;
      (7)   storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings
and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the city, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be
annexed into the city, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
FLOODPLAINS of the city are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 20
and 135 of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Whiteside County prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017.
FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the
community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Whiteside County
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be
annexed into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance
Rate map prepared for Whiteside County by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated February 17, 2017.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of the Mississippi River shall be
as delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Whiteside County
prepared by FEMA and dated February 17, 2017. The
FLOODWAYS for each of the remaining floodplains of the city shall be according
to the best data available from the federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department. (Ill Admin. Code tit.
17, pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
151.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
151.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during a ten year period equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred regardless
of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included
in this determination. The term includes “Repetitive Loss Buildings” (see
definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place during a ten year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term
does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Mississippi River
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide Flood
Insurance Study of Whiteside County prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county
wide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Whiteside County.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
Whiteside County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Whiteside County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the City or that may be annexed into the City shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
Whiteside County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
February 17, 2017.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF THE ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Enforcing Officer shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, Enforcing Officer shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
151.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
151.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
151.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
151.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
151.13 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Enforcing Officer. The Enforcing Officer shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.07 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Enforcing Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to
be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not
identified as floodplain on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map, is subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be
shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and
which has not been filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The Enforcing Officer shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
      (3)   The Enforcing Officer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Enforcing Officer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in §
151.06(B) of this chapter, no development shall be allowed which, acting in
combination with existing and anticipated development will cause any increase
in flood heights or velocities or threat to public health and safety. The
following specific development activities shall be considered as meeting this
requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall Structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13;
      (13)   Any Development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from State Floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in §
151.06(A) may be permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)    In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
151.06 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)    Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000) or 70 square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively during
a ten-year period. If substantially improved, the existing structure and the
addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten-year period. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage).
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   All components located below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         (c)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation, and
         (e)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            2.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            3.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with §
151.07(B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of §
151.07(D) unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model, and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage of shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24'x24').
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are known,
in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
151.06 and
151.07 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a Licensed Professional Engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
151.06 and
151.07 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
151.07 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permitted within the floodplain only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall be elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the 500-year
flood frequency elevation. In situations where a 500-year flood elevation has
not been determined the flood protection elevation shall be three feet above
the 100 year flood frequency elevation. Floodproofing and sealing measures must
be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released
into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base
flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities in writing 30
days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the City Zoning Board of
Appeals for a variance. The City Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
City Council. The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The City Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of
§
151.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100) of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
151.07 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
HISTORIC STRUCTURES, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
151.06 and
151.07 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   Agriculture.
      (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at-grade and wet-floodproofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
151.07 of this chapter.
         (d)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in
accordance with §
151.07 of this chapter. All of the building’s structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
151.07 of this chapter.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
151.07(B) this chapter.
         (g)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
151.06 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This ordinance does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including the
Flood Plain Ordinance passed on January 17, 2011. However, this chapter does
not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility
in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning Officer may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
Zoning Officer shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the ordinance;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Officer shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the City Zoning Board of Appeals. Written
notice of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 1558, passed 1-3-17)
CHAPTER 152: BILLBOARDS; SIGNS
Section
Billboards
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   General regulation
   
152.03   Regulation of signs in single-family dwelling districts and one-half
acre single-family dwelling districts
   
152.04   Regulation of signs in multiple-family dwelling districts
   
152.05   Regulation of signs in business district
   
152.06   Regulation of signs in industry districts
   
152.07   Special event signs
   
152.08   Signs encroaching on a street or city property
   
152.09   Signs along primary highways
BILLBOARDS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined
as set forth in this chapter. Words used in the present tense shall include the
future; the singular number shall include the plural and the plural the
singular, and the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
   (B)   All terms or words defined in §
155.001 shall have the same meaning in this chapter and all such definitions
shall be included by reference in this chapter as if fully set forth in this
section.
      BILLBOARD . Any signboard or similar structure, the sole or primary
purpose of which is the use for displaying of advertisements or notices.
      NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION . A charitable organization, educational
organization, fraternal organization or labor organization as defined in §
113.01 regulating raffles.
      PORTABLE SIGN . A single or multi-surface type sign or some variation
thereof which is temporary in nature, may or may not be mounted on wheels,
easily movable and not permanently attached thereto.
      SIGN . Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication,
provided wholly or in part by the construction, erection, affixing, or placing
of a structure on any land, or on any other structure, or produced by painting
on, posting, or placing any printed, lettered, pictured, figured or colored
material on any building, structure, or surface.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.02 GENERAL REGULATION.
   The regulations contained in this section shall apply to and regulate all
signs in all districts. No new or existing signs, awnings or other advertising
device, including signs painted on the vertical surface of a structure, shall
be located, replaced, erected or maintained except in compliance with the
following general regulations:
   (A)   Building permits are required for all new signs and all existing signs
if the location or total area of the existing sign is changed or altered.
   (B)   Signs for a business shall contain only the name of the business
establishment or the principal business conducted on the premises and may
include any motto, slogan, insignia or combination thereof.
   (C)   When a sign is illuminated, the light or lights shall be shaded or
concealed so that they will not interfere with the vision of an operator of a
motor vehicle on any street or private drive or shine directly on any dwelling.
   (D)   All signs and sign structures shall be erected and maintained in a
safe condition. It is the responsibility of the sign owner, property owner and
proprietor of the real estate on which the sign is located (hereinafter
collectively referred to as the owner), to properly maintain all signs. The
area around the base of the sign shall be kept free and clear of all weeds,
debris, trash and other refuse.
   (E)   When a business closes or if a sign is considered a hazard by the
Zoning Enforcing Officer, the owner shall repair or remove the sign. If the
owner refuses or neglects to repair or remove the sign, the city, 30 days after
written notification, may remove the dangerous or abandoned sign and the owner
shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the city in removal of the sign
and the owner by erecting or maintaining the sign hereby grants the city the
legal authority to enter the property of the owner to remove such sign.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided, all signs shall be erected and maintained
upon private property. Nothing in this chapter shall grant any person or entity
the right to erect or maintain a sign on city property or a street.
   (G)   Signs located within 20 feet of a corner street lot line intersection
shall be erected and maintained such that an unobscured visual sight area is
provided for operators of motor vehicles on a street or private drive. Such
unobscured area, at a minimum, shall extend from a distance of two and one-half
feet above finished street grade to ten feet above said grade. No more than two
poles or post supports of no more than ten inches in diameter shall be
permitted within such unobscured area. The opinion of the Zoning Officer shall
control all decisions regarding the obscuring nature of any sign or sign
structure.
   (H)   Unless otherwise permitted in this chapter, no part of any sign which
projects into or over a street shall violate §§
92.120 et seq., and over any pedestrian right-of-way shall have a minimum
height of not less than seven feet.
   (I)   No sign or sign structure other than an official traffic sign, traffic
control device, street sign or other sign approved by the city shall be placed
on or shall overhang any street or property owned by the city.
   (J)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected at any location if in the
opinion of the Zoning Enforcing Officer, by reason of its size, shape, design,
location, content, color or manner of illumination, it may constitute a traffic
hazard by obstructing the vision of drivers or by obscuring or otherwise
physically interfering with a traffic control device.
   (K)   No signs or poles which contain or consist of reflectors or lights
which flash, strobe or resemble emergency lights shall be permitted. No lights
simulating movement shall be permitted exceeding 11 watts. This prohibition
does not exclude electronic message boards. No sign may be lighted in a manner
which impairs the vision of any operator of any motor vehicle on a street or
private drive.
   (L)   No sign shall be attached to or placed on any vehicle or trailer
parked on public or private property that is visible from a street. This
prohibition does not prohibit the identification of a firm or its principal
products on a vehicle operating during the normal course of business or driven
home by an owner or employee.
   (M)   No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct reasonable ingress or
egress from any door, window or any other exit way required by the Fire
Prevention Code of the city or any other ordinances.
   (N)   No sign may imitate or resemble any official traffic control device,
sign or signal.
   (O)   No sign that revolves or that utilizes movement or apparent movement
to attract attention to the sign that could cause a distraction to an operator
of a motor vehicle on a street shall be permitted.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.03 REGULATION OF SIGNS IN SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICTS AND ONE-HALF
ACRE SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs in a single-family
dwelling district and one-half acre single-family dwelling district and only
signs permitted in this section shall be permitted in a single-family dwelling
district and one-half acre single-family dwelling district:
   (A)   Home occupations. Any building in which a lawful home occupation is
conducted may have one unlighted name plate flat against the building not
exceeding two square feet in area, stating only the resident's name and
occupation.
   (B)   Any building permitted under the single-family dwelling district and
one-half acre single-family dwelling district, other than a dwelling, but not
including home occupation and legal nonconforming uses, shall be permitted one
non-illuminated identification sign per building with a surface area not
exceeding 12 square feet, denoting only the name and address of the building
and name of management, and shall be erected flat against the building. In
addition, one bulletin board ground sign shall be permitted for a church,
school, or other similar institution for the purpose of displaying its name and
activities or services. Such signs shall not exceed 36 square feet and may be
lighted with indirect lighting only. Signs must be located on the same lot as
the building.
   (C)   The following portable signs may be erected without applying for a
building permit:
      (1)   Portable signs pertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building
or land. Such signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area and shall be
located not less than 10 feet from any property line. Such signs must be
removed within 10 days after completion of the sale or lease of the building or
land.
      (2)   Portable signs identifying construction or improvements taking
place on the property. Signs shall not exceed 36 square feet in area and must
be removed within five days after completion of the work.
      (3)   Portable signs announcing candidates seeking public office or
pertinent political issues are permitted during the period beginning 21 days
prior to an official election day and ending 7 days after the election day.
      (4)   Temporary signs identifying vacant lots for sale in a subdivision
shall be permitted in a size not to exceed 48 square feet.
      (5)   Special event signs are permitted under §
152.07.
   (D)   Signs designating accessory parking area entrances and exits are
limited to one sign for each exit or entrance and a maximum surface area of two
square feet for each sign. One sign per parking area, designating the condition
of use or identity of such parking area and limited to a maximum area of nine
square feet shall be permitted for each street frontage. Such signs shall not
be located or constructed in a manner which would constitute a safety hazard to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic by causing visual interference. Maximum height
of the signs shall not exceed 12 feet.
   (E)   Signs identifying a subdivision or condominium development are limited
to 36 square feet in area and shall not be higher than 12 feet. One sign is
permitted for each entrance to the subdivision or condominium development.
Signs can be illuminated with indirect lighting only.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.04 REGULATION OF SIGNS IN MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs in a multiple-family
dwelling district and only signs permitted in this section shall be permitted
in a multiple-family dwelling district:
   (A)   Any sign permitted in a single-family dwelling district subject to all
the regulations as provided in §
152.03.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, buildings in a multiple-
family dwelling district are permitted signs indicating only the name and/or
address of the building, name and location of any management office or
management information. Furthermore, all signs shall not exceed 36 square feet
or be higher than 12 feet and must be at least 20 feet from any property lines
adjacent to any building in a single-family dwelling district or one-acre
single-family dwelling district.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.05 REGULATION OF SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs in a business district
and only signs permitted in this section shall be permitted in a business
district:
   (A)   Subject to the limitations set forth in this section, the maximum area
of all permitted signs on corner lots shall not exceed 600 square feet and the
maximum area of all signs on interior lots shall not exceed 400 square feet.
   (B)   Each developed lot having frontage on a street is permitted to have
one fascia sign and one projecting sign along such street or the projecting
sign may exist instead of but not in addition to a free standing ground sign or
a roof sign.
   (C)   Subject to all other applicable regulations, the following signs are
permitted in a business district:
      (1)   Any sign permitted in a single-family dwelling district or a
multiple-family dwelling district.
      (2)   One free standing ground sign for each developed lot having
frontage on a street, not to exceed two square feet of sign area for each
linear foot of street frontage abutting the lot. The sign area shall not exceed
200 square feet. Height of the sign shall not exceed 35 feet.
      (3)   One wall or fascia sign for each business operating in any building
or lot, not to exceed a total copy area of two square feet for each linear foot
of the building occupied by such business. If such occupancy is on a corner,
one wall or fascia sign will be permitted for each store frontage. If the
building includes a canopy, each occupancy will be permitted one under-canopy
sign.
      (4)   One roof sign shall be permitted for each developed lot. Said sign
shall not exceed three square feet of copy area for each linear foot of
building frontage which is parallel to the sign placement direction or 200
square feet total, whichever is less.
      (5)   One projecting sign is permitted within a developed parcel for each
street lot frontage and it shall not exceed a total area of two square feet for
each linear foot of building occupancy. Said projecting sign may not extend
more than 10 feet horizontally from the building to which it is attached.
      (6)   Gasoline filling stations are permitted one double-faced free
standing sign, not over 18 inches in thickness on which shall be advertised
only the trade name of the product offered for sale. The area of a double-faced
sign shall be the area of one face of the sign and shall be included as part of
the permitted area. Height of the sign shall not exceed 35 feet.
      (7)   One directional sign is permitted for each exit and entrance to
each street frontage. Each sign shall not exceed two square feet in area and
shall not be considered as part of the total allowable sign area permitted. The
maximum permitted height for such signs is 12 feet above the street grade.
      (8)   Signs on awnings, canopies and marquees shall be affixed flat to
the surface thereof and shall not be illuminated. These types of signs shall be
exempt from the limitations applied to projecting signs.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.06 REGULATION OF SIGNS IN INDUSTRY DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs in an industry district
and only signs permitted in this section shall be permitted in an industry
district:
   (A)   Any sign permitted in a business district.
   (B)   In addition to permitted signs, one additional name sign or sign
advertising products sold on the premises may be erected provided the sign does
not exceed 36 feet in area and contains no flashing, moving or intermittent
illumination.
   (C)   Signs along primary highways permitted in §
152.09.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.07 SPECIAL EVENT SIGNS.
   Special event signs are defined as portable signs placed on private property
for the purpose of informing the public of upcoming events, open houses, grand
openings, or special sale events. Although building permits are not required,
placement of special event signs are subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Special events sponsored by non-profit organizations that are open to
the general public including, but not limited to, fairs, festivals, dinners,
special days and commemorative celebrations. These signs shall not contain any
advertisement for a product or service offered for sale. These signs may be
placed in any district on private property, but not earlier than 21 days
preceding the event and shall be removed not later than 7 days following the
end of the event.
   (B)   Special sale and grand opening signs shall be permitted only in
Business and Industrial Districts and may be displayed no more than 15
consecutive days prior to the event but not more than four times in a calendar
year. Signs must be removed immediately upon termination of the sale or event
they advertise.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.08 SIGNS ENCROACHING ON A STREET OR CITY PROPERTY.
   No sign shall be erected on or overhang on any city street or property owned
by the city except as may be granted by the City Council and any such permitted
sign shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   The owner of any sign permitted under this subsection shall deposit
with the City Clerk a public liability policy of insurance issued by a company
authorized to transact business in the state for a principal sum of not less
than $100,000 liability to any one person, and shall carry an endorsement
indemnifying the city from any liability of any kind or nature. Should such
insurance be terminated for any reason, the building permit for said sign shall
be automatically revoked and the sign shall be immediately removed.
   (B)   No sign or part of a sign shall be permitted to be erected on or
overhang the traveled portion of any street.
   (C)   Any wall or fascia sign, projecting sign, or signs on awnings,
canopies and marquees permitted under §
152.05 may overhang a street, excluding the traveled portion of the street.
   (D)   No sign, awning, canopy or other similar structure may extend over any
public property without City Council approval more than ten feet or beyond a
vertical plane two feet from the curb line on the property side.
   (E)   The total area of a projecting sign shall not exceed one and one-half
square feet for each linear foot of building frontage facing the right-of-way
or a maximum of 150 square feet.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
§ 152.09 SIGNS ALONG PRIMARY HIGHWAYS.
   All signs located along primary highways within the city must comply in
addition to all regulations under this chapter to the requirements in ILCS Ch.
225, Act 440. Illinois Route 136 shall be designated as a primary highway in
the city. The following additional requirements shall apply to all signs along
a primary highway:
   (A)   Informational or directional signs. Request for an informational or
directional sign by a non-profit organization may be approved by action of the
City Council. All requests shall be in writing and the decision of the City
Council shall be final. The size of such signs shall be limited to one square
foot and will be placed on existing street sign posts by the city. The
organization requesting the sign shall be responsible for the cost of the sign
and any cost of erecting the sign.
   (B)   State permit required. Nothing in this chapter shall limit any
requirements for state approval for a sign along a primary highway.
   (C)   Off-premises sign control. Any off-premises signs must conform to the
permit, zoning, size, lighting and spacing criteria of the state and the city.
(Ord. 1182, passed 3-19-02)
CHAPTER 153: TRAILER COURT PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Exceptions
Licenses
   
153.15   Application
   
153.16   Plan
   
153.17   Fee
   
153.18   Restrictions
Regulations
   
153.30   Attendant requirement
   
153.31   Spaces
   
153.32   Water supply
   
153.33   Sanitary facilities
   
153.34   Garbage removal
   
153.35   Lighting
   
153.36   Streets and driveways
   
153.37   Additional regulations
   
153.38   Habitation of trailer coach unlawful outside of licensed camp
   
153.39   Nonconforming uses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle or similar portable structure constructed so as
to permit its being used as a conveyance on a public street and so as to permit
the occupancy thereof as a dwelling by one or more persons.
   TRAILER COACH PARK. An area of land on which two or more occupied trailer
coaches are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue, together with any
building structure or enclosure used as part of the equipment of such park.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.010) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
§ 153.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
trailer coach for any length of time when the trailer coach is not used for
living or sleeping purposes.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.160) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
LICENSES
§ 153.15 APPLICATION.
   It is unlawful to establish, maintain or operate any trailer coach park in
the city without first having obtained a license therefor. Application for such
licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk in compliance with the
ordinances relating to license applications and shall contain the name of the
applicant, the location of the proposed park and the number of trailers to be
accommodated.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.020) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.16 PLAN.
   Each such application shall be accompanied by a plat or sketch showing the
size and location of all buildings and structures.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.030) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
§ 153.17 FEE.
   (A)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be an amount as determined from
time to time by the city for each trailer coach over 20 for which
accommodations are provided.
   (B)   Whenever the numbers of such accommodations are increased, this shall
be reported to the Clerk and the additional fee, if any, necessitated by such
increase shall be paid before the additional spaces are put to use.
   (C)   When a license is applied for or accommodations are increased during
the license year, the fee shall be pro-rated on the basis of the number of
months remaining in the license year.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.040) (Ord. 515, passed - -59; Ord. 628, passed - -69)
§ 153.18 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character,
nor to any corporation if any officer thereof is not a person of good
character.
   (B)   It is unlawful to hire or keep as manager, superintendent or person in
charge of a trailer coach park any person who is not a person of good character
or any person who has been convicted of a felony.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.050) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
REGULATIONS
§ 153.30 ATTENDANT REQUIREMENT.
   Each trailer coach park, while operated, shall be in the charge of a
responsible attendant or caretaker at all times, who shall be responsible, with
the licensee, for compliance with the provisions of this chapter relating to
the conduct of such parks.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.060) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.31 SPACES.
   (A)   Each trailer coach shall be allotted a site of not less than 2,500
square feet.
   (B)   No trailer coach shall be parked closer than five feet to the side lot
lines of a trailer coach park, if the abutting property is improved property,
or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley or building.
   (C)   Each individual trailer site shall abut or face on a driveway or clear
unoccupied space of not less than 20 feet in width, which space shall have
unobstructed access to a public highway or alley.
   (D)   There shall be an open space of at least ten feet between the sides of
every trailer coach and at least five feet between the ends of every trailer
coach.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.070) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.32 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes from the
city water supply system shall be supplied to meet the requirement of such
trailer coach park. The water shall be obtained from faucets only, conveniently
located in the park. No common drinking cups shall be permitted. A water meter
shall be installed in each such park.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.080) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.33 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Each trailer coach park shall provide toilets, baths or showers which shall
comply with the provisions of the chapter relating thereto, with separate
accommodations for men and women, unless each trailer coach in the trailer
coach park is equipped with a toilet and bath or shower.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.090) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.34 GARBAGE REMOVAL.
   It is the duty of the owner, his or her agent or caretaker to provide for
the collection and removal of garbage or other waste material and to otherwise
maintain the park in a clean and sanitary condition.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.100) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.35 LIGHTING.
   The parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at all times so that
the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.110) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.36 STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every trailer coach park must be
maintained in a passable and reasonably dustproof condition at all times.
   (B)   All streets and driveways in trailer coach parks established after
January 1, 1954 shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
   (C)   All streets and driveways in trailer coach parks constructed after
July 1, 1967 shall have a minimum width of 24 feet.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.120) (Ord. 515, passed - -59; Ord. 618, passed - -68)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.37 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   In compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty of
the licensee and person in charge of a trailer coach camp to comply fully with
the provisions of ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 9 and 13.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.130) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.38 HABITATION OF TRAILER COACH UNLAWFUL OUTSIDE OF LICENSED CAMP.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain any trailer coach used for
human habitation upon any plot of ground in the city except in a licensed
trailer camp.
   (B)   It is unlawful to occupy for sleeping or other residence purposes any
trailer coach which has been rendered immobile by the removal of wheels,
placing the same on a foundation or on the ground.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.140) (Ord. 515, passed - -59)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.39 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The lawful use of a trailer coach for human habitation at the time of the
adoption of this chapter may continue although not in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter subject to the following objections:
   (A)   Whenever a trailer coach now situated upon a plot of ground is removed
and not replaced within 30 days of such removal by a trailer coach of at least
450 square feet floor space and in better condition than the one removed
therefrom, the nonconforming use shall cease and thereafter §
153.38 shall apply to the plot of ground.
   (B)   Whenever a trailer coach now situated upon a plot of ground is not
used for human habitation for a continuous period of two months, its
nonconforming use shall cease and thereafter §
153.38 shall apply to the plot of ground.
   (C)   In no case shall a trailer coach replace another as set forth in
division (A) of this section if there is a house situated on the property from
which the trailer coach was removed.
   (D)   It is unlawful to add an auxiliary or additional room or rooms to a
trailer which is now a nonconforming use; however, temporary porches, canvas-
roofed canopies and skirts shall be permitted for such trailers.
(‘82 Code, § 12.40.150) (Ord. 515, passed - -59; Ord. 533, passed - -61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Definitions
   
154.002   Minimum requirements
   
154.003   Variations
   
154.004   Extent of jurisdiction
   
154.005   Effect of provisions
   
154.006   Modifications and exceptions
General Procedure
   
154.020   General procedure
   
154.021   Sketch plan
   
154.022   Preliminary plat
   
154.023   Improvements
   
154.024   Final plat
   
154.025   Fee payment schedule
Preliminary Plat
   
154.035   General requirement
   
154.036   Vicinity sketch
   
154.037   Horizontal scale of plat
   
154.038   Required features and information
   
154.039   Construction drawings
Final Plat
   
154.050   Submitted; required features and information
Design Principals and Layout Requirements
   
154.060   General principals
   
154.061   General layout
   
154.062   Street and block layout
   
154.063   Minimum widths of rights-of-way of streets, alleys and easement for
utilities
   
154.064   Minimum pavement widths
   
154.065   Street grades, curves and sight distances
   
154.066   Intersections
   
154.067   Lots
Improvements
   
154.080   Generally
   
154.081   Supervisory authority
   
154.082   Surety bond
   
154.083   Streets, sidewalks and alleys
   
154.084   Water supply and sewerage
   
154.085   Utilities and monuments
   
154.086   “As-built” construction drawings
   
154.087   Minimum improvements installation required for plat approval
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE. A passage or way affording generally a secondary
means of vehicular access to abutting properties.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street serving as a connection between a major and local
street and serving secondary traffic generators.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The adopted plan for orderly growth of the city.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor residential street with a turn-around.
   LOCAL STREET. A street intended to serve and provide access to neighborhoods
or subneighborhoods.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or building
development, whether immediate or future. A lot shall have frontage on a public
street.
   MAJOR STREET. A street which connects principal traffic generations or
connects such areas with other systems.
   PLATS OFFICER. The employee designated by the City Council to administer
this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more parts, any of which is
less than five acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer
of ownership or building development, including all public streets, alleys,
ways for public service facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other
public grounds, and all the tracts, parcels, lots or blocks, and numbering all
such lots, blocks or parcels by progressive numbers, giving their precise
dimensions; provided, however, that the following shall not be considered a
subdivision and shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not
involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land existing on July
17, 1959, into no more than two parts and not involving any new streets or
easements of access.
(‘82 Code, § 16.04.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72; Am. Ord. 1510, passed 8-4-14)
§ 154.002 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter such provisions
shall in every instance be held to be the minimum reasonable requirements
adopted for the promotion of public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare
of the people of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 16.04.020) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.003 VARIATIONS.
   The Plan Commission may approve variations from the requirements of this
chapter in specific cases which do not affect the general plan or the spirit of
this chapter. All such variations shall be communicated to the City Council in
writing with the reasons therefor before the final approval of the plat by that
body.
(‘82 Code, § 16.04.030) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.004 EXTENT OF JURISDICTION.
   The suggested rules and standards governing plats and subdivisions of land
contained in this chapter shall apply to all land within this city. In the
event of overlapping jurisdiction, the extent of jurisdiction in this chapter
shall be as determined and agreed upon between the county and the city.
(‘82 Code, § 16.04.040) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.005 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Within the territorial limits of this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation shall change, resubdivide or rearrange the boundary or division
line of any lot or parcel of land or divide the same by any means into lots for
any purpose. Nor shall any such person, firm or corporation begin with any
construction work in a proposed subdivision, including grading, without
complying with the provisions of this chapter and before obtaining the
tentative approval of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision as
provided in this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 16.04.050)
   (B)   Unless approved as a final plat as provided in this chapter, no
subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the County Auditor's or
Recorder's office or have any validity; the Building Official shall not issue
building or repair permits for any structure on a lot in any subdivision built
in violation of this chapter. The City Council shall not accept any public
improvements or services in such subdivision.
(‘82 Code, § 16.04.060)
(Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.006 MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The general principles of design and minimum requirements for the
laying out of subdivisions, set forth in §§
154.060 et seq., may be varied by the City Council in the case of a subdivision
large enough to constitute a more or less self-contained neighborhood which is
to be developed in accordance with a comprehensive plan safeguarded by
appropriate restrictions and which, in the judgment of the Council, makes
adequate provision for all essential community requirements. However, no
modification shall be granted by the Council which would conflict with the
proposals of the transportation plan or with other features of the adopted
transportation plan, the community facilities plan or with other features of
the adopted community plan or with the intent and purposes of the general
principles of design and minimum requirements.
   (B)   In any particular case where the subdivider can show that, by reason
of exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, strict compliance with
any requirements of this chapter could cause practical difficulty or
exceptional and undue hardship, the City Council may relax such requirement to
the extent deemed just and proper so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship;
provided such relief may be granted without detriment to the public good and
without impairing the intent and purposes of the regulations or the desirable
general development of the community. Any modification thus granted shall be
entered in the minutes of the City Council setting forth the reasons which, in
the opinion of the Council, justified the modification.
   (C)   In the case of a subdivision of less than five lots and if all lots
can be adequately served by existing streets situated in a locality where
conditions are well-defined, the City Council may exempt the subdivider and the
subdivision of less than five lots from complying with any and all requirements
under this
Chapter 154 by granting a modification or waiver of any or all requirements as
the City Council shall determine in its sole discretion based upon the
circumstances or conditions that the City Council deem justify such
modification or waiver.
(‘82 Code, § 16.20.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72; Am. Ord. 1678, passed 4-26-21)
GENERAL PROCEDURE
§ 154.020 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   In planning and developing a subdivision, the general principals and
requirements set forth in §§
154.060 et seq. shall be observed. In every case, the procedure set forth in §§
154.021 through
154.025 shall be pursued.
(‘82 Code, § 16.08.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.021 SKETCH PLAN.
   The subdivider or his or her engineer shall first submit the proposed plat
in sketch form to the plats officer at the office of the City Clerk to
ascertain the location of proposed streets, parks or other planned
improvements.
(‘82 Code, § 16.08.020) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.022 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider, after submitting the plat in sketch form to the plats
officer, shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision and
construction plans for improvements adequate to determine that sewer, water and
street construction can be installed conforming with the requirements set forth
in Appendix B of this report, as attached to ordinance number 649 of 1972. The
subdivider shall supply black or blue line prints to all public utilities. The
subdivider shall file with the plats officer an application in writing seeking
the approval of the plat, accompanied by four black line or blue line prints.
   (B)   The plats officer will check the preliminary plat as to its conformity
with the adopted community development plan, ordinances of the community and
principles, standards and requirements set forth in the regulations. The plats
officer will check the construction plans of proposed improvements.
   (C)   The City Council, upon receipt of the recommendations and advice from
the plats officer concerning matters above, will approve, approve with
modifications or disapprove the preliminary plat within 30 days of receipt of
the plat. If the preliminary plat is disapproved by the City Council, the
subdivider shall be furnished with a letter and copy of the plat stating the
reason for disapproval and where the plat does not conform to ordinances
including the community development plan. Such notification shall take place
within the 30 day period. Upon approval of the preliminary plat, one copy of
the approved or conditionally approved plat shall be returned to the subdivider
within ten days following City Council action, one copy of the approved plat
transmitted to the County Superintendent of Highways and the final copy
retained in the Council's files.
(‘82 Code, § 16.08.030) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.023 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider, after approval of the preliminary plat, may:
   (A)   Secure from the plats officer the necessary permits to proceed with
the street and sanitary improvements after approval of final construction
drawings; or in lieu of this,
   (B)   Shall, to insure the satisfactory installation of the improvements in
accordance with these regulations, post with the City Clerk a surety bond, in a
form prescribed by the City Council, sufficient to cover the full cost of the
improvements based upon estimate approved by the City Engineer.
(‘82 Code, § 16.08.040) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.024 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider, upon completion of all improvements required by this
chapter, or upon posting of a bond, shall file with the plats officer the final
or record plat for final approval. The plat must conform in every respect with
the requirements specified in §
154.050. The subdivider shall submit the final plat not later than one year
after approval of the preliminary plat. A final or record plat may be a portion
of a larger subdivision for which a preliminary plat had been previously
approved. However, improvements shall be made for all parts of the subdivision
to be submitted for final approval.
   (B)   The subdivider shall file with the plats officer five black line or
blue line prints, the original tracing and a formal request for approval, along
with two copies of all covenants or restrictions pertaining to the final plat.
   (C)   The plats officer will check the final plat, plans and specifications
for improvements. If found satisfactory, the original tracing shall be
forwarded to the City Council, with a certificate showing that:
      (1)   The technical details of the plat itself have been checked and
found satisfactory;
      (2)   All required improvements have been satisfactorily completed or, in
lieu thereof, a surety bond has been posted, assuring their installation.
   (D)   After receiving notification from the plats officer that improvements
are in order and after being satisfied that the final plat is in conformity
with the approved preliminary plat and this chapter, the City Council shall
approve and certify the final plat. The City Council shall have 60 days from
the date of submission in which to take action on the final plat.
   (E)   After approval of the plat by the Council, four approved prints and
original tracing of the final plat shall be returned to the plats officer. The
plats officer shall transmit copies of the approved plat to the County
Superintendent of Highways and such other agencies as deemed necessary and
retain one for the Council's files. The original tracing shall be transmitted
to the subdivider for recording.
   (F)   The subdivider shall post a maintenance bond covering any improvement
to be accepted for maintenance by the city. Such bond shall be held by the
Clerk and shall become effective upon acceptance of the final plat by the City
Council, unless otherwise stipulated. Maintenance bonds shall run for two years
on street paving and two years on sewer and water improvements.
(‘82 Code, § 16.08.050) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.025 FEE PAYMENT SCHEDULE.
   (A)   At the time of filing of a plat or replat for approval, the subdivider
shall pay to the City Clerk a fee according to the license fee schedule on file
and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   All fees shall be deposited in the General Fund. No fees shall be
charged for processing preliminary plats.
(‘82 Code, § 16.08.060) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 154.035 GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
   The preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, four black line or blue
line prints prepared by a registered land surveyor, shall accompany an
application in writing to the plats officer for preliminary approval of the
subdivision in order that permits may be secured for the installation of
improvements and processing for final approval of the plat may proceed
thereafter. All public utilities shall be supplied with copies of the
preliminary plat.
(‘82 Code, § 16.12.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.036 VICINITY SKETCH.
   A vicinity sketch at a scale of 400 feet or less to the inch shall accompany
the preliminary plat. Such vicinity sketch shall show all adjacent existing
subdivisions and their names, the tract lines of acreage parcels of land
together with the names of record owners of such parcels and all street and
alley lines immediately adjoining the proposed subdivision and between it and
the nearest existing highways or thoroughfares.
(‘82 Code, § 16.12.020) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.037 HORIZONTAL SCALE OF PLAT.
   The horizontal scale of the preliminary plat shall be 100 feet or less to
the inch.
(‘82 Code, § 16.12.030) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.038 REQUIRED FEATURES AND INFORMATION.
   The preliminary plat should clearly show and include the following features
and information:
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or
closely approximate the name of any other subdivision in the county;
   (B)   An accurate description of the property involved according to the real
estate records of the county;
   (C)   The names and addresses of the owners of record, the subdivider and
the registered surveyor who prepared the plat;
   (D)   The names of adjoining subdivisions and the names of record owners of
adjoining parcels of unplatted land;
   (E)   The boundary lines, accurate in scale, of the tract to be subdivided;
   (F)   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted streets or
other public ways and easements within or immediately adjacent to the tract,
corporation lines, section and quarter-section lines and other important
features such as existing permanent buildings, watercourses, railroad lines and
the like.
   (G)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto, with pipe sizes
and grades indicated;
   (H)   Contours, with intervals of two feet referenced to United States
Geological North American Datum-Mean Sea Level Elevation Datum;
   (I)   The layout, proposed names and widths of proposed streets, alleys and
easements; the location and approximate sizes of proposed catch basins,
culverts and other drainage structures; the layout, numbers and approximate
dimensions of proposed lots;
   (J)   Proposed front yard setback or other setback lines;
   (K)   The width and approximate dimensions of all parcels of land intended
to be dedicated or reserved for public use, or to be reserved in the deeds for
the common use of property owners in the subdivision, with the purpose,
conditions or limitations of such dedication or reservation indicated;
   (L)   North point, scale and date;
   (M)   Copies of any proposed restrictions;
   (N)   Notation stating "Preliminary Plat-Not for Record."
(‘82 Code, § 16.12.040) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.039 CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS.
   The subdivider's engineer shall prepare preliminary plans for all proposed
improvements in such form as to enable the plats officer to determine that
sewers, water and streets may be constructed according to §§
154.080 et seq.
(‘82 Code, § 16.12.050) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
FINAL PLAT
§ 154.050 SUBMITTED; REQUIRED FEATURES AND INFORMATION.
   After improvements have been installed or a surety bond filed in accordance
with §§
154.080 et seq., four black line or blue line prints and the original tracing
shall be submitted to the plats officer with a formal request for approval. The
final plat shall be drawn at the scale of 100 feet or less to the inch and
shall clearly show the following features and information:
   (A)   Legal description of the property, including reference to the section,
township and range; section lines and corners; quarter-section lines;
   (B)   All plat boundary lines with lengths of course to hundredths of a foot
and bearings or angles based on an accurate survey in the field;
   (C)   The exact locations and the widths along the property lines of all
existing or recorded streets or roads intersecting or paralleling the
boundaries of the tract;
   (D)   Bearings and distances to nearest established street or road bounds,
other established survey lines or other official monuments, which monuments
shall be located or accurately described on the plat. Any established survey or
corporation lines shall be accurately monument-marked and located on the plat,
and their names shall be lettered on them;
   (E)   The accurate location and material of all permanent reference
monuments. Such monuments shall be concrete cylinders or rectangular prisms,
not less than four inches in diameter or square, and 24 inches long, located at
extreme corners of the subdivision. Other markers shall be steel rods not less
than three-quarter inch in diameter and 24 inches long, located at all street
corners, at all points where street lines intersect the plat boundary lines and
at angle points and points of curve in each street; and shall be one-half inch
square iron pins, 24 inches in length, at all lot corners. Any pins disturbed
by construction or grading shall be reset;
   (F)   The exact layout including:
      (1)   Street and alley lines; their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and widths (including widths along the line of any obliquely-
intersecting street);
      (2)   The lengths of all arcs, radii, points of curvature and tangent
bearings;
      (3)   All easements or right-of-ways, when provided for or owned by
public services (with the limitation of easement rights definitely stated on
the plat);
      (4)   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, and bearings
or angles if other than right-angles to the street and alley lines;
   (G)   Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks also numbered in numerical
order;
   (H)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for dedication
for public use, and of all property that may be reserved by covenant in the
deeds for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with the
purpose indicated thereon;
   (I)   Front yard setback lines need not be shown. Lines of future streets or
roads as shown on the adopted community development plan;
   (J)   Private restrictions, if any:
      (1)   Boundaries of each type of use restriction;
      (2)   Other private restrictions for each restricted section of the
subdivision;
   (K)   Name of the subdivision and name or number of the largest subdivision
or tract of which the tract being subdivided forms a part;
   (L)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions;
   (M)   Names and addresses of the owner or owners of record, the subdivider
and of the registered land surveyor who prepared the plat;
   (N)   North point, scale and date;
   (O)   Certification by the registered land surveyor who prepared the plat to
the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him or her, that all
monuments indicated thereon actually exist and that their location, size and
material are correctly shown;
   (P)   Other certificates, required by law, including certificate of title
showing ownership of the tract of land included in the subdivision, also
certificates showing that all taxes have been paid.
(‘82 Code, § 16.16.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
DESIGN PRINCIPALS AND LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.060 GENERAL PRINCIPALS.
   In laying out a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with the general
principles and requirements set forth in this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.061 GENERAL LAYOUT.
   (A)   The layout must conform to the transportation plan, other parts of the
adopted community development plan and other adopted regulations of the city:
      (1)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a collector
street or higher type thoroughfare, so designated on the community development
plan, such a part of such public way must be platted by the subdivider in the
location and at the width indicated on the plan.
      (2)   Where a proposed park, playground or other recreational area,
proposed school site or public ground, shown on the adopted community
development plan, is located in whole or in part within the proposed
subdivision, such proposed public ground or part, if not dedicated to the Board
of Education or other public agency, must be reserved and no action taken on
the subdivision for a period of not less than 90 days to allow the City Council
or other public agency the opportunity to consider and take action toward
acquisition of such public ground or park by purchase or other mean's. If the
responsible agency does not take action to acquire such land, the subdivider
may then use the land for any purpose permitted.
   (B)   Where considered desirable by the subdivider and held appropriate by
the City Council, open spaces suitably located and of adequate size for parks,
playgrounds or other recreational purposes for local or neighborhood use may be
provided for in the design of the proposed subdivision, and if not dedicated to
the public and accepted by the appropriate public body, may be reserved for the
common use of all property owners in the proposed subdivision by covenant in
the deeds.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.020) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.062 STREET AND BLOCK LAYOUT.
   (A)   The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformity
with a plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining and nearby
areas:
      (1)   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be
continuous and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with
which they are to connect.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the City Council, such extension is
not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with existing layouts or the most advantageous future development
of adjacent tracts. Cul-de-sacs of reasonable length will be approved where
topography necessitates or where they are appropriate for the type of
development contemplated.
      (3)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right
angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
      (4)   Wherever there exists adjoining the tract to be subdivided a
dedicated or platted and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-
width of such street or alley shall be platted.
      (5)   Alleys shall ordinarily be platted:
         (a)   In the rear of all lots to be used for business; and
         (b)   In the rear of residential lots fronting on primary
thoroughfares (unless service roads are provided in front thereof) as a means
of safe access to such lots.
   (B)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots at
least 100 feet in depth unless, in the opinion of the Council, prevented by
exceptional topography or other physical conditions:
      (1)   The lengths of blocks shall be such as are appropriate, in the
opinion of the City Council, for the locality and the type of development
contemplated, but shall not exceed 1,200 feet.
      (2)   In any block over 700 feet in length, the Council may require that
a crosswalk or pedestrian way, not less than ten feet wide, be provided near
the center and entirely across such block.
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 500 feet in length measured along the
centerline from the intersection of origin through the end of the circle to the
end of the right-of-way.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.030) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.063 MINIMUM WIDTHS OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND EASEMENT FOR
UTILITIES.
   The minimum widths of rights-of-way are as set forth below:
   (A)   Major street; as designated on the transportation plan, but not less
than 80 feet wide in any case;
   (B)   Collector street; as designated on the transportation plan, but not
less than 60 feet wide in any case;
   (C)   Local street; 60 feet wide;
   (D)   Minor street and cul-de-sac; 60 feet. Minor service streets provided
with curb and gutter may be permitted at 50 feet. All dead-end streets shall
terminate in a circular turn-around having a minimum right-of-way diameter of
100 feet;
   (E)   Alleys and service drive; 20 feet wide;
   (F)   Easements for utilities, where required, should be at least ten feet
wide centered on rear or side lot lines.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.040) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.064 MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   The portion of the pavement required to be installed at the subdivider's
expense shall be as follows:
   (A)   Major and collector streets designated on the transportation plan, and
local and minor streets, 25 feet wide, back to back of curb. Overall pavement
widths shall be as designated by the transportation plan, and the differences,
if any, between the cost of the portion to be provided at the expense of the
subdivider and that of the total width designated by the transportation plan
shall be borne by the city, unless it shall be determined by the City Council
that such greater width will benefit the subdivider in proportion to its cost.
However, the cost of curb and gutter should be borne by the subdivider in any
case. The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a cul-de-sac shall have a
minimum outside diameter of 80 feet. A "T" or "Y" shaped paved space, when
approved by the Council, may be used as a temporary measure at the end of a
dead-end street until such time as the street is continued.
   (B)   Alleys and service drives shall be paved to a width of 16 feet.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.050) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.065 STREET GRADES, CURVES AND SIGHT DISTANCES.
   (A)   The grades of streets shall not be less than .5% nor exceed the
following:
      (1)   Major streets, designated as such on the transportation plan: 5%
unless prevented by topography;
      (2)   Collector, minor and local streets, service drives and alleys: 10%;
      (3)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks: 20% unless steps of an acceptable
design are to be constructed.
   (B)   All changes in street grades above 1% shall be connected by vertical
curves of a minimum length equal to 30 times the algebraic difference in the
rate of grade for division (A) of this section and one-half of the minimum for
all other streets.
   (C)   The radii of curvature on the centerline shall not be less than the
following:
      (1)   Major and collector streets; 350 feet;
      (2)   Local streets, minor streets, service drives and alleys; 150 feet.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.060) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.066 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Curb returns at street intersections shall be rounded by radii of at
least 25 feet.
   (B)   Streets shall intersect as close to a 90 degree angle as possible.
Minimum radii of curb returns shall be increased where the angle of
intersection is less than 90 degrees.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.070) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.067 LOTS.
   (A)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated.
   (B)   Excessive depth in relation to width ordinarily shall be avoided.
   (C)   Every lot shall abut on a public right-of-way dedicated for street
purposes.
   (D)   Lots for residence purposes shall be at least 37.5 feet wide at the
front lot line and shall be adequate for a building of practicable width.
   (E)   Lots larger than the minimum called for by health and land use
regulations may be required where topographic or other considerations may limit
the buildable or usable portion of such lots.
   (F)   Corner lots for residential use ordinarily should be platted wider
than interior lots in order to permit conformance with the required setbacks.
   (G)   Residential lots fronting on highways, thoroughfares and parkways
should have extra depth to permit deep setbacks for the buildings.
   (H)   Double-frontage lots and reversed-frontage lots ordinarily should be
avoided.
   (I)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the right-of-
way line of the street on which the lot fronts.
   (J)   Side lot lines on curved streets shall be radial to the right-of-way
line of the street on which the lot fronts.
   (K)   Lots not served by public sewer systems and/or public water systems
shall meet all requirements established to protect public health:
      (1)   Lots lacking both services shall ordinarily be at least 40,000
square feet in size and at least 200 feet wide at the building line.
      (2)   Lots having either public water or sewer shall be at least 20,000
square feet in size and at least 120 feet wide at the building line.
      (3)   Percolation tests and related public health measures shall be used
in all cases and the above stated minimum requirements may be modified upon
report of appropriate state or county agencies.
      (4)   Lot sizes as stated in this chapter are subject to requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located.
(‘82 Code, § 16.24.080) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.080 GENERALLY.
   Improvements shall be installed in accordance with the minimum requirements
and regulations set forth in this chapter prior to the filing of the final plat
for final approval.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.010) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.081 SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY.
   All of the improvements required under this chapter shall be constructed
under contract approved by the city's engineer in respect to construction
details and proper inspection of the improvements to be installed and shall be
completed in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the city's engineer or his or her duly designated representative prior to the
filing with the Council of the final or record plat and request for final
approval.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.020) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.082 SURETY BOND.
   In lieu of completing all the improvements as required in §
154.081, the subdivider shall furnish the Council with a surety bond,
sufficient to cover the cost of any or all of the improvements required to be
installed by the subdivider, based on estimates approved by the City Engineer.
The intent is to secure the actual construction and installation of such
improvements within one year after the approval of the final plat, subject to
extension by the Council.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.030) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.083 STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Construction plans for improvements to be installed shall be prepared
by a registered professional engineer whose seal shall appear thereon. Two
prints shall be furnished. Improvements shall be in accordance with
specifications adopted by the Council. Construction details shall be revised as
may be necessary and receive approval of the City Engineer and other agencies
having jurisdiction before improvements are installed. Details shall include:
      (1)   Plan and profile of each street, referenced to United States
Geological Survey datum, at a horizontal scale of 20 feet or less to the inch,
with tentative grades indicated, including plans and profiles of proposed
sanitary sewers, also storm water sewers if required, with grades and sizes
indicated;
      (2)   Typical cross-section of each proposed street at a horizontal and
vertical scale of five feet or less to the inch, showing the width of pavement,
the location and width of any sidewalks and the location of utility mains;
      (3)   Complete grading plan;
      (4)   Plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe sizes
and location of valves and fire hydrants.
   (B)   Streets shall be graded to full right-of-way width. The surfacing
shall be seven inches of portland cement concrete or equivalent. Such surfacing
shall not be less than 25 feet wide, back to back of curb, and with concrete
curb and gutter, or as otherwise required under §
154.084, all in accordance with the specifications and meeting the approval of
the city.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete four inches
in thickness and not less than four feet in width.
   (D)   Alleys and service drives shall be graded to the full width of the
right-of-way and shall be provided with an all-weather surface satisfactory to
the City Engineer. Such paved width shall be four feet less than the dedicated
right-of-way unless otherwise specified.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.040) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.084 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE.
   (A)   Every subdivision shall be provided with a complete water distribution
system adequate to serve the area being platted, including a service connection
to within one foot of a lot line of each lot and appropriately spaced fire
hydrants, the entire water system designed to meet the approval of the City
Engineer and appropriate state agencies.
   (B)   Every subdivision shall be provided with a storm water sewer or
drainage system adequate to serve the area being platted for a five year design
storm and otherwise meeting the approval of the City Engineer.
   (C)   In every subdivision, provision shall be made for the satisfactory
disposal of sanitary sewage:
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer main is, in the opinion of the City
Council, reasonably accessible, the subdivision shall be provided with a
complete sanitary sewer system connected with such sewer main, including a
service connection to within one foot of a lot line of each lot. Such system
shall be approved by the City Engineer and the state.
      (2)   Where, in the opinion of the Council, a public sanitary sewer main
is not reasonably accessible, proper provisions shall be made for the disposal
of sanitary waste subject to approval of the City Engineer and the County
Health Department. Absorption capacity of the soil, surface drainage and
topography shall be criteria for determining whether or not the installation of
individual septic tank disposal systems are feasible. Feasibility shall be
ascertained by the subdivider before individual systems are proposed. At least
two percolation tests shall be made on each lot at the approximate location of
the septic system absorption field. Such tests shall be performed in accord
with the requirements of the Council, the County Health Department and the
state. The results of these tests shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer and made known to the County Health Department, the
Council and the state.
      (3)   Wherever excavations for storm sewer, sanitary sewer and/or water
mains and appurtenances thereto may lie beneath existing or proposed pavement,
sidewalks or drive areas, such excavation shall be backfilled by a method and
with trench fill of a type approved by the City Engineer.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.050) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.085 UTILITIES AND MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Poles or underground conduits for electric lights, telephone lines or
other utilities shall be placed in easements provided along rear or side lot
lines, wherever this is practicable.
   (B)   Monuments shall be placed in accordance with the requirements of §
154.050(E).
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.060) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.086 AS-BUILT CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS.
   Where the construction as performed varies from the plans filed and approved
as hereinbefore required, "as-built" construction drawings shall be filed with
the City Council. If such construction does not vary from such plans, an
affidavit executed by a registered professional engineer so certifying shall be
filed prior to acceptance of a final plat or acceptance of improvements for
maintenance.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.070) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
§ 154.087 MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION REQUIRED FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   Minimum improvements shall be installed, unless a surety bond is filed,
prior to request for final approval of the plat in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 16.28.080) (Ord. 649, passed - -72)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Definitions
Board of Appeals
   
155.015   Created; membership; appointment procedure
   
155.016   Powers and duties
   
155.017   Meetings
   
155.018   Variance or rezoning granting procedure
   
155.019   Rezoning or variations; authority, applications, hearing
   
155.020   Special use; authority, applications, hearing
   
155.021   Duration of special use
   
155.022   Appeal; manner, hearing, fee decision
Districts Generally
   
155.035   Districts established
   
155.036   Zoning map
   
155.037   Street vacations
   
155.038   Compliance requirements
Single-Family Dwelling District
   
155.050   Permitted uses
   
155.051   Height regulations
   
155.052   Area regulations
   
155.053   Front yard
   
155.054   Rear yard
   
155.055   Side yard
   
155.056   Lot coverage
   
155.057   Lot area
   
155.058   Accessory buildings
   
155.059   Outdoor storage and parking of recreational vehicles, trailers and
boats
One-Half Acre Single-Family Dwelling District
   
155.070   Permitted use
   
155.071   Height regulations
   
155.072   Front yard
   
155.073   Rear yard
   
155.074   Side yard
   
155.075   Intensity of use
   
155.076   Accessory buildings
Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
155.085   Permitted uses
   
155.086   Height regulations
   
155.087   Area regulations
   
155.088   Front yard
   
155.089   Rear yard
   
155.090   Side yard
   
155.091   Lot coverage
   
155.092   Lot area
   
155.093   Accessory buildings
Business District
   
155.105   Permitted uses
   
155.106   Height regulations
   
155.107   Area regulations
Outlying Business District
   
155.110   Area included
   
155.111   Permitted uses
   
155.112   Height regulations
   
155.113   Area regulations
Industry District
   
155.120   Permitted uses
Conditions and Requirements
   
155.130   Fences
   
155.131   Height regulations
   
155.132   Reserved
   
155.133   Reserved
   
155.134   Property annexation
   
155.135   Mobile homes
   
155.136   Number of buildings on a zoning lot
   
155.137   Division of zoning lots
   
155.138   Swimming pools
   
155.139   Downtown business district regulations
   
155.140   Portable storage containers
   
155.141   Adult-use cannabis
   
155.142   Carports
Parking Requirements
   
155.145   Off-street parking required
   
155.146   Size and location
   
155.147   Dual use prohibited
   
155.148   Surfacing
   
155.149   Design
   
155.150   Parking requirements for individual uses
   
155.151   Loading spaces
   
155.152   Parking plan required
Nonconforming Uses
   
155.165   Continuance
   
155.166   Nonconforming land use
   
155.167   Discontinued or abandoned use
   
155.168   Damaged or destroyed building
   
155.169   Movement or use of building
   
155.170   Structural alterations
   
155.171   Change to more restricted classification
   
155.172   Nonconforming signs or billboards
   
155.173   Applicability of provisions
   
155.174   Agricultural uses
Wireless Communication Facilities
   
155.185   Definitions
   
155.186   Application for wireless communication facilities
   
155.187   Restrictions as to construction type and spacing of new support
structures
   
155.188   Requirement for use of public facilities and sites for location of
wireless communications facilities
   
155.189   Zoning permits required
   
155.190   Specific standards of construction
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.200   Building permit required
   
155.201   Permit application
   
155.202   Permit display requirement
   
155.203   Permit inspection
   
155.204   Fees
   
155.205   Nonconforming uses
   
155.206   Enforcing Officer; office, salary, powers and duties
   
155.207   Appeal procedure
   
155.208   Violation of chapter; penalty
   
155.209   Remedy of violation
   
Appendix:   Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as set
out in this chapter. Words used in the present tense shall include the future;
the singular number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the
word "building" shall include the word “structure” and the word “shall” is
mandatory and not directory.
   ABUTTING. Connected by a common boundary line except where two or more lots
adjoin only at a corner or corners, where the common boundary line measurers
not less than eight feet in a single direction.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or the
use of the premises. An accessory use is one, which is incidental to the main
use of the premises. It includes, but is not limited to the following: A
child's playhouse, garden house, swimming pool, private greenhouse, garage,
shed or building for domestic storage. An accessory building shall not be
erected prior to the establishment of the principal use or construction of the
main building. No accessory building shall be used for a dwelling, or for the
sole conduction of a home occupation. Accessory buildings used as private
garages shall house not more than three vehicles. No accessory building shall
exceed 20 feet in height. No accessory building constructed in a Single-Family
Dwelling District, one-half acre Single-Family Dwelling District or Multiple-
Family Dwelling District after August 1, 2003, shall exceed 960 square feet in
total size measured from the outside of the exterior walls. All accessory
buildings shall be constructed of materials that are the same or similar to the
main building with the exception of masonry-type exteriors.
   ADJACENT. Near; close. For an industrial structure, if separate from all
other structures by less than 300 feet; for business structures, if separated
by less than 250 feet; for home occupations, if separated by less than 150
feet. Provided, streets, highways and all other public right-of-way shall be
considered a part of the separations and that all measurements take place from
lot line to lot line nearest the adjacent structures.
   ADJOINING. The same as ABUTTING for purposes of this chapter.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to property abutting thereon, exceeding not more than 16 feet wide.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple or two-family dwelling, or
where more than one living unit is established above nonresidential uses,
intended or designed for use as a residence by a single-family.
   BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one-half of its height below
grade. A basement shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. When a
structure is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the
ground up, each part is deemed a separate building. A building will include
porches, breeze-ways, carports and all other covered structures.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the mean height level between eaves and ridge, for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below grade. A
cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurement.
   CHILD CARE CENTER, PRE-SCHOOL, DAY NURSERY, NURSERY SCHOOL (OR CENTER). A
dwelling and premises in and on which not more than four unrelated individuals,
not residing in the dwelling, are cared for during some portion of a 24 hour
period. There shall be a minimum of 100 square feet of outdoor play area for
each child to be cared for, and that the play area is fenced and screened with
plantings from any adjourning lot in any Single-Family Dwelling District. An
off-street loading and unloading area shall also be provided.
   COMMERCIAL STORAGE UNITS and MINI-WAREHOUSES. A building or group of
buildings containing individual units, compartments, stalls or lockers,
designed in use for dead storage of personal property, each unit, compartment,
stall or locker having separate secured access.
   CONTIGUOUS. This term shall mean the same as ABUTTING for purposes of this
chapter.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size
of yards and intensity of use are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, but not a trailer, which is
designed and used exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING DISTRICT. Every district specified in this chapter, except the
Business District, and the Industry District is designated as a dwelling
district.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons, related by blood, marriage,
common-law or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FILLING STATION. Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises are classified as a public garage.
   FRONTAGE. All property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of a street, or if
the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or part of a main building intended
primarily for the storage of motor vehicles owned or used by occupants of the
main building.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A structure, or portion thereof, other than a private or
community garage used for the storage, sale, hire or repair of self-propelled
vehicles or trailers.
   HOME OCCUPATION. In the single-family, multi-family and ½ acre single-family
districts, an occupation carried on within a dwelling by members of the family
occupying the dwelling which shall be the family members primary residence,
with no servant, employee or other person being engaged, provided that such
occupations meet all of the following requirements, unless usurped by county,
state or federal requirements:
      (1)   The occupation maintains the residential character of the building;
      (2)   The occupation is conducted in such a manner as not to give an
outward appearance, nor manifest any characteristic of a business, in the
ordinary meaning of the term;
      (3)   The occupation will not infringe upon the rights of adjacent or
adjoining residents to enjoy the peaceful occupancy of their homes;
      (4)   The occupation shall be only a secondary use of the premises;
      (5)   The occupation shall not occupy more than 25% of the floor area of
one floor of the dwelling;
      (6)   There shall be no stock-in-trade stored, sold or displayed upon the
premises;
      (7)   Only one nonilluminated sign, containing the name and/or occupation
only, not over one square foot in area, attached flat against the building
housing the said home occupation shall be permitted;
      (8)   The occupation requires no additional parking space and creates no
additional vehicular traffic;
      (9)   The occupation is limited to electric motors for power with a
combined total limitation of three horsepower;
      (10)   For purposes of this chapter, family day-care homes shall be
considered as home occupation in single-family, multi-family and ½ acre single-
family zones;
      (11)   No automobile repair shops shall be allowed.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding house or lodging house.
   INDUSTRY. Any use in which the major activity is the treatment, processing,
rebuilding, repairing or wholesale storage of material, products or items and
where the finished product is not acquired by the ultimate user on the
premises, as distinguished from a retail use where the treatment, processing,
repairing or storage is secondary to the sale, exchange or repairing of
materials or products on the premises.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the boarding, breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
     LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage of two nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds or a parcel of land, the
deed to which was recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds prior to the
date of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall include manufactured homes constructed
after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the federal "National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 USC 5401 et seq."
   NONCONFORMING USES. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of the original zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto,
which does not conform after the passage of the zoning ordinance or amendment
thereto with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   PARKING SPACE. A durably surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or enclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard
automobile, and if the space is enclosed comprising an area or not less than
140 square feet, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway connecting the
parking space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and
egress of an automobile.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means or access to abutting property.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS. Any container that is not considered a building
or structure under this chapter and used for the storage or collection of
personal property including but not limited to what are commonly referred to as
cargo containers or portable on demand storage containers ("PODS") but shall
not include a container used only for the removal of garbage, refuse, and waste
pursuant to
Chapter 53 of the Code of Ordinances relating to solid waste.
   SIGN.  Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication, produced
wholly or in part by the construction, erection, affixing or placing of a
structure on any land, or on any other structure, or produced by painting on,
posting or placing any printed, lettered, pictured, figured or colored material
on any building, structure or surface.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, that use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, which obstructs the vision in unoccupied space from the
ground upward to the sky, including advertising billboards, tennis and baseball
backstops, fences, patios and decks and satellite dishes. For purposes of this
section, permanently attached or having a permanent location shall mean the
attachment is fixed in concrete or other permanent material or attached in such
a way so as not to be easily moved or removed.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any substantial change in the roof or in the
exterior walls.
   TRAILER. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirting and which is, has been or reasonably can be equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term TRAILER includes travel trailer, mobile
home or any other structure that can be used for the above purposes.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of the front yard or the depth of a rear
yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the main
building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projection thereof other than the projection of
the usual steps.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On
corner lots, the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots
the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the
front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard line.
   ZONING LOT. A single unified tract of land located within a single block
which at the time of filing for a building permit, is designated by its owner
or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under
single or unified ownership or control. Such lot shall have frontage on a
street; shall be of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and areas; shall provide such yards and other
open spaces as herein required; and may consist of a single lot of record; a
portion of a lot of record; a combination of complete lots of record; a parcel
of land described by a metes and bounds description; provided that in no case
of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 889, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 1095, passed
11-3-98; Am. Ord. 1144, passed 11-7-00; Am. Ord. 1152, passed 1-2-01; Am. Ord.
1219, passed 7-15-03; Am. Ord. 1280, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 1314, passed 7-17-
06; Am. Ord. 1646, passed 2-24-20; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 155.015 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A Board of Appeals is authorized to be established.
   (B)   The word “Board” when used in this section shall be construed to mean
the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the Mayor by and
with the consent of the City Council.
   (D)   The members of the first Board shall serve respectively for the
following terms (or until their representative successors are appointed and
qualified): one for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one for
four years, one for five years, one for six years and one for seven years and
five years each for those following the first appointment.
   (E)   One of the members of the Board shall be designated by the Mayor, with
the consent of the City Council, as Chairman/Chairwoman of said Board and shall
hold his/her office as Chairperson until his/her successor is appointed.
   (F)   The Chairperson, or in his/her absence the Acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (G)   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any member of the Board for
cause and after a public hearing.
   (H)   Vacancies upon the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the
member whose place has become vacant, in the manner provided in this chapter
for the appointment of such member.
   (I)   In those cases where it is in the best interest of the general public
and no meeting shall take place because of the lack of a quorum of the Mayoral
appointees, the Chairperson may call on any or all Council members to act as
alternates who shall have all privileges of regular Board members.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 885, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.016 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and review any
order, requirement, decisions or determination made by the Enforcing Officer
charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall also bear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which
it is required to pass under this chapter.
   (C)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Enforcing
Officer or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter or to recommend any variation or rezoning
in this chapter.
   (D)   Every such recommendation by the Board of Appeals after a hearing
shall be accompanied by a finding of fact, specifying the reason for such
recommendations.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 11-3-
98)
§ 155.017 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such times as such Board may determine.
   (B)   All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
   (C)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official
actions.
   (D)   Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a
requested variation, and the reasons for recommending or denying such variation
shall be specified.
   (E)   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof and every
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be filed
immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (F)   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with
this chapter or with the state statutes in such case made and provided and may
select or appoint such officers as it deems necessary.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.018 VARIANCE OR REZONING GRANTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall also hear all applications for rezoning or
variations to the provisions of this chapter and shall submit to the City
Council its recommendations, based on a finding of fact, for enactment in an
amended ordinance, as the City Council sees fit.
   (B)   In making recommendations to the City Council, the Board of Appeals
shall find that a proposed rezoning or variation will not contaminate the air,
nor impair the light supply to adjacent property, increase the congestion in
the public streets, increase the danger of fire, impair or diminish property
values or be contrary to the general health, safety and welfare of the people
of the city.
   (C)   The City Council shall not authorize a rezoning or variation until a
public hearing has been held by the Board of Appeals pursuant to notice and
until the Board's recommendation when such finding of fact has been received by
the City Council.
   (D)   Construction necessitated variations.
      (1)   Authorization. In the event that a variation necessitated by
construction is requested after the commencement of construction on the
property in question, the Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend and the City
Council may vary the regulations of this chapter relating to the construction
of buildings or structures and the bulk requirements of this chapter provided
the Board makes a finding of fact, based upon the standards hereinafter
prescribed that construction has caused practical difficulties or particular
hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of those
regulations relating to the construction of buildings or structures.
      (2)   Application. The application process for a variance under this Code
shall apply.
      (3)   Standards. In the event that a variation necessitated by
construction is requested after the commencement of construction on the
property in question, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend and the
City Council shall not vary the regulations of this chapter unless the Board
shall make findings of fact after a public hearing based upon the evidence as
presented that:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone and strict application of the requirements of this chapter to the
building or structure constructed.
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances such as
the owner's unintentional construction of the building or structure in
contravention of the requirements of this chapter; and
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      (4)   A construction necessitated variation shall be permitted only if
the evidence, in the judgment of the Zoning Board of Appeals and the City
Council sustains each of the three standards enumerated in this section.
      (5)   The standards set forth in this division shall be the only
standards which must be met to permit construction necessitated variations.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Ord. 1281, passed 6-6-05)
§ 155.019 REZONING OR VARIATIONS; AUTHORITY, APPLICATIONS, HEARING.
   (A)   Procedural authority.
      (1)   The City Council may authorize rezoning or variations from the
provisions of this chapter where there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of the provisions
of the chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures or the use of land. However, no such rezoning or variation shall be
made by the City Council except in a specified case and after a public hearing
before the Board of Appeal's recommendation with a finding of fact has been
received by the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council, by ordinance, without further public hearing, may
adopt any proposed rezoning or variation or may refer it back to the Board of
Appeals for further consideration; provided, however, that any proposed
rezoning or variation which fails to receive the approval of the Board of
Appeals shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all
the City Council.
   (B)   Applications.  
      (1)   All applications for rezoning or variation to the provisions of
this chapter and from the strict application of the terms of this chapter shall
be made in writing and submitted directly to the Board of Appeals which shall
have original jurisdiction in such matters.
      (2)   Rulings should not be made allowing the requested rezoning or
variation merely because it would serve as a convenience to the applicant.
      (3)   Before granting a rezoning or variation, the Board of Appeals
should find, among other facts, that the granting of the rezoning or variation
is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship or difficulty and is in
harmony with the intent and general purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   Public hearing. The Board shall make no recommendation except in a
specific case and after a public hearing conducted by the Board. A notice of
the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a paper of
general circulation in the city at least 15 days previous to the hearing. Such
notice shall contain the address or location of the property for which the
rezoning, variation or other ruling by the Board is sought, as well as a brief
description of the nature of the appeal.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.020 SPECIAL USE; AUTHORITY, APPLICATIONS, HEARING.
   (A)   Procedural authority.  
      (1)   The City Council, under this chapter, may authorize special uses to
exist within any zoning district as described herein. Such uses may include,
but are not limited to public and quasi-public uses affected with the public
interest, uses which may have a unique, special or unusual impact upon the use
or enjoyment of neighboring property and planned developments. A use may be a
permitted use and one or more zoning districts and a special use in one or more
other zoning districts. However, no special use shall be granted by the City
Council except in a specific case and after a public hearing before the Board
of Appeals pursuant to a notice and until the Board of Appeals’ recommendation
with finding of fact has been received by the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council, by ordinance without further public hearings, may
adopt any proposed special use or may refer it back to the Board of Appeals for
further consideration. However, any proposed special use which fails to receive
the approval of the Board of Appeals shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds of all the City Council.
   (B)   Applications.  
      (1)   All applications for special use to the provisions of this chapter,
from the strict applications of the terms of this chapter, shall be made in
writing and submitted directly to the Board of Appeals, which shall have
original jurisdiction in such matters.
      (2)   Ruling should not be made allowing the request special use merely
because it would serve as a convenience to the applicant.
      (3)   Before granting a special use, the Board of Appeals should find,
among other facts, that the granting of the special use:
         (a)   1.   Is necessary for the public convenience at the location;
            2.   Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated, that the
public health, safety and welfare will be protected.
         (b)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property
in that neighborhood in which it is to be located.
         (c)   Such special use shall conform to the applicable regulations of
the district in which it is to be located.
   (C)   Public hearing. The Board shall make no recommendation except in a
specific case and after a public hearing is conducted by the Board. A notice of
the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a paper of general
circulation in the city at least 15 days previous to the hearing. Such notice
shall contain the address or location of the property for which the special use
designation by the Board is sought, as well as a brief description of the
nature of the appeal.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.021 DURATION OF SPECIAL USE.
   Once designated, the special use designation will continue for a period
recommended by the Board of Appeals to be decided upon by the City Council.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.022 APPEAL; MANNER, HEARING, FEE, DECISION.
   (A)   Manner of initiating. An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals
by any person, firm or corporation, or by any officer, department, board or
bureau affected by a decision of the Enforcing Officer relative to this
chapter. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by
the Board of Appeals by general rule, by the filing with the Enforcing Officer
and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
thereof. The Enforcing Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all of the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   Stay of proceedings; hearing.
      (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Enforcing Officer certifies to the Board of Appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him/her that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his/her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of
Appeals or by a court of record an application, on notice of the Enforcing
Officer and on due cause shown.
      (2)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without a reasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
   (C)   Fee. A fee shall be charged at the time a notice of appeal is filed in
an amount determined from time to time by majority vote of the City Council and
shall be as set forth in a schedule of fees on file and available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Decision of Board. The Board way reverse or affirm wholly or partly or
may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed
from to the extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting
and proper in the premises.
(Ord 552 , passed - -62; Ord. 744, passed - -80; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Ord.
1546, passed 9-19-16)
DISTRICTS GENERALLY
§ 155.035 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades,
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of the lot
areas; and to regulate and determine the areas of yards, courts and other open
spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the city is divided into
districts, of which there shall be five in number, known as: Single-Family
Dwelling District, Multiple-Family Dwelling District, One-half Acre Single-
Family Dwelling District, Business District and Industry District.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.036 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map which is a part of
this chapter, which map is designated as the "zoning map." The information
shown thereon is a part of this chapter and has the same force and effect as if
the zoning map and all the notations, references and other information shown
thereon were all fully set forth or described in this chapter, the original of
which zoning map is properly attested and is on file with the Clerk of the
city.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.037 STREET VACATIONS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning
district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of such a vacation, and all area included
in the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. 552, passed - -72; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.038 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as provided in this chapter:
   (A)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   (C)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
   (D)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on the lot unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 155.050 PERMITTED USES.
   It is unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in a
single-family dwelling district for any purpose other than the following:
   One-family dwellings
   Gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is involved
   Schools, elementary and high, and colleges (public or private)
   Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teachings
   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers; provided there is a
minimum of 100 square feet of outdoor play area for each child to be cared for,
and that the play area is fenced and screened with planting from any adjoining
lot in any single-family dwelling district
   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year
   Home occupations, as defined in this chapter
   Public libraries
   Public utility services, electric substations, gas regulating centers, water
pumping stations, telephone stations and other similar installations.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.051 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in the Single-Family Dwelling District shall be erected or
enlarged to exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.052 AREA REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged in the single-family dwelling
districts unless the yards and lot areas required in §§
155.053 through
155.058 are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.053 FRONT YARD.
   Front yard regulations for Single-Family Dwelling Districts shall be as set
forth below. Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a front
yard of not less than 20 feet in depth except as follows: the front yard depth
for a principal building located on a lot 70 feet measured along the street
line from the front corners of the lot under consideration, to any portion of
two or more lots in the same block and which lots are occupied by dwellings
that front on the same street as the proposed principal dwelling, shall be the
average front yard depth of such existing dwellings. In computing such front
yard depths existing buildings with front yard depths greater than 50 feet and
a building with a front yard depth less than 20 feet shall be assumed to have a
depth of 20 feet.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.054 REAR YARD.
   In the single-family dwelling district, there shall be a rear yard having a
depth of not less than ten feet.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.055 SIDE YARD.
   Side yard regulations for the Single-Family Dwelling Districts are as set
forth below:
   (A)   On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than seven feet, or 10% of the average lot width,
whichever is less, but in no case less than five feet.
   (B)   On corner lots, the side yard requirement shall be the same as for
interior lots, except that there shall be maintained a side yard of not less
than ten feet on the side adjacent to the street which intersects the street
upon which the building or structure maintains frontage.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.056 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 40% of the area of a lot in a single-family dwelling district
may be covered by main buildings, structures or accessory buildings.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.057 LOT AREA.
   Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered as a one-family
dwelling in the Single-Family Dwelling District shall be on a lot having an
area of not less than 6,000 square feet and a width of 60 feet; provided,
however, that where a lot having less area and width, but is a single tract and
the title thereof has been platted and recorded before the passage of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, the lot may be improved with a single-
family dwelling or structure and accessory buildings, provided the lot coverage
is within 75% of that required by the terms of this chapter, and provided
further, that the total lot area is not less than 4,000 square feet.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.058 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the front, side, and rear yards
as required by this chapter for the Single-Family Dwelling District.
Notwithstanding, if an accessory building is located closer than ten feet to
the main building, it shall be regarded as part of the main building for the
purpose of determining rear yard requirements. If the accessory building is
further than ten feet from the main building, it shall not be closer than two
feet from the rear property line. If a private garage is entered from an alley,
and the main door for motor vehicles to enter the garage is parallel to the
alley, it shall not be located closer than ten feet from the property line
abutting the alley right-of-way line.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 7-15-
03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.059 OUTDOOR STORAGE AND PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND
BOATS.
   (A)   The following words and phrases for the purposes of this section and
as used in this section shall be defined as follows:
      (1)   Recreational vehicle. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor
home, travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for
recreational purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial
business.
      (2)   Trailer. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other
than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being
drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests
upon the towing vehicle.
      (3)   Boat. Every description of watercraft used or capable of being used
as a means of transportation on water, except a seaplane on the water, air
mattress or similar device, and boats used for concession rides in artificial
bodies of water designed and used exclusively for such concessions.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles, trailer and boat are hereinafter
collectively referred to as “regulated vehicles.”
   (B)   Regulated vehicles stored in a single-family dwelling district may
only be parked behind the front setback lot line, within two feet of the front
property line, and two feet from the side yard setback of the property. The
regulated vehicle shall be stored on a surface of gravel, asphalt or concrete
if being parked in front of the principle structure. If the regulated vehicle
is parked at the rear of the property, it shall be parked at least three feet
off the side yard setback and three feet off the rear yard setback. Regulated
vehicles parked in the rear of the property shall not be required to be parked
on a hard surface as regulated vehicles in the front yard or side yard.
   (C)   If a regulated vehicle is parked in the front of the property, it
shall not block the view of traffic when accessing a street, avenue or alley.
   (D)   A stored regulated vehicle shall be maintained in a mobile condition.
No major construction or repair of a stored regulated vehicle shall be
performed in the front yard setback requirements for a single-family dwelling
district or multi-family dwelling district.
   (E)   The state license plates and display titles shall be current and
properly displayed. The owner of the regulated vehicle shall have and display
upon request to authorized city officials, proof of ownership of any stored
regulated vehicle.
   (F)   A regulated vehicle shall not be continuously parked on city roadways
or city easements for more than 72 continuous hours in accordance with Title
VII,
Chapter 72, Schedule XI.
   (G)   No occupancy of a regulated vehicle of any type is permitted, except
in a mobile home park.
(Ord. 1636, passed 8-26-19)
ONE-HALF SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 155.070 PERMITTED USE.
   It is unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in a
one-half acre Single-Family Dwelling District for any purpose other than the
following:
      Parks, playgrounds and community buildings owned or operated by public
agencies
      Public libraries
      Private schools, having an equivalent curriculum to public schools and
having no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping purposes
      Golf courses, except miniature courses and driving tees, and similar
commercial enterprises
      Churches, but only when off-street parking space is provided upon the lot
or within 200 feet thereof, which space is adequate to accommodate one car for
every five persons for which seating is provided in the main auditorium of the
church
      Accessory buildings, not involving the conduct of a business. Any
accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall be located
not less than 60 feet from the front lot line. Accessory buildings shall also
include church or public building bulletin boards and temporary signs
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, not
exceeding ten square feet in area
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.071 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in the one-half acre Single-Family Dwelling District shall
exceed two and one-half stories or shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.072 FRONT YARD.
   (A)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 40 feet,
unless 30% or more of the frontage improved with buildings that have observed a
greater or less depth of front yard in which instance no new building or
portion thereof shall project beyond a straight line drawn between the point
closest to the street line of the residence upon either side of the proposed
structure or, if there be residences upon only one side, then beyond the
straight line projected from the front of the two nearest residences, but this
regulation shall not be interpreted to require a front yard of more than 75
feet, nor to permit a front yard or less depth than that of the nearest
building. Where the street is curved, the line shall follow the curve of the
street rather than to be a straight line.
   (B)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   (C)   On a corner lot, there shall be a front yard on each street side of
such lot, except that the buildable width of such lot need not be reduced to
less than 40 feet. No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard
line on either street.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.073 REAR YARD.
   Except as provided in this chapter, there shall be a rear yard having a
depth of not less than 30 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount
is smaller.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.074 SIDE YARD.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, there shall be a
side yard on each side of a building having a width of not less than nine feet.
   (B)   Wherever a lot of record has a width of less than 75 feet, the side
yard on each side of a building may be reduced to a width of not less than 12%
of the width of the lot, but in no instance shall it be less than five feet.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.075 INTENSITY OF USE.
   Every lot or tract of land upon which a building is erected shall have an
area of not less than one-half acre and an average width of not less than 96
feet, except that any of the uses permitted in this district may be erected or
constructed on a smaller lot of record.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.076 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the front, side, and rear yards
as required by this chapter for the one-half acre Single-Family Dwelling
District. Notwithstanding, if an accessory building is located closer than ten
feet to the main building, it shall be regarded as part of the main building
for the purpose of determining rear yard requirements. If the accessory
building is further than ten feet from the main building, it shall not be
closer than two feet from the rear property line. If a private garage is
entered from an alley, and the main door for motor vehicles to enter the garage
is parallel to the alley, it shall not be located closer than ten feet from the
property line abutting the alley right-of-way line.
(Ord. 1219, passed 7-15-03)
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 155.085 PERMITTED USES.
   It is unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in a
multiple-family dwelling district for any purpose other than the following:
   Any use permitted in single-family dwelling district
   Multiple-family dwelling district and apartments
   Boardinghouse or lodging house
   Nursing or rest home
   Funeral home
   Clubs, lodges or fraternal organizations, when not operated for profit.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.086 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings in the multiple-family dwelling district shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.087 AREA REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing structure be enlarged
or altered for multiple-family use in the multiple-family dwelling district
unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such structure, alteration or enlargement.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.088 FRONT YARD.
   The same regulations shall apply in the multiple-family dwelling districts
as required in the Single-Family Dwelling District.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.089 REAR YARD.
   The same regulations shall apply in the multiple-family dwelling district as
required in the Single-Family Dwelling District.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.090 SIDE YARD.
   The same regulations shall apply in the multiple-family dwelling district as
required in the Single-Family Dwelling District.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.091 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 50% of the area of a lot in the multiple-family dwelling
district may be covered by main building, structures or accessory buildings.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.092 LOT AREA.
   (A)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered as a
multiple-dwelling, apartment or row dwelling of more than two dwellings shall
provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than 1,500 square feet.
   (B)   No building erected or structurally altered in the multiple-family
dwelling district shall have a total lot area of less than 5,500 square feet,
nor a lot width at the established building line of less than 50 feet, except
that single-family dwellings may be erected or structurally altered on lots
having an area of not less than 5,000 square feet and a width at the
established building line of 40 feet; provided, however, that where a lot
having less area and width, but is a single tract and the title thereof has
been platted and recorded prior to the passage of this chapter, the lot may be
improved with a dwelling or structure, provided all yards and open spaces are
within 75% of those required by the terms of this chapter, and provided
further, the total lot area is not less than 4,000 square feet.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.093 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the front, side, and rear yards
as required by this chapter for Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
Notwithstanding, if an accessory building is located closer than ten feet to
the main building, it shall be regarded as part of the main building for the
purpose of determining rear yard requirements. If the accessory building is
further than ten feet from the main building, it shall not be closer than two
feet from the rear property line. If a private garage is entered from an alley,
and the main door for motor vehicles to enter the garage is parallel to the
alley, it shall not be located closer than ten feet from the property line
abutting the alley right-of-way line.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 7-15-
03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.105 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in
the Business District for any purpose other than the following:
   Any use permitted in the multiple-family dwelling district
   Automobile sales and service shops and used car lots
   Automobile service stations
   Automobile trailer camp
   Agricultural implement sales and service
   Air-conditioning and heating sales and service
   Auction rooms
   Auditoriums
   Banks
   Bakeries
   Barber shops and beauty parlors
   Bus and passenger depots
   Business, music, dance or commercial schools
   Book or stationary stores
   Carpet and rug cleaners
   Catering establishments
   Chick hatcheries
   Cleaning and dyeing establishments
   Clothing and dress manufacturers
   Dance halls
   Department, furniture and home appliance stores
   Drive-in restaurants where soft drinks and/or food are served
   Drug stores
   Electrical appliance and repair shops
   Employment agencies
   Expressing, baggage and transfer delivery service
   Florist shops and greenhouses
   Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores
   Hardware stores
   Hotels
   Laundries, launderettes, laundromats
   Laboratories
   Machine shops, when not equipped with heavy punch presses or any machinery
creating vibration and noise disturbing to occupants of adjacent property
   Meat markets and poultry stores
   Offices
   Painting and decorating shops
   Parking lots
   Pet shops, animal hospitals or kennels, outdoor runs must be at least 100
feet from a residential district
   Photographers or artists studios
   Plumbing, heating and roofing supply and work shops
   Professional or service offices
   Radio and television sales and service stores
   Recreation places and theaters
   Restaurants
   Retail stores and services
   Shoe repair shops
   Tailor and dressmaking shops
   Taverns or stores for retail sale of alcoholic liquors, except as otherwise
provided in ordinances regulating the sale of alcoholic liquors
   Taxi service stations
   Telegraph service stations
   Trailer sales
   Tourist courts and motels
   Undertaking establishments
   Upholstering shops and antique furniture sales and service shops
   Wholesale establishments, excluding a building, the principal use of which
is for a storage warehouse
   Manufacturing or processing which is clearly incidental to retail use is
permitted. Such manufacturing or processing is limited to that which employs
not more than ten persons in the manufacturing or processing and which does not
constitute a nuisance
   Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory buildings
when located on the same lot. All business or service of aforesaid stores,
shops or businesses should be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building, except for automobile parking and used car lots, lumber and coal
yards, agricultural implement sales, off-street loading areas and sales of
automobile fuel.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any section or chapter of
this zoning code, it shall be unlawful to use the ground floor or first floor
as a residence or as a dwelling in any building on either side of Fourth Street
between the intersection of Fourth Street and Twelfth Avenue and the
intersection of Fourth Street and Tenth Avenue and any building on the west
side of Fourth Street between the intersection of Fourth Street and Tenth
Avenue and the intersection of Fourth Street and Ninth Avenue, and in any
building on either side of Tenth Avenue between its intersection with Fourth
Street and its intersection with First Street and any building on the north
side of First Street between its intersection with Ninth Avenue to its
intersection with Eleventh Avenue. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
herein, the restrictions set forth in this section shall not apply to any
buildings which were lawfully used as a residence or dwelling on September 1,
2002, and such use may continue until such use of the land or building has
ceased by discontinuance or abandonment for a period of one year or the
building has been damaged or destroyed to the extent described in §
155.168 and in any such event shall thereafter conform to the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   The permitted uses listed in division (A) of this section shall not be
construed to include any of the uses described in divisions (C)(1) through (C)
(3).
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any section or chapter
of this zoning code, it shall be unlawful to use any building, or lot located
within the Business District to manufacture, process, or offer for sale any
product for human consumption via ingestion, inhalation, injection, absorption
through the skin, or any other process by which said product can be introduced
the human body if said product contains any of the following substances whether
in raw or processed form:
         (a)   hemp or industrial hemp as those terms are defined by the
Industrial Hemp Act (ILCS Ch. 505, Act 89, § 5);
         (b)   Delta-8 tetrahydrocannabinol (also known as delta-8 THC);
         (c)   Delta-10 tetrahydrocannabinol (also known as delta-10 THC);
         (d)   Kratom; and
         (e)   Cannabidiol (also known as CBD).
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any section or chapter
of this zoning code, it shall be unlawful to use any building, structure, or
lot located within the Business District for the manufacture or sale of
equipment, product or material of any kind which is primarily intended or
designed for use in manufacturing, compounding, converting, concealing,
producing, processing, preparing, injecting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing
into the human body the substances listed in §
155.105(C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(e) of this zoning code or cannabis as that term
is defined under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, §
1-10).
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any section or chapter
of this zoning code, it shall be unlawful to use any building, structure, or
lot located within the Business District for the purpose of providing space for
individuals or groups to ingest, inhale, inject, absorb through the skin, or
engage in any other process by which the substances listed in §
155.105(C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(e) can be introduced into the human body. This
division shall not be construed to prohibit individuals residing within the
Business District from consuming any substances within their residences which
are otherwise legal under local, state or federal law.
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any section or chapter
of this zoning code, any individual, firm, association, partnership, trust, or
other legal entity engaged in a nonconforming use under §
155.105(C) of this zoning code as of the effective date of this §
155.105(C) who continues to engage in said use pursuant to §
155.165 of this zoning code shall immediately and permanently cease to engage
in its nonconforming use upon revocation, non-renewal or denial of any license
required by local, state, or federal authorities to engage in such use. Any
nonconforming use under §
155.105(C) permitted to continue under §
155.165 of this zoning code may not be expanded to include additional
nonconforming uses under this division (C) or to manufacture, process, or sell
products which contain a substance listed in §
155.105(C)(1) that was not contained any product manufactured, processed, or
offered for sale by said nonconforming user as of the effective date of §
155.105(C) of the zoning code.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1194, passed 9-5-
02; Am. Ord. 1314, passed 7-17-06; Am. Ord. 1733, passed 3-25-24) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 155.106 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the
Business District to exceed three stories but in no event shall the three
stories exceed 45 feet in height. If the design of the building requires three
stories which would exceed 45 feet in height, permission may be granted to
permit a height not to exceed 50 feet with the written approval of both the
Zoning Officer and the City Administrator.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Ord. 1253, passed 9-7-04)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.107 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No front or side yards shall be required in the Business District
except that when a building or group of buildings abut upon a residential
district, a side yard shall be provided on the side of the lot abutting the
residential district, such yards having a width of not less than five feet.
   (B)   There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than ten feet when
abutting upon a publicly dedicated alley or public way and not less than 20
feet when no dedicated alley or public way exists at the rear of the lot. The
rear yard may be used for off-street parking and loading.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
OUTLYING BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.110 AREA INCLUDED.
   The Outlying Business District shall be comprised of the following area now
part of the Business District: An area bounded by Highway 84 to the East,
Highway 136 to the North and 16th Avenue to the South.
(Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21)
§ 155.111 PERMITTED USES.
   It is unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in the
Outlying Business District for any purpose other than the following:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the Business District;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
(Ord. 1646, passed 2-24-20; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21)
§ 155.112 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Same provisions as existing §
155.106.
(Ord. 1646, passed 2-24-20; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21)
§ 155.113 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Same provisions as existing §
155.107.
(Ord. 1646, passed 2-24-20; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21)
INDUSTRY DISTRICT
§ 155.120 PERMITTED USES.
   It is unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in an
Industry District for any purpose other than the following:
   Any use permitted in the Business District, excepting all dwellings
   Building equipment, building materials, lumber, coal, sand and gravel yards
and yards for contracting equipment and maintenance, or operating equipment of
public agencies or public utilities, or materials or equipment of similar
nature.
   Commercial storage units and mini-warehouses. Commercial storage units and
mini-warehouses shall not be permitted in any other district except industrial
districts.
   Any manufacturing use and any other use not in conflict with any city
ordinance regulating nuisances; provided, however, that no building or
occupancy permit shall be issued for any of the following uses until the
location and plan of development of such use have been authorized by the City
Council, and after report by the Enforcing Officer of the city finding that
there will be no fire hazard, noxious odors or contamination of the air, and
that the general health, safety and welfare of the people of the city will not
be endangered:
      Acid manufacture
      Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture
      Distillation of bones
      Explosives, manufacture or storage
      Fat rendering
      Fertilizer manufacture
      Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction
      Glue manufacture
      Petroleum refining; wholesale storage of petroleum products
      Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores
      Stockyards or slaughter of animals
      Varnish manufacture
   The Industrial District bounded by 22nd Avenue to the South, 9th Street to
the East, Route 84 to the West, and 31st Avenue to the North, and that area
bounded by 31st Avenue to the South, Highway 84 to the West, Highway 30 to the
North and 4th Street to the West:
      Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
      Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
      Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization
      Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Ord. 1314, passed 7-17-06;
Am. Ord. 1646, passed 2- 24-20; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.130 FENCES.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, the word fence shall he defined as
follows: includes any barrier structure, wall of posts, rails, gates and any
other members, not part of a building or natural screening, constructed of
wood, metal, wire, masonry, plastic, stone, chain link, wire mesh and any other
materials, place or used in whole or in part as a boundary or as an ornamental
feature or as means of protection, security, screening, privacy or confinement,
or otherwise serving the functions commonly ascribed to a fence or wall, but
shall not include any wall constructed timbers, masonry or other materials for
the principal purpose of maintaining terrace or controlling erosion; or any
natural growing hedge, shrub or other plant life.
      (2)   The regulations in this section shall apply to all fences
constructed within the corporate limits of the City of Fulton.
      (3)   A building permit as required in §
155.200 shall be obtained prior to the construction of any fence. All
applications for building permits shall show the proposed location of the fence
in reference to lot lines and existing structures. The care and maintenance of
both sides of the fence as well as the surrounding grass, weeds, bushes and
like shall be the full responsibility of the fence owner.
      (4)   No private fence shall be erected within a public right-of-way, and
the city shall have the right to require the removal of any fence on a public
right-of-way at the owner's expense and at no cost to the city.
      (5)   All fences shall be constructed on the fence owner's property or
side of the property line. The owner of the fence shall maintain both sides of
the fence.
      (6)   Snow fences shall not be placed in the front yard except as
specifically permitted by the city. Snow fences shall be constructed of winter
neutral colors such as brown or green. Snow fences shall only be permitted
during the period beginning November 1 and ending on March 30 of the following
year.
      (7)   No fence shall be maintained or erected if it is constructed with
an material which is likely to inflict bodily harm should a person or animal
come in contact with the fence. The following materials are prohibited to be
used in construction of a fence:
         (a)   Scrap metal;
         (b)   Corrugated metal;
         (c)   Sheet metal;
         (d)   Electric fence or any kind of electrically charged fence unless
used as part of livestock enclosures;
         (e)   Razor wire;
         (f)   Pallets, oriented strand boards (OSB), plywood;
         (g)   Used or repurposed materials; and
         (h)   Sharp or ragged metal spikes or spears.
      (8)   No fence which interrupts, impedes or otherwise alters the natural
flow of water shall be erected in any single-family or multi-family district.
      (9)   No electric fence, barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be
erected in the city except where agricultural ground is located.
      (10)   All fences shall be erected so the finish side faces out, and the
unfinished side faces the property of the person who has erected the fence.
      (11)   All fences, hedges and landscape screening shall be maintained in
good, structurally sound repair, and in neat clean and attractive condition.
      (12)   With respect to fences, the rear yard shall include the side yard
up to the rear building line of the principal building.
      (13)   A fence shall not extend beyond front of the principal building.
      (14)   No fence shall be erected in excess of six feet in height with the
sole exception of the requirements for fences surrounding swimming pools set
forth in §
155.138.
      (15)   In Business districts and Industry districts a fence may be
erected to a height of eight feet in height and may not have any material which
is likely to inflict bodily harm should a person or animal come in contact with
the fence. No barbed wire or electric are allowed. No barbed wire will be
allowed at the top of any fence.
   (B)   Nonconforming fences.
      (1)   Subject to the limitation and termination provisions hereafter set
forth, any lawful existing nonconforming Fence may continue so long as it
otherwise remains lawful after the effective date of the ordinance from which
this section is derived. No nonconforming fence shall be:
         (a)   Changed or altered in any manner which would increase the degree
of its nonconformity;
         (b)   Expanded;
         (c)   Changed or altered to prolong its useful life;
         (d)   Moved in whole or in part to any other location where it would
remain nonconforming.
      (2)   Any nonconforming fence that meets any of the criteria in division
(B)(1) shall be subject to the provisions provided in this chapter. Should any
nonconforming fence be damaged to 50% of its replacement cost, the fence shall
not be replaced except according to the provisions provided in this section for
a new fence.
   (C)   Fence height for parks and schools. The height requirements for parks,
ball parks and schools may exceed the height requirements set forth in §
155.130 with the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals, the City Council and
the City Administrator.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 1229, passed
12-1-03; Am. Ord. 1635, passed 8-26-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.131 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Supplemental regulations. The regulations set forth in divisions (B)
through (D) of this section qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the
district use height regulations appearing elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Public service buildings. Public, semi-public or public service
buildings, hospitals, institutions or schools, when permitted in a district,
may be erected to a height not exceeding 60 feet and churches and temples may
be erected to a height not exceeding 50 feet.
   (C)   Increased allowance with additional setback. Single-family dwellings
and multiple dwellings may be increased in height by not more than ten feet
when the front, side and rear yards are increased over the yard requirements of
the district in which they are located by one foot for each additional foot of
building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in
which the building is built.
   (D)   Exceptions. Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, grain
elevators, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lots, tanks,
water towers, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio and
television towers, television antennas or necessary mechanical existing or
hereafter adopted ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.132 RESERVED.
§ 155.133 RESERVED.
§ 155.134 PROPERTY ANNEXATION.
   All property hereafter annexed to the city shall be classified as a
residential district until this classification is changed by amendment to this
chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.135 MOBILE HOMES.
   The placing of a mobile home in any district is not permitted except in a
mobile home court that has been approved by the City Council and licensed by
the state of Illinois.
(Am. Ord. 889, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.136 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT.
   Not more than one building that is not an accessory building shall be
located on a zoning lot, nor shall such a building be located on the same
zoning lot with any other building that is not an accessory building except in
an industrial district, subject to all their application sections of the zoning
ordinance. No accessory building shall be constructed on a vacant lot unless
such lot is combined with an adjoining lot to form a zoning lot and otherwise
comply with all regulations of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1144, passed 11-7-00; Am. Ord. 1152, passed 1-2-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.137 DIVISION OF ZONING LOTS.
   No improved zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into two or more zoning
lots and no portion of any improved zoning lot shall be sold, unless all zoning
lots resulting from each such division or sale shall conform with all
applicable regulations of the zoning district in which the property is located.
(Ord. 1141, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 1152, passed 1-2-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.138 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   A swimming pool shall mean any water-filled enclosure, permanently
constructed or portable, having a depth of more than two feet above or below
grade and more than 12 feet in width in some dimension. This section also
applies to a spa or spa pool, regardless of size, but does not apply to natural
swimming areas or agricultural land waters.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a swimming pool may
be enclosed by a fence four feet high or more and less than six feet in height
if the swimming pool is equipped with a pool cover approved in advance by a
majority of the City Administrator, Public Works Director and Zoning Enforcing
Officer.
   (C)   If a fence is attached to a swimming pool, the outside walls of the
swimming pool can be used to meet the six foot to eight foot height
requirement.
   (D)   All swimming pools, including any attached decks, may not be closer
than the required side and rear yard setbacks to any property line.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary hereto, any swimming pool in
existence on January 1, 2002, with a five-foot fence surrounding the pool,
shall be allowed to retain the five-foot fence and shall not be required to
construct a six-foot to eight-foot in height fence until such time as the fence
is removed for any reason. If the fence is removed for any reason, then the
replacement fence shall comply with the terms of this section.
   (G)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, no fence as
provided under this section shall be required to be constructed to surround a
swimming pool that is defined herein as an inflatable and temporary swimming
pool. A temporary swimming pool shall be defined as a swimming pool that is not
permanent and is disassembled and stored indoors at least six months out of
each 12-month period. An inflatable swimming pool shall be defined as a
swimming pool that requires the use of air or gas to be pumped into a membrane
which expands in size to create the shape and structure of the swimming pool.
(Ord. 1186, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 1229, passed 12-1-03; Am. Ord. 1321,
passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 1463, passed 9-4-12)
§ 155.139 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Downtown Business District, also commonly referred to as the
Heritage Business District, shall be defined as follows: The regulations of the
District shall apply to existing structures and buildings or structures and
buildings constructed after the effective date of this section or in the
process of being constructed or being constructed on the effective date of this
section which are situated on all or any part of the following described lots
in the city which are generally situated along Fourth Street between its
intersection with Tenth Avenue and Twelfth Avenue:
Lots: Lot 2 in Block 10 in Range 10, Lots 1 and 2 in Block 11 in Range 10, and
Lots 1 and 2 in Block 12 in Range 10, Lot 6 in Block 4 of West Fractions, Lots
10, 9, 8, 7, and 6 in Block 5 of West Fractions, Lots 10, 9, 8, 7, and 6 in
Block 6 of West Fractions, including all vacated streets or alleys adjoining
said lots.
   (B)   The regulations and standards set forth in this section shall apply to
all existing structures and to any structures hereinafter constructed in the
Downtown Business District.
   (C)   Structure appearance standards. All structures shall comply with each
of the following requirements:
      (1)   For all new construction, the front exterior of a new structure
shall have a facing material 50% of the gross wall area from the eave or coping
line down to grade line constructed from one of the preferred materials
approved by the City Council which may include glass, brick, glaze tile, wood
or an approved equivalent. The facades of new structures shall have a front
side that matches a majority (more than 50%) of consistent building patterns of
existing structures within the District.
      (2)   Material guidelines:
         (a)   Material used shall be selected for suitability to the type of
structure or design in which they are used.
         (b)   Materials shall have good architectural quality and character.
      (3)   Exceptions. Structures completely screened by other structures from
a public street or not clearly visible from a public street shall be exempt
from these requirements.
      (4)   In the event that a dispute arises as to which wall constitutes the
front of a structure, the decision shall be made solely by the City Council by
considering what the general public would regard as the front of the
structures. The City Council will also determine alternative facing material
than those specified in this section.
      (5)   All existing exposed brick structures in the District shall
maintain the brick facade or the brick facade shall be restored to its original
appearance.
      (6)   All exposed glass in any structure shall be maintained or restored
to its original appearance.
      (7)   All awnings attached to any structures in the District shall be
constructed of fabric. This prohibition shall not include overhangs from any
structures.
   (D)   No building shall be demolished within the District unless a hardship
exception has been granted by majority vote of the City Council after a written
application has been submitted by the owners on a form approved by the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 1194, passed 9-5-02; Am. Ord. 1314, passed 7-17-06; Am. Ord. 1336, passed
3-19-07)
§ 155.140 PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
maintain a portable storage container on private or public property (except in
an Industry District) unless a permit for temporary use is obtained in advance
pursuant to this section. No permit may be granted for a portable storage
container more than eight feet wide or more than 20 feet in length.
   (B)   Application. An application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning
Enforcing Officer providing such information as the Enforcing Officer shall
require by rules adopted by the Enforcing Officer. A permit issued by the
Enforcing Officer shall allow the temporary use of a portable storage container
for a period not to exceed 30 days. The Enforcing Officer shall have the right
to grant one extension for an additional 30 day period upon application to and
approval by the Enforcing Officer of such extension. If an extension is granted
an additional permit fee must be paid by the applicant. The Enforcing Officer
may require insurance or security if the permit provides for placement of the
portable storage container on public property. Permits shall be limited to one
permit per zoning lot per year and no applicant shall be granted another permit
within a period of one year after the application date for a permit granted
hereunder.
   (C)   Permit fee. A permit fee shall be paid in the amount provided
according to the fee schedule on file and available for public inspection in
the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Location. No portable storage container shall be placed in any of the
following locations:
      (1)   Within the front yard as defined in this chapter,
      (2)   On any parkway or sidewalk,
      (3)   In violation of the set back requirements for the side yard or back
yard as set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Placement, appearance and maintenance of portable storage container.
It shall be the responsibility of the person issued the permit to place the
portable storage container in the appropriate location granted by the permit,
to maintain the portable storage container free of graffiti and to ensure that
no spillage of materials or materials escape from the container and litter any
property in the city.
   (F)   Not apply in Industry District. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein, portable storage container's shall be permitted without regard
to the regulations stated in this section on any property zoned as an Industry
District under this chapter and the provisions of this section regulating
portable storage containers shall not apply to property located in an Industry
District as defined in this chapter.
   (G)   Penalties. Any person violating this section shall be subject to a
fine in an amount not less than $50 and not more than $750 for each offense.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1280, passed 6-6-05)
§ 155.141 ADULT-USE CANNABIS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide part of the regulations of the city regarding the
cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within
the corporate limits of the City of Fulton. Such facilities shall comply with
all regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027)
(Act), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder, the regulations provided herein, and all other regulations relating
to cannabis and adult-use cannabis business establishments in any other section
of the Fulton Code of Ordinances. In the event that the Act is amended, the
more restrictive of the state or City of Fulton regulations shall apply.
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower. In those zoning districts in which an
adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   Facility must comply with the parking requirements in
Chapter 155 of the Zoning Code, provided, however, that the city may require
that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Fulton Code of Ordinances and
all other requirements of the Act.
   (C)   Adult-use cultivation center. Adult-use cultivation centers shall be
prohibited within the corporate limits of the City of Fulton. No person shall
locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or aide, abet or assist in
the operation within the City of Fulton any adult-use cultivation center.
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization. In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet
of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      (3)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as authorized in
division (D)(5) below in the same tenant space.
      (4)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (5)   Facility may not be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis.
      (6)   Facility must comply with the parking requirements in
Chapter 155 of the Zoning Code, provided, however, that the city may require
that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed.
      (7)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Fulton Code of Ordinances and
all other requirements of the Act.
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization. In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   Facility must comply with the parking requirements in
Chapter 155 of the Zoning Code, provided, however, that the city may require
that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Fulton Code of Ordinances and
all other requirements of the Act.
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization. Adult-use processing
organizations shall be prohibited within the corporate limits of the City of
Fulton. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aide, abet or assist in the operation within the City of Fulton any adult-use
cannabis processing organization.
   (G)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis transporting organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   Facility must comply with the parking requirements in
Chapter 155 of the Zoning Code, provided, however, that the city may require
that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Fulton Code of Ordinances and
all other requirements of the Act.
   (H)   Additional requirements. Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as
established by the city, to ensure the safety of employees and customers of the
adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its environs. Said
improvements shall be determined based upon the specific characteristics of the
floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business establishment and the site on
which it is located, consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 1646, passed 2-24-20; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 3-22-21)
§ 155.142 CARPORTS.
   (A)   A carport is hereby defined as an enclosed shelter for a vehicle that
consists of a roof supported by posts and is built immediately adjacent to or
attached to a building.
   (B)   Carports shall be considered an accessory building as defined in §
155.001.
   (C)   The height of a carport shall not exceed 12 feet above the centerline
of the adjoining street.
   (D)   Carports are only allowed in single-family dwelling district,
multiple-family dwelling district or in a one-half acre single-family dwelling
district.
   (E)   A carport can be placed on the ground, on a cement pad or on a gravel
pad.
   (F)   A carport is allowed to have metal siding as long as the siding is the
same color as the principal residence. However, the siding cannot totally
enclose the carport.
   (G)   Carports shall be anchored sufficiently to the ground to ensure that
wind cannot cause them to be a danger to property and persons. Carports shall
be anchored to the satisfaction of the zoning enforcing officer.
   (H)   A carport shall comply with all the setback requirements of a garage.
   (I)   A carport shall shelter not more than three vehicles and shall not
exceed 24 feet on its longest dimension.
   (J)   All carports shall have a solid roof and the sides if not totally
enclosed shall not be less than 12 inches or greater than 36 inches from the
roof.
(Ord. 1659, passed 2-24-20)
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.145 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   In an effort to alleviate undue congestion on city streets, to protect the
public's interest and investment and to insure the traffic carrying capacities
of our streets, off-street parking and loading spaces shall be required for all
land uses. If ambiguity arises concerning the number of spaces required, the
classification shall be the same as for a comparable use as determined by the
Enforcing Officer. If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision, a request for
formal determination by the Zoning Board of Appeals may be made. The following
requirements shall be used when computing parking unless modified by the
approving authority.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.146 SIZE AND LOCATION.
   Off-street parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet in width and not
less than 20 feet in length. If covered, seven feet in height shall be
provided. There shall be no parking in the required front yard, with the
exception of single-family detached houses and two family duplex land uses.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.147 DUAL USE PROHIBITED.
   No off-street parking spaces required for any building or use for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as
part or the off-street parking space required for another building or use
unless approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.148 SURFACING.
   All parking spaces and access drives shall be improved with an all weather
surface or equivalent surface and shall be graded and drained to dispose of all
surface water accumulation within the area.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.149 DESIGN.
   All one-way drive lanes shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width, and all two-
way drive lanes shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.150 PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL USES.
   (A)   If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a
particular use within the meaning and intent of these requirements, it shall be
the duty of the Enforcing Officer to interpret the appropriate classification.
If the applicant is aggrieved to the decision, a request for final
determination by the Zoning Board of Appeals may be made.
   (B)   The following are parking ratios for computing the number of parking
stalls for specific uses:
   LAND USE                     NUMBER OF REQUIRED SPACES
   A.    Residential
      1. One family and two family            2 per dwelling unit
      2. Multi-family units               2 per dwelling unit
      3. Housing for elderly               1 each 2 dwelling units
   B.    Commercial and Professional
      1. Shopping Center - unified            5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
      2. Business establishments            5.0 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
      3. Radio and T.V. studios            5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
      4. Offices and office parks            3.3 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
      5. Laboratories                  1.0 each employee
      6. Private clubs                  3.0 each 4 members
      7. Hotels and motels               1.0 per guest room plus
                           1.0 each full time employee
      8. Restaurants                  1.0 per 3 seats
      9. Medical buildings               1.0 per 3 seats
      10. Greenhouses in excess of 200 sq. ft.      5.0 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
      11. Funeral homes and mortuaries         1.0 each 4 seats maximum
                           1.0 each funeral vehicle
      12. Amusement enterprises            5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
      13. Theaters                  1.0 each 3 seats
   C.    Land Use/Public and Quasi Public
      1. Churches                  1.0 each 5 seats
      2. Public libraries               1.0 each 300 sq. ft. GFA
      3. Studios for fine arts, art galleries,          5.5 each full time
employee
      exhibit halls, museums, reading rooms,
      community centers
      4. Charitable institutions            2.0 each full time employee
      5. Hospitals, sanitariums,            1.0 each full time employee
      nursing homes, rest homes,            1.0 each 4 beds
      convalescent homes
   D.    Recreational
      1. Golf courses               108.0 for 18-hole courses
                           54.0 for 9-hole courses
      2. Country Club               1.0 each 4 memberships
   E.    Educational
      1. Elementary School               1.0 each faculty and staff
      2. Junior High School               1.0 each faculty and staff
      3. Senior High School               1.0 each faculty and staff plus 1 for
each 5 class seats
      4. Business colleges/trade schools         1.0 each student
                           1.0 each instructor
      5. Preschool and nursery school         1.0 each faculty and staff
   F.    Industrial
      1. All uses                  5.5 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. GPA or 2 stalls
for every 3 people per shift, but in no event less than 2 spaces per every
1,000 sq. ft. of GFA.
   (C)   As used in this chapter, the word “seat” shall mean any chair, stool
or bench, movable or stationary, intended to be sat in or on by one individual
and shall not include any seat or seating located outside the enclosed building
of the restaurant which is seasonal in nature.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1141, passed 8-24-00)
§ 155.151 LOADING SPACES.
   All business and professional establishments shall have one off-street
loading space for each 10,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.152 PARKING PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   All land uses in all zoning districts, with the exception of single-
family detached houses and two-family duplex uses, prior to the issuance of a
building permit, shall have an approved parking plan. The plan, drawn to scale,
submitted in duplicate, may be approved by the Enforcing Officer and must show
the following:
      (1)   Boundaries of the property where the proposed use is to be located;
      (2)   Purpose, size, location and use of the structure for which the
parking spaces are required; and
      (3)   Layout of driveways, parking and loading spaces.
   (B)   No parking shall be permitted in the required front yard and must be
adequately screened from adjacent residential districts. The plan for screening
must be approved by the Enforcing Officer.
   (C)   One copy of the approved parking plan shall be retained by the
Enforcing Officer and one copy shall be returned to and retained by the
applicant.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.165 CONTINUANCE.
   The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the time of the adoption or
the ordinance codified in this chapter may continue, although such does not
conform to the regulations specified by this chapter with the district in which
such land or building is located subject to the conditions and specifications
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.166 NONCONFORMING LAND USE.
   A nonconforming use of land (outside of a building) shall be made to conform
to the provisions of this chapter within a period of two years after adoption
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, provided that this shall not apply
to land devoted to agricultural uses at the time of the adoption of this
chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.167 DISCONTINUED OR ABANDONED USE.
   Any nonconforming use of land or buildings which has ceased by
discontinuance or abandonment for a period of six months shall thereafter
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.168 DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BUILDING.
   Any nonconforming building which has been destroyed or damaged by fire,
explosion, act of God or by a public enemy to the extent of 60% or more of its
assessed valuation shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter.
Where more than 40% of the assessed value of the building remains after such
damage, such structure may be restored to the same nonconforming use as existed
before such damage.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.169 MOVEMENT OR USE OF BUILDING.
   No nonconforming use of a building may be moved to any other part of a
parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the time of adoption of this
chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.170 STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.
   No nonconforming building shall be enlarged or structurally altered except
to make it a conforming building. A nonconforming use of a building existing at
the time of the adoption of this chapter may be extended throughout the
building provided no structural alterations except those required by this
chapter or law are made therein.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.171 CHANGE TO MORE RESTRICTED CLASSIFICATION.
   The use of a nonconforming building may be changed to a more restricted
classification or a use of equal character, but not to a less restricted
classification.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.172 NONCONFORMING SIGNS OR BILLBOARDS.
   Any nonconforming signs or billboards shall be removed within a period of
two years from the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross reference:
   Billboards and signs, see
Ch. 152
§ 155.173 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The foregoing provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in districts
hereafter changed by amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.174 AGRICULTURAL USES.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, any land that was
devoted to agricultural use at the time of the adoption of this chapter, may
continue to devote the land to agricultural uses and shall further be allowed
to erect, enlarge, or structurally alter any building for an agricultural use,
provided that prior to erecting a new building, or enlarging or structurally
altering any existing building, written permission of the City Council is
granted.
(Ord. 1290, passed 9-6-05)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 155.185 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA ARRAY. One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omni-directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic
antenna (disc). ANTENNA ARRAY does not include the support structure.
   ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (ATTACHED WCF). An antenna array
that is attached to an existing building or structure (attachment structure),
which structures shall include but not be limited to utility poles, signs,
water towers, with any accompanying pole or device (attachment device) which
attaches the antenna array to the existing building or structure and associated
connection cables, and an equipment facility which may be located either inside
or outside of the attachment structure.
   COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING. Use of a common WCF or common site by two or more
wireless license holders or by one wireless license holder for more than one
type of communications technology and/or placement of a WCF on a structure
owned or operated by a utility or other public entity.
   EQUIPMENT FACILITY. Any structure used to contain ancillary equipment for a
WCF which includes cabinets, shelters, a buildout of an existing structure,
pedestals, and other similar structures.
   HEIGHT. The distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the
WCF, including the antenna array.
   SETBACK. The required distance from the property line of the parcel on which
the WCF is located to the support structure.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure designed and constructed specifically to
support an antenna array, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice)
tower, guy-wire-support tower and other similar structures or towers. Any
device (attachment device) which is used to attach an attached WCF to an
existing building or structure (attachment structure) shall be excluded from
the definition of and regulations applicable to support structures.
   TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (TEMPORARY WCF). A WCF to be
placed in use for 90 or fewer days.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any personal wireless services as defined in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, as may be amended, which includes FCC licensed
commercial wireless telecommunications services including cellular, personal
communication services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently
exist or that may in the future be developed.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF). Any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually
consisting of an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility, and a
support structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
(Ord. 1140, passed 8-7-00)
§ 155.186 APPLICATION FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, install development, attach or
otherwise connect a WCF or antenna array in the city or within one mile of the
corporate limits of the city shall complete an application in the form approved
by the city and submit the completed application to the zoning enforcement
office and must obtain a building permit. No new support structure shall be
permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of
the city that no existing support or structure can accommodate the applicant's
proposed antenna array. Collocation/site sharing shall be preferred instead of
construction and of a new support structure.
   (B)   Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing support or
structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna array may consist of
any of the following:
      (1)   No existing support or structures are located within the geographic
area required to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
      (2)   Existing support or structures are not of sufficient height to meet
applicant's engineering requirements.
      (3)   Existing support or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
      (4)   The applicant's proposed antenna array would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna array on the existing support structures, or the
antenna array on the existing support structures would cause interference with
the applicant's proposed antenna array.
      (5)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in
order to share an existing support structure or to adapt an existing support or
structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new support structure
development and construction are presumed to be unreasonable.
      (6)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing support and structures unsuitable.
(Ord. 1140, passed 8-7-00)
§ 155.187 RESTRICTIONS TO CONSTRUCTION TYPE AND SPACING OF NEW SUPPORT
STRUCTURES.
   Support structures for wireless communications facilities shall be of the
monopole type construction, and shall be spaced a minimum of 1,000 feet from
any other wireless communications facility support structure.
(Ord. 1140, passed 8-7-00)
§ 155.188 REQUIREMENT FOR USE OF PUBLIC FACILITIES AND SITES FOR LOCATION OF
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   The following sites shall be considered by applicants as the preferred order
for location of proposed wireless facilities including antenna(e) array,
equipment, and equipment shelters. As determined feasible, and in order of
preference, the sites are:
   (A)   Publicly-used structures and sites. Attached to existing public
facilities such as water towers, utility structures, fire stations, bridges,
and other public buildings within all zoning districts;
   (B)   Collocation/site sharing on existing broadcast and relay towers or
support structures;
   (C)   Industrial district sites;
   (D)   Business district sites;
   (E)   Single-family dwelling district, one-half acre single-family dwelling
district, multiple family dwelling district; and
   (F)   Residential structures.
(Ord. 1140, passed 8-7-00)
§ 155.189 ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   For city-owned properties and industrial districts, attached WCFs and
support structures are allowable with approved building permit and necessary
agreements. All other districts require a special use permit as provided under
the city's zoning code.
(Ord. 1140, passed 8-7-00)
§ 155.190 SPECIFY STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Height.
      (1)   Attached WCFs shall not add more than 20 feet height to the
existing building or structure to which it is attached (attachment structure).
      (2)   Maximum allowable height for WCFs with support structures shall be
200 feet in industrial districts, 150 feet in business districts, and 100 feet
in all other districts.
   (B)   Setback.
      (1)   Attached WCFs are exempt from any setback standards. An attached
WCF antenna array may extend up to five feet horizontally beyond the edge of
the attachment structure so long as the antenna array does not encroach upon an
adjoining parcel.
      (2)   Minimum setback for WCFs with support structures shall be ten feet
from the front and five feet from the side and rear lot lines in industrial
districts, 20 feet from the front and ten feet from the side and rear lot lines
in business districts, and 30 feet from all lot lines in all other districts.
(Ord. 1140, passed 8-7-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.200 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered
until a building permit shall be issued by the Enforcing Officer stating that
the building or structure and use of land comply with the regulations of this
chapter and all building and health laws and ordinances of the state and the
city.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.201 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans in
duplicate drawn to scale in ink or blueprint, showing the actual shape and
dimension of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size and height of the
building or structure to be erected or structurally altered, its exact location
on the lot or lots to be built upon, the existing or intended use of each
building or part, the proposed number of families or housekeeping units, and
other such other information with regard to the lot and building and
neighboring lots and buildings as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this chapter. One copy of the plans shall be signed and returned
to the applicant when approved by the Enforcing Officer together with such
permit as may be granted. A careful record of such application and plans shall
be kept in the office of the Enforcing Officer.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1389, passed 4-20-
09; Am. Ord. 1509, passed 8-4-14)
§ 155.202 PERMIT DISPLAY REQUIREMENT.
   All building permits issued under this chapter shall be displayed on such
structure for public view.
(Ord. 653, - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.203 PERMIT INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All work performed under a permit issued by the Enforcing
Officer shall conform to the approved application and approved amendments
thereto. The location of all new construction as shown on the approved plans or
an approved amendment thereof shall be strictly adhered to.
      (2)   The Enforcing Officer may revoke a permit or approval issued under
the provisions of this chapter in case there have been any false statements or
misrepresentation as to a material part in the application or drawings on which
the permit or approval was based.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or plan
of which a plan and diagram has been filed and has been used as the basis for a
permit unless a revised plan and diagram showing the proposed change in
condition shall have been filed and approved.
   (C)   (1)   The Enforcing Officer shall be provided not less than 24 hours
advance written notice of the commencement of work authorized under any
building permit issued by the city. Construction according to the terms of the
building permit shall commence within 90 days from the date of issuance of the
permit and if construction does not commence within said 90 day period, the
building permit shall expire. The building permit shall expire 365 days
following the date of issuance of the building permit (excluding the date of
issuance from the calculation). Notwithstanding, in the event that the building
project requires more than 365 days to complete based upon the size of the
building or other reasonable cause deemed to be valid by the Enforcing Officer,
the Enforcing Officer shall have the authority to grant one or two 90-day
extensions to complete construction. Construction (including excavation for a
basement or foundation of the structure) shall not commence before the building
permit has been issued by the Enforcing Officer.
      (2)   If construction according to the building permit ceases for more
than 90 consecutive calendar days, the building project set forth in the
building permit shall be deemed abandoned. If construction on a building
project has been abandoned, the building permit shall immediately expire and
the building permit shall be revoked. Upon expiration or revocation of a
building permit, all construction shall cease and the construction site shall
be in a manner sufficient to protect the public.
   (D)   Prior to beginning building or construction, stakes based upon the
plan or diagram submitted or based on an actual survey if requested in the sole
discretion of the Enforcing Officer shall be set and shall be maintained in
their proper location on the property during construction. It shall be the duty
of the Enforcing Officer to inspect the layout of the proposed work immediately
after receipt of a notice to start work is given to the Enforcing Officer by
the applicant. The Enforcing Officer shall satisfy himself/herself that the
proposed work is conforming to the plans submitted with the application for a
permit. If work started does not conform to the plans or diagram or other
information provided in the application, the Enforcing Officer is hereby
granted authority to stop work until the provisions of the permit are complied
with.
   (E)   A permanent record shall be kept of all applications for permits and
it shall be unlawful to change the use or occupancy of a building or land to a
use or occupancy other than that described in the application. If it is desired
to change to another conforming use or occupancy, a new application must be
submitted and approved.
   (F)   Before using any building or premises or part thereof hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or enlarged in use or structure, a
certificate of occupancy shall be obtained from the Enforcing Officer. Such
certificate shall show that such building or premises, or part thereof, and the
proposed use thereof conform with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1350, passed 7-2-07; Am. Ord. 1509, passed
8-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.204 FEES.
   Each applicant for a building permit at the time of application shall pay a
fee to the City Clerk according to the schedule of fees on file and available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1208, passed 4-15-03)
§ 155.205 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming uses
of land or buildings created by the passage of the ordinance codified in this
chapter. Application for such certificate of occupancy for nonconforming uses
shall be filed with the Enforcing Officer by the owner or lessee of the land or
building occupied by such nonconforming use within two years from the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. It shall be the duty of the
Enforcing Officer to issue a certificate of occupancy for nonconforming use.
   (B)   Any nonconforming use for which an occupancy permit has not been
obtained in conformity with the requirements of this chapter shall be presumed
to be operating in violation of this chapter and such use shall thereupon be
abated.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.206 ENFORCING OFFICER; OFFICE, SALARY , POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Office. There is created the office of Enforcing Officer who shall be
the Community Service Officer employed by the City of Fulton from time to time.
   (B)   Salary. The Enforcing Officer shall perform his/her duties at no
additional salary other than that of the Community Service Officer as annually
fixed by the City Council.
   (C)   Powers and duties. It is the duty of the Enforcing Officer to enforce
this chapter. It shall also be the duty of all officers and employees of the
city and especially of all members of the Police Department to assist the
Enforcing Officer.
   (D)   Vacancies. Should the Community Service Officer be temporarily vacant,
then the Mayor, by and with the consent and advice of the City Council, shall
have the power to make a appointment to fill the office of Enforcing Officer on
a temporary basis at a salary to be determined by the City Council. In such
case, the person holding the temporary appointment shall continue in the office
of Enforcing Officer until a Community Service Officer has been hired and
qualified.
(Ord. 552, passed - -62; Am. Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1509, passed 8-
4-14; Am. Ord. 1736, passed 6-10-24)
§ 155.207 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Appeal from the decision of the Enforcing Officer may be made to the Board
of Appeals as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -62; Am. Ord. 855, passed 10-7-86)
§ 155.208 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $150, or more than $750 for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1509, passed 8-4-14)
§ 155.209 REMEDY OF VIOLATION.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the City Attorney, in
addition to other applicable remedies under the Illinois Compiles Statutes, is
hereby authorized to institute an action to enjoin, or any other appropriate
action or proceeding to prevent such erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use.
(Ord. 1509, passed 8-4-14)
APPENDIX: ZONING MAP
[Click_here_to_view_map]
CHAPTER 156: FAIR HOUSING POLICY
Section
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Discrimination in real estate transactions prohibited
   
156.03   Complaint procedures
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with:
         (a)   A parent or other person having legal custody of such individual
or individuals; or
         (b)   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protection afforded by this chapter against discrimination on
the basis of familial status applies to any person who is pregnant or is in the
process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the
age of 18 years.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Any improved or unimproved real property, or part
thereof, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied, as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
   LEASE. Sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental) and includes any contract
to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing
loans, any person in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans
or guarantees as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying
loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by title to or
a security interest in real property, but shall not include any religious
institution or organization nor any charitable or educational organization
operated, supervised or controlled by a religious institution or organization.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN. Includes national origin and ancestors.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any real property or who holds legal or equitable title
to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property.
   PURCHASE. Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or SALESMAN. A person, whether licensed or not, who, for
or with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells, purchases,
exchanges, rents, or leases real property, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself or herself out as
engaged in these.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The sale, exchange, rental or lease of real
property and also includes the brokering or appraising of residential real
property and the making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
      (1)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling; or
      (2)   Secured by residential real estate.
   REAL PROPERTY. Buildings, structures, real estate, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, interest in real estate cooperatives, condominiums, and
hereditament, corporeal and incorporeal, or any interest therein.
   SALE. Any contract to sell, exchange or convey, transfer or assign legal or
equitable title to or beneficial interest in real property.
   SOLICITATION. Any conduct designed or intended to induce the owner of any
real property to sell, rent, exchange, convey, transfer or list for sale or
rental such real property.
(Ord. 1147, passed 12-5-00)
§ 156.02 DISCRIMINATION IN REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Discrimination prohibited. No owner, lessee, or sublessee of real
property, real estate broker or salesman, lender, financial institution,
advertiser, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall discriminate against any
person because of that person's race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
ancestry, age, marital status, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or
unfavorable discharge form military service with respect to any real estate
transaction.
   (B)   Enumeration of unfair housing practices. Any act of discrimination in
a real estate transaction shall be considered an unfair housing practice,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Refusal to engage in a real estate transaction with a person or
discriminate in making available such a transaction.
      (2)   Altering the terms, conditions or privileges of a real estate
transaction or in the furnishings of facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      (3)   Refusal to receive or failure to transmit a bona fide offer to
engage in a real estate transaction from a person.
      (4)   Refusal to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person.
      (5)   Representing to a person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental, or lease when in fact it is so available, or failure
to bring a property listing to his or her attention, or refusal to permit him
or her to inspect real property.
      (6)   Printing, circulating, posting, mailing, publishing or causing to
be published a written or oral statement, advertisement or sign, or using a
form of application for a real estate transaction, or making a record in
inquiry in connection with a prospective real estate transaction, which
expresses any limitation founded upon, or indicating, directly or indirectly an
intent to engage in unlawful discrimination.
      (7)   Offering, soliciting, accepting, using or retaining a listing of
real property with knowledge that unlawful discrimination or discrimination on
the basis of familial status in a real estate transaction is intended.
      (8)   Soliciting for sale, leasing, listing or purchasing any residential
real estate within the city on the grounds of loss of value due to the present
or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
age, sex, marital status, familial status or handicap.
      (9)   Distributing or causing to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in this city
to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective
changes in the race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, sex,
marital status, familial status or handicap of residents in the vicinity of the
property involved.
      (10)    Intentionally creating alarm, among residents of any community,
by transmitting communications in any manner, including a telephone call
whether or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any owner
of residential real estate in this city to sell or lease his or her property
because of any present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property
involved of any person or persons of any particular race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, familial status or
handicap.
      (11)    Discrimination or participating in discrimination in connection
with borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repairs or maintenance of any real property in
the city. For the purpose of this subsection, discrimination in lending shall
include:
         (a)   Refusal to make loans;
         (b)   Differentiation in the type of loans, including interest rates,
charges to buyer or seller, duration and amount of loan;
         (c)   Influencing appraisals in connection with loans; or
         (d)   Delaying processing loan applications.
(Ord. 1147, passed 12-5-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 156.03 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Assistance by city. The city shall act as a local source for
assistance and information for persons who have complaints related to unfair
housing practices.
   (B)   Information provided. The city shall provide assistance and
information to any such person, which shall include but is not limited to:
      (1)   The rights and remedies available to a person who has been
discriminated against by virtue of an unfair housing practice;
      (2)   The types of discrimination which are considered to be unfair
housing practices;
      (3)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of county, state, and
federal agencies where such person may file formal complaints; and
      (4)   Such other relevant information or assistance as the city may have
available to assist such person.
   (C)   Coordination. The City Council shall be responsible for coordination
and directing the city's fair housing procedures.
(Ord. 464, passed 5-9-94; Am. Ord. 1147, passed 12-5-00)
CHAPTER 157: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Applicability
   
157.03   Storm water management plans
   
157.04   Other pre-ordinance drainage conditions
   
157.05   General provisions
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to reduce or eliminate the hazards to the
public health and safety caused by excessive storm water runoff, reduce the
effects of soil erosion and sedimentation caused by development, reduce
economic losses to individuals and the community at large, enhance broader
social and economic objectives, and protect, conserve and promote the orderly
development of land and water resources. The provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed as additional requirements to standards required by other provisions
of the Code of Fulton and an applicant must comply with all other applicable
laws. In cases of conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 1679, passed 10-26-20)
§ 157.02 APPLICABILITY.
   A storm water management plan shall be required for any new residential
developments resulting in a gross aggregate impervious lot coverage of 50% or
more; new residential developments having two or more dwelling units; and for
any new commercial, industrial, institutional or utility developments. No final
subdivision plat shall be approved and no zoning certificates shall be issued
until and unless the storm water management plan has been reviewed and approved
by the City Council ("City Council") of the City of Fulton ("city").
(Ord. 1679, passed 10-26-20)
§ 157.03 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   The required storm water management plan shall identify means for
controlling the storm water runoff release rate (the rate of storm water runoff
released from dominant to servient land) from the development and providing
storage potential for the excess storm water runoff (where required). All
computations, plans and specifications related to the implementation of this
chapter must be prepared and sealed by a professional engineer, registered in
Illinois. The storm water management plan shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following information, unless specifically excluded by the Council:
   (A)   A topographic map of the project site and adjacent areas, of suitable
scale and contour interval, which shall define the location of streams, the
extent of floodplains and calculated high water elevations, the shoreline of
lakes, ponds, swamps and detention basins including their inflow and outflow
structures, if any.
   (B)   The location and flowline elevation of all existing sanitary, storm,
or combined sewers.
   (C)   Detailed determination of runoff anticipated for the entire project
site following development, indicating design volumes and rates of proposed
runoff for each portion of the watershed tributary to the storm drainage
system, the calculations used to determine said runoff volumes and rates and
restatement of the criteria which have been used by the project engineer
throughout his calculations.
   (D)   A layout of the proposed storm water management system including the
location and size of all drainage structures, storm sewers, channels and
channel sections, detention basins, and analyses regarding the effect said
improvements shall have upon the receiving channel and its high-water
elevation.
   (E)   The slope, type, and size of all existing and proposed storm sewers
and other waterways.
   (F)   For all storm water management facilities (which shall include any
structure designated to collect or store surface water), a plot or tabulation
of storage volumes, for the design capacity, with corresponding water surface
elevations and the facility outflow rates for those water surface elevations.
   (G)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan showing: All erosion and
sedimentation control measures necessary to meet the objectives of this chapter
and the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) throughout all
phases of construction and permanently after completion of development of the
site. Provisions for maintenance of temporary and permanent control facilities,
including easements. Identification of the person(s) or entity which shall have
legal and financial responsibility for maintenance of permanent, erosion
control structures and measures after development is completed, and such
identification and/or any subsequent changes thereto should be provided to the
Council. Provisions shall be made to revise this information, upon any change
in related ownership and/or cited responsibility.
   (H)   A reference elevation benchmark (which shall be a permanent, frost-
proof monument approved by the city) shall be established in the near vicinity
to the storm water management facility and shall be referenced on the plan.
(Ord. 1679, passed 10-26-20)
§ 157.04 OTHER PRE-ORDINANCE DRAINAGE CONDITIONS.
   Upon passage of this chapter, drainage conditions in residential, commercial
and industrial areas, in the city shall be considered established as existing
drainage conditions. Changes to these existing, drainage conditions, through
improvements, which have an adverse effect on adjoining or neighboring
properties, shall be considered as a violation of this chapter. The Zoning
Enforcing Officer shall have the authority to investigate such changes when
complaints are filed with the city. The Zoning Enforcing Officer shall require
that pre-ordinance drainage conditions be re-established.
(Ord. 1679, passed 10-26-20)
§ 157.05 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Council may require the applicant to post a performance security
instrument, as approved by the City Attorney, in an amount sufficient to ensure
the execution of the storm water management plan,
   (B)   Maintenance of storm water management facilities located on private
property shall be the responsibility of the owner(s) in that development and
the Council may require the applicant to execute a maintenance agreement.
   (C)   A fee of $100, plus $5 per acre over five acres, shall accompany the
submittal of each storm water management plan for review.
   (D)   The interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed
in favor of the city and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by the state statutes.
   (E)   Upon completion of the storm water management project, the developer's
engineer and the Mayor shall affix their signatures to a set of the storm water
management plans which has been annotated to show any approved changes made to
the plan during construction. This set of plans will constitute the final storm
water management plans for the project and will be used for future
determinations regarding maintenance needs.
   (F)   A professional engineer, hired by the developer, shall be responsible
for determining whether the storm water management plan is in conformance with
this chapter and the approved storm water management plan, and whether
development is proceeding in accordance with the approved storm water
management plan. Periodic inspection of the development site shall be made by
the developer's engineer to ensure compliance. All city employees or agents
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, and measurement, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   The city shall have the power to enforce this chapter and the approved
storm water management plan and specifications. If a violation is noted during
constructive activity, the city reserves the right to issue a stop work order
until the violation is corrected. No zoning certificate or building permit
shall be issued for improvements on any property which is found to be in
violation of this chapter or a storm water management plan until the violation
is corrected to the satisfaction of the Council.
   (H)   The city shall have the right to require an applicant or any person or
entity found to be in violation of this chapter to reimburse or pay to the city
any reasonable costs or expenses incurred by the city including engineer fees,
inspection costs and attorney fees. This provision shall be liberally
construed.
(Ord. 1679, passed 10-26-20)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   
II.   PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
   
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
   
IV.   STREET VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
   
V.   VARIANCES
   
VI.   FRANCHISES
   
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
903-     -89         contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Lyndon, Prophetstown and Fulton and the county
                     of Whiteside.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
907      9-5-89      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Lyndon, Prophetstown and Fulton and the county
                     of Whiteside.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
920      10-17-90    contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Lyndon, Prophetstown, Fulton, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
970      5-4-93      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
985      12-7-93     contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
993      3-1-94      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
994      4-5-94      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1010     9-6-94      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1017     12-6-94     contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1024     3-16-95     contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1034     7-11-95     contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1045     2-6-96      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1056     9-3-96      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1097     2-2-99      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1100     5-4-99      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1110     9-7-99      contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     being a portion of a larger Enterprise Zone encompassing
1204     2-18-03     contiguous portions of the cities of Sterling, Rock Falls,
                     Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown, Lyndon, Savanna and
                     Thomson, and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1215     6-17-03     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna and Thomson, and the counties of Whiteside
                     and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1224     10-21-03    Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson and Mt. Carroll, and the counties
                     of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1230     12-15-03    Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson and Mt. Carroll, and the counties
                     of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1276     3-7-05      Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1283     6-6-05      Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1288     8-15-05     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1296     11-21-05    Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1307     5-1-06      Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1317     8-21-06     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1331     12-4-06     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1334     1-15-07     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1351     7-16-07     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1356     9-17-07     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1364     1-7-08      Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1366     2-18-08     Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1384     12-15-08    Sterling, Rock Falls, Morrison, Fulton, Prophetstown,
                     Lyndon, Savanna, Thomson, and Mt. Carroll, and the
                     counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
1403     2-1-10      Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1406     4-19-10     Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1413     7-19-10     Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1465     10-1-12     Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1472     3-4-13      Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1477     4-15-13     Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1480     6-17-13     Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1486     8-5-13      Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1491     9-16-13     Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1496     11-18-13    Amending Ordinance No. 970.
1543     9-6-16      Establishing the Whiteside Carroll Enterprise Zone.
1689     10-25-21    Amending the Whiteside Carroll Enterprise Zone.
1700     5-23-22     Amending the Whiteside Carroll Enterprise Zone.
                     Establishing an Enterprise Zone, said Enterprise Zone
                     encompassing contiguous portions of the municipalities of
1735     5-13-24     Fulton, Lyndon, Milledgeville, Morrison, Mt. Carroll,
                     Prophetstown, Rock Falls, Savanna, Sterling, Tampico,
                     Thomson, and the counties of Whiteside and Carroll.
                    
 
TABLE II: PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
Publisher's Note: This Table has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1759,
adopted 4-28-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1022     3-16-95     Authorizing the sale of an item of personal property owned
                     by the city to Chewton Glenn Energy, Inc.
1132     4-20-00     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned property known
                     as 415 10th Avenue.
1153     1-22-01     Authorizing the purchase of parcel of real property for
                     $46,000.
1165     10-16-01    Directing the sale of three tracts of real estate owned by
                     the city.
1177     1-22-02     Authorizing the sale of two parcels of municipally owned
                     real property to Jeff Zajicek.
1178     2-19-02     Authorizing the sale of two parcels of municipally owned
                     real property to Jeff Zajicek.
1187     4-24-02     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real property
                     generally located at 827 Eighth Avenue.
1188     5-21-02     Authorizing the exchange of municipally owned real
                     property for privately owned real property.
1216     6-17-03     Authorizing the exchange of municipally owned real
                     property for privately owned real property.
1217     6-17-03     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
                     generally located at 22nd Avenue.
                     Authorizing the purchase of property recorded in the
1264     11-15-04    Whiteside County Recorder of Deeds as Document #13558-
                     2003.
1268     12-20-04    Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
                     generally located on 22nd Avenue.
1278     4-18-05     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
                     generally located on 22nd Avenue.
1292     9-19-05     Authorizing the transfer of certain real estate and
                     personal property to the city.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1302     1-16-06     generally located on the southwest corner of the
                     intersection of Industrial Road and 20th Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1303     2-6-06      generally located on 20th Avenue west of the intersection
                     of Industrial Road and 20th Avenue.
1308     5-1-06      Authorizing the sale of personal property owned by the
                     city.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1310     5-15-06     generally located at the corner of First Street and
                     Fifteenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1311     5-15-06     generally located south of Drives Park, north of the
                     business known as Riverside Custom Woodworking on 22nd
                     Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1320     9-5-06      generally located along Illinois Route 84 south of its
                     intersection with Sixteenth Avenue.
1322     9-18-06     Authorizing the purchase of property located at 1329 14th
                     Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1335     2-5-07      generally located northwest of the intersection of
                     Industrial Road and 22nd Avenue.
1344     5-7-07      Authorizing the transfer of Fulton Fire Protection
                     District of Whiteside County property to the city.
1345     5-7-07      Authorizing the transfer of city property to the Fulton
                     Fire Protection District.
1346     5-7-07      Authorizing the purchase of a certain parcel of real
                     property generally known as 208 10th Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1348     5-21-07     generally located westerly of the intersection of
                     Industrial Road and 22nd Avenue.
1355     9-17-07     Authorizing the purchase of a certain parcel of real
                     property for $27,404.
1367     3-3-08      Authorizing the sale of personal property owned by the
                     city.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1375     7-21-08     generally located northwest of the intersection of
                     Industrial Road and 22nd Avenue.
                     Authorizing the acceptance of ownership of a certain
1412     7-6-10      parcel of real property commonly known as 1009 First
                     Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of real estate owned by the city
1427     2-7-11      generally located between 4th and 5th Avenues west of 10th
                     Street.
                     Directing the sale of real estate owned by the city
1440     11-7-11     generally located on 22nd Avenue west of the intersection
                     of 22nd Avenue and 9th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1448     1-16-12     generally located on 22nd Avenue west of the intersection
                     of Industrial Road and 22nd Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate that
1455     6-4-12      is generally located between relocated 5th and 6th Avenues
                     and 9th and 10th Streets.
1464     9-24-12     Authorizing the sale of certain personal property.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1473     3-18-13     generally located between relocated 5th and 4th Avenues
                     and 9th and 10th Streets.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1474     3-18-13     generally located between relocated 5th and 4th Avenues
                     and 9th and 10th Streets.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate that
1475     4-1-13      is part of Lots 12, 13, and 14 in the Fulton Industrial
                     Development Subdivision.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate that
1478     6-3-13      is part of Lots 12, 13, and 14 in the Fulton Industrial
                     Development Subdivision.
1482     6-17-13     Authorizing the purchase of a certain parcel of real
                     property.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1485     7-15-13     containing 14 acres near the intersection of 31st Avenue
                     and Waller Road.
1488     9-3-13      Authorizing the acceptance of a gift of a certain parcel
                     of real property commonly known as 409 N. 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate that
1492     10-7-13     is generally located between relocated 5th and 4th Avenues
                     and 9th and 10th Streets.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate that
1493     10-21-13    is part of Lot 13 and Lot 14 in the Fulton Industrial
                     Development Subdivision.
                     Directing the sale of real estate owned by the city
1506     5-15-14     described as Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in Block 41 in West
                     Fraction.
1527     9-21-15     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
                     commonly known as 407 24th Avenue.
1536     2-16-16     Purchase agreement for the sale of city real estate to
                     Bear Capital, LLC.
                     Directing the sale of real estate owned by the city,
1538     4-4-16      described as Sub-lots 1 and 6, and the west half of Sub-
                     lot 15 of Block 5, Range 5 in the original town of Fulton.
1540     10-5-15     Authorizing the disposal of surplus personal property
                     owned by the city.
                     Authorizing the acquisition of a parcel of real property
1549     10-17-16    from Dale A. Ludvigsen, described as Lot 6, Block 10, West
                     Fraction in the City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1552     11-7-16     located along 4th Street and north of its intersection
                     with U.S. Route 30 to Eastern Iowa Propane, LTD.
1553     1-3-17      Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
                     consisting of approximately 2.191 acres, to Justin Thoms.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1576     10-2-17     described as Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 in Block 4 in West
                     Fractions, in the City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1580     12-11-17    described as Lots 7, 8, 9, and 10 in Block 4 in West
                     Fractions, in the City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1582     2-12-18     described as Lot 7, except the south 12 feet thereof, and
                     Lots 8, 9, and 10 in Block 4 in West Fractions, in the
                     City of Fulton.
                     Directing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1587     2-26-18     described as Sub-lots 1 and 6, and the west one half of
                     Sub-lot 5, Block 5, Range 5, City of Fulton.
1589     3-26-18     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
                     described as Sub-lot 6, Block 5, Range 5, City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1590     3-26-18     described as the west one half of Sub-lot 5, Block 5,
                     Range 5, City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1591     4-9-18      described as vacant land generally located south of 31st
                     Avenue, near its intersection with 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the exchange of municipally owned property for
1592     4-9-18      privately owned property between the City of Fulton and
                     Blecha Holdings LLC Series 1000 Fourth.
1593     4-23-18     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned surplus personal
                     property.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1597     5-29-18     described as all that part of Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8 lying
                     northerly of the right-of-way of State bond Issue Route
                     80, Block 46, Manufacturer s Addition, City of Fulton.
                     Directing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1598     5-29-18     described as Lot 6 and the south half of Lot 7, Block 15
                     West Fractions, west of Base Street, City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1603     7-23-18     described as Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 46, Manufacturer s
                     Addition, City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1604     7-23-18     described as Lot 6 and the south half of Lot 7, Block 15,
                     West Fractions, west of Base Street, City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1606     8- -18      located south of 31st Avenue near its intersection with
                     4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate
1612     11-26-18    described as part of Lot 7 and 8 in the subdivision along
                     the southerly border and north of Illinois Route 30, City
                     of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the purchase by donation of a certain parcel
1618     12-10-18    of real property, described as Lot 3 in Block 9 in Range
                     9, City of Fulton.
                     Directing the sale of real estate owned by the city and
1621     2-25-19     described as Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in Block 41 in West
                     Fraction, City of Fulton.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1625     4-8-19      described as Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in Block 41 in West
                     Fraction, City of Fulton.
1627     5-13-19     Authorizing the sale of certain surplus personal property
                     owned by the city.
1632     7-22-19     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
                     described as 505 9th Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1633     7-22-19     generally described as part of Lot 7 and 8 of the
                     subdivision along Progress Drive and east of 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1648     3-12-20     generally located south of 31st Avenue near its
                     intersection with 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1657     8-17-20     located in the city's Illinois Route 84 and 31st Avenue
                     Tax Increment Financing Redevelopment Project area.
1666     12-14-20    Authorizing the sale of certain surplus personal property
                     owned by the city.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1667     1-11-21     generally located at the intersection of 12th Avenue and
                     3rd Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1669     3-8-21      located in the city's Illinois Route 84 and 31st Avenue
                     Tax Increment Financing Redevelopment Project area.
                     Directing the sale of real estate owned by the city,
1687     8-24-21     generally described as Lot 1 and 10 in Block 5, West
                     Fractions.
1688     10-12-21    Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
                     located at the intersection of 4th Street and 10th Avenue.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1694     7-26-21     generally located south of 31st Avenue near its
                     intersection with 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1701     6-13-22     generally part of Lot 7 of the subdivision along Progress
                     Drive and east of 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1702     6-13-22     generally part of Lot 6 of the subdivision and
                     approximately 500 feet by 200 feet parcel along the east
                     side of 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1707     9-26-22     generally part of Lots 3, 4, 5(A), 5(B) and 6 of the
                     subdivision along Progress Drive and east of 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1715     2-27-23     generally part of Lots 6, 7 and 8 of the subdivision along
                     Progress Drive and east of 4th Street.
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally owned real estate,
1724     4-10-23     generally part of Lot 4 of the Fulton Industrial
                     Development No. 3 Subdivision along Progress Drive and
                     east of 4th Street.
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1019     3-7-95      Changing the name of a portion of the city street Circle
                     Drive to Melody Hills and Rose Lane.
                     Naming a new roadway Park Drive constructed from
1203     1-21-03     Thirteenth Street south of its intersection with Sixteenth
                     Avenue to Twenty-Second Avenue.
                    
 
TABLE IV: STREET VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
Publisher's Note: This Table has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 1762,
adopted 5-12-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
888      10-4-88     Establishing street and alley vacation requirements.
                     Dedicating Lot 6 of the South Half of Section 22, Township
936      6-4-91      22 North, Range 3 East of the 4th P.M., Whiteside County
                     for park use and establishing rules and regulations.
973      6-1-93      Vacating a portion of Fifteenth Avenue and a portion of an
                     alley in Block 15 and 16 of the original plat of the city.
1066     2-4-97      Vacating an alley between Fifth and Sixth Streets between
                     Second and Third Avenues.
1067     2-22-97     Vacating the east ten feet of Second Street, between
                     Fourteenth and Fifteenth Avenues.
                     Vacating a portion of Seventh Street and a portion of an
1131     5-2-00      alley lying between Lots 8 and 9 and 7 and 10 in Block 6,
                     Range 8 and west of Seventh Street.
1142     9-5-00      Vacating an alley in Block 2, Range 4 in the original plat
                     of the city.
1159     7-17-01     Vacating all that part of the alley between Twelfth Avenue
                     and Thirteenth Avenue and east of Fourteenth Street.
1160     7-17-01     Vacating a portion of Fourteenth Street south of Sixteenth
                     Avenue.
1197     10-15-02    Vacating Eleventh Street between Seventh Avenue and Sixth
                     Avenue.
1198     10-15-02    Vacating the northerly 50 feet of Sixth Avenue between
                     Eleventh Street and Twelfth Street.
1200     12-17-02    Vacating Second Avenue between Eighth Street and Ninth
                     Street and between Block 2 and Block 3 in Range 6.
1220     8-19-03     Adding Elston Road from Waller Road (Illinois Rt. 84) to
                     16th Avenue.
                     Dedicating a new roadway, constructed on real estate owned
1252     8-16-04     by the city and extending south from 16th Avenue to the
                     Public Works Building, as part of 14th Street.
1259     10-4-04     Vacating a portion of 5th Street.
1260     10-4-04     Vacating a portion of 1st Avenue.
1289     8-24-05     Vacating a portion of an alley in Block 5, Range 3.
1309     5-15-06     Vacating a portion of Block 11, West Fractions.
1313     6-5-06      Vacating a part of 6th Avenue and 5th Avenue.
1319     8-21-06     Vacating a portion of 14th Street.
1327     11-20-06    Vacating a portion of 17th Street and alley.
1338     4-2-07      Vacating a portion of 2nd Street, sometimes referred to as
                     1st Street.
1339     4-2-07      Vacating a portion of 2nd Street, sometimes referred to as
                     1st Street.
1340     4-2-07      Vacating a portion of 5th Street.
1352     7-16-07     Vacating a portion of 5th Street.
1428     3-21-11     Vacating a part of 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue.
                     Vacating a portion of an alley between Lots 1 and 2 on the
1432     5-16-11     west and Lots 9 and 10 on the east, Block 1, West
                     Fractions.
1453     5-21-12     Vacating an alley between Lot 1 and Lot 2 in Block 6,
                     Range 5.
1466     10-15-12    Vacating an alley between Lots 1, 4 and 5 and Lots 2, 3
                     and 6 in Block 12 in East Fractions.
                     Vacating a part of 4th Avenue between Lots 2 and 3 in
1483     7-1-13      Block 4 and Lots 1 and 4 in Block 5, Range 5 in the
                     original town.
1534     1-4-16      Vacating a portion of 18th Avenue north of Lots 5, 8 and 9
                     in Block 11 of Blake’s Addition.
1619     1-14-19     Vacating a portion of an alley between Lots 2 and 9, Block
                     9, West Fractions, City of Fulton.
1629     6-24-19     Vacating part of Second Avenue between Lot 1, Block 47,
                     West Fractions, and Lot 5, Block 48, West Fractions.
1630     7-22-19     Vacating part of Third Avenue between Lot 5, Block 47,
                     West Fractions and Lot 1, Block 46, West Fractions.
1668     2-22-21     Vacating part of Fifth Avenue south of Lots 2 and 3, Block
                     5, Range 5 in the original town.
                    
 
TABLE V: VARIANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing a variance with Bernice Buikema for a front
1127     12-20-99    yard setback in a Residential I Dwelling District at 618
                     19th Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Don Englekins for a front yard
1128     3-7-00      setback in a Residential I Dwelling District at 803 13th
                     Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Duane Zuidema for a front yard
1129     4-4-00      setback in a Residential I Dwelling District at 516 12th
                     Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Dorothy Hook for a side yard
1169     12-19-01    setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District on Ninth
                     Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Dale Schaver for a side yard
1171     1-22-02     setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 1002
                     Fourteenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Harry Bitler for a side yard
1173     1-22-02     setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 1218
                     Sixteenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Stephen R. Bailey for a side
1174     1-22-02     yard setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 920
                     Fifteenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Rodney Decker for a side yard
1175     1-22-02     setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 806 Eighth
                     Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with John Bennett for a fence
1176     1-22-02     height limit in an Industry District at 1001 Thirty-First
                     Avenue.
1181     3-19-02     Authorizing a variance with J. Darwin Olsen for a rear
                     yard setback in a Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
1189     6-18-02     Authorizing a variance with Leon and Donna Groh for a side
                     yard setback in a Multi-Family Dwelling District.
                     Authorizing a variance with First Christian Reformed
1193     7-16-02     Church for a front yard setback in a Single-Family
                     Dwelling District at 801 Fifteenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Chris and Maxine Wayne for a
1195     9-17-02     front yard setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at
                     817 Tenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Melissa Hill for a front yard
1196     9-17-02     setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 507
                     Twenty-Third Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with Andy Damhoff for a side yard
1211     5-20-03     setback in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 1118
                     Sixteenth Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance with David Wiersema for a garage
1214     6-17-03     addition in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 911 2nd
                     Avenue.
1218     7-15-03     Authorizing a variance with Kent Renkes for a garage in a
                     Single-Family Dwelling District at 4 North 8th Street.
                     Authorizing a variance with Kristian Kakavas for a privacy
1225     10-20-03    fence in a Single-Family Dwelling District at 519 19th
                     Avenue.
                     Approving the application of Willard Estilow, Jr. to grant
1246     7-20-04     a variance of the rear yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a garage.
                     Approving the application of Jennifer Hunter to grant a
1256     9-20-04     variance of the front yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a porch.
                     Approving the application of Craig Ware to grant a
1263     11-15-04    variance of the accessory building requirement to allow
                     construction of an accessory building.
                     Approving the application of Greg Lehman to grant a
1269     1-17-05     variance of the sideyard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a garage.
1270     2-21-05     Approving the application of Phil Schaver to grant a
                     variance to permit a garage.
                     Approving the application of Bob and Betty Snyder to grant
1284     6-20-05     a variance of the front yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a building addition.
                     Approving the application of James Lucke to grant a
1286     8-1-05      variance of the front and side yard corner lot fence
                     requirement to allow construction of a solid 6 foot fence.
                     Approving the application of Jimmy Carroll, Jr. to grant a
1297     11-21-05    variance of the front yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a deck.
                     Approving the application of Barbara M. Suehl to grant a
1315     7-17-06     variance to reduce the total lot area required for one-
                     family dwelling in a Single-family Dwelling District.
                     Approving the application of Charles Dykstra to grant a
1323     9-18-06     variance of the front yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a deck.
                     Approving the application of Monica Bly to grant a
1324     9-18-06     variance of the front yard setback and the side yard
                     setback requirements to allow construction of a deck.
                     Approving the application of Jason Snyder to grant a
1337     4-2-07      variance of the front yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a porch.
                     Approving the application of SMC Properties to grant a
1342     4-16-07     variance of the side yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a garage.
                     Approving the application of William Blecha to grant a
1353     8-6-07      variance of the side yard setback requirement to allow
                     construction of a garage.
                     Approving the application of William Blecha to grant a
1354     8-6-07      variance of the height restriction to allow construction
                     of a garage.
1363     1-7-08      Approving the application of Leonard and Barb Janis to
                     grant a variance of the 40% lot coverage limit.
                     Approving the application of Roger and Terri Merema to
1370     5-5-08      grant a variance of the square footage limit to allow
                     construction of a garage.
                     Authorizing a variance to A. Keith and Vicki Norman to
1386     3-16-09     allow the construction of a garage and that the garage be
                     156 square feet over the 960 foot limit.
                     Authorizing a variance to Matthew Terry to allow the
1393     8-3-09      construction of a 72 inch chain link fence in the east
                     side yard of a corner lot and to allow the front yard wood
                     fence to be one foot from the east side property line.
                     Authorizing a variance to David Keeney to allow the
1411     7-6-10      construction of a wood privacy fence and that the fence be
                     within 15 feet from the front property line.
                     Authorizing a variance to Jerry Ammon to allow the
1417     8-17-10     construction of a garage addition and that the garage
                     addition be within one feet, nine inches from the south
                     side property line.
                     Authorizing a variance to Derrick and Jui Hsian Apostolos
1418     8-16-10     to allow the construction of a four foot high 80% open
                     fence and that the fence be on the east property line.
                     Authorizing a variance to Scott Bielema to allow the
1430     4-4-11      construction of a house addition and that the addition be
                     within 15 feet from the front property line.
                     Authorizing a variance to Kenneth Tiesman to allow the
1431     5-16-11     construction of a garage and that the garage be 204 square
                     feet over the 960 square foot limit.
                     Authorizing a variance to Jessica L. Schmidt to allow the
1545     9-19-16     construction of a 48 inch wooden picket fence in the front
                     and side yard in a Multi-Family Dwelling District.
1550     10-17-16    Authorizing a variance to Eddie L. Wosoba to allow the
                     construction of a carport at 506 16th Avenue.
                     Authorizing a variance to Warren P. Juist to allow the
1575     10-26-17    construction of a garage with a one foot set back and not
                     a setback of five feet.
                     Authorizing a variance to Greg J. Zartmann and Debra D.
1607     8-27-18     Zartmann to allow the construction of a wooden deck on the
                     front of a residence.
                     Authorizing a variance to Blecha Holdings LLC, Series 1000
1608     8-27-18     Fourth, to allow the construction of an accessory building
                     without the construction of a residence or main building.
1610     - -         Authorizing a variance to Philip and Wendy Otten to allow
                     for the construction of an eight foot tall fence.
1655     7-27-20     Authorizing a variance to Robert J. Doty to allow the
                     construction of a 1,200 square foot garage.
                     Authorizing a variance to Justin R. Petersen and Skyler R.
1684     7-26-21     Petersen to allow the construction fo a 36-inch fence in
                     the front yard to extend beyond the front of the principal
                     building.
1717     3-27-23     Authorizing a variance to Jessica Noth to allow an
                     addition to the existing garage.
                    
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1134     5-2-00      Amending the electric ordinance franchise to include
                     provisions on tree trimming services.
1199     11-19-02    Renewing the cable franchise held by Mediacom Illinois for
                     a term of ten years.
1419     9-7-10      Agreement between Fulton and JoCarroll for natural gas
                     franchise.
1586     2-26-18     Addressing the payment of cable television franchise fees.
                    
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1168     12-18-01    Rezoning certain property for the city from a Single-
                     Family Dwelling District to an Industry District.
                     Rezoning certain property for J. Darwin Olsen from a
1180     3-19-02     Single-Family Dwelling District to a Multiple-Family
                     Dwelling District.
                     Rezoning certain property for Gary F. Milnes from a
1258     10-4-04     Single-Family Dwelling District to a Multi-Family Dwelling
                     District.
1271     2-21-05     Rezoning certain property for the city from a Single-
                     Family Dwelling District to an Industry District.
                     Rezoning certain property for the Clinton Area Development
1272     2-21-05     Corporation from a Single-Family Dwelling District to an
                     Industry District.
                     Rezoning certain property for Leonard F. Mitchell and
1273     2-21-05     Loretta Y. Mitchell from a Single-Family Dwelling District
                     to a Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
1394     9-8-09      Rezoning certain property from Single-Family Dwelling
                     District to Industry District.
1395     9-8-09      Rezoning certain property from a Single-Family Dwelling
                     District to an Industry District.
1526     7-6-15      Rezoning certain property from an Industry District to a
                     Business District.
1551     11-7-16     Rezoning property from a Business District to an
                     Industrial District.
1718     3-27-23     Rezoning property from Industry District to a Business
                     District.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                        Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02             30.21,
                                    30.22
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.    31.008
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15             31.008
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65             34.03
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 - 10-40  31.008
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10            34.03
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5             31.008
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5             31.008
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)          31.008
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)          31.008
Ch. 20, Act 3855                    54.01
Ch. 24, § 11-131-1                 33.08
Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9               33.07
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3               33.03
Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.     116.03
Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-7             115.01
Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-50            115.04
Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1             34.05
Ch. 50, Act 150                     34.04
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.     32.21
                                    51.086,
Ch. 65, Act 5                       92.084,
                                    92.088
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1- 2-1            151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8- 2-9 - 8-2-9.133.25,
                                    33.26
                                    33.03,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1            117.03,
                                    118.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2            118.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5            33.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6            33.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22           119.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-3            33.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11- 12-12         151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-19-1 et seq. 53.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2           151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8           151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2           151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-10.1        111.07
                                    33.71,
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq33.72,
                                    33.73
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2       33.70,
                                    33.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(a)      33.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(c)      33.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11- 74.4-5(d)     33.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d)(9)   33.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-6(e)      33.71
Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 9, 13        153.37
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105            55.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102           55.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)      55.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801           114.01
Ch. 225, Act 320, § 3(1)           51.045
Ch. 225, Act 345, §§ 1 et seq.    51.077
Ch. 225, Act 440                    152.09
Ch. 230                             113.07
Ch. 230, Act 15                     113.01
Ch. 230, Act 15, § 3               113.04
Ch. 230, Act 15, § 4               113.07
Ch. 230, Act 15, § 5               113.08
Ch. 230, Act 15, § 6               113.09
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.     112.90,
                                    112.91
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 65              112.92
Ch. 235, Act 5,§ 1-3.23            111.01
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6- 16(a-1)       130.14
Ch. 410, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
Ch. 410, Act 80                     34.01
Ch. 410, Act 82, § 10              120.11
Ch. 410, Act 705, §§ 1-1 et seq.  120.02,
                                    120.09
Ch. 410, Act 705, § 1-10           155.105
Ch. 410, Act 705, § 10-35          120.16
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 4                51.045
Ch. 415, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.     51.075,
                                    51.076
Ch. 415, Act 30, § 6               51.078
Ch. 425, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.     90.01
Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 1 et seq.     90.01
Ch. 505, Act 89, § 5               155.105
Ch. 510, Act 5                      94.13
Ch. 625, Act 5                      70.01,
                                    Ch. 72, Sch. XI
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1- 159.1          Ch. 72, Sch. VI
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 3- 616            Ch. 72, Sch. VI
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 et seq.  131.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 6-100 et seq.  73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6- 303           131.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-20.3          131.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-204.1         131.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501           131.05
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1301.2         Ch. 72, Sch. VI
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1426.1         73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-709            73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201         55.03
Ch. 720                             130.13
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 16-0.1 et seq. 131.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1             131.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.5           131.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1           131.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 36-1             131.05
Ch. 720, Act 550                    130.13,
                                    131.05
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4(a)           131.05
Ch. 720, Act 570                    131.05
Ch. 720, Act 600                    130.13
Ch. 720, Act 675, § 1              130.11
Ch. 720, Act 675, § 1.5            130.11
Ch. 720, Act 675, § 2              130.11
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3- 101 et seq. 131.14
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a), (b)     34.03
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2              151.08
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101            34.03
Ch. 820, Act 115, § 9.5            34.04
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1982 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1.08.010          11.01
1.12.010          11.02
1.16.010          11.03
1.20.010          11.04
1.20.020          11.04
2.04.010          30.01
2.04.020          30.02
2.04.030          30.05
2.04.040          30.03
2.04.050          30.04
2.04.060          30.06
2.08.010          30.20
2.08.020          30.21
2.08.030          30.22
2.08.040          30.23
2.08.050          30.24
2.08.060          30.25
2.08.070          30.26
2.08.080          30.27
2.08.090          30.28
2.08.100          30.29
2.08.110          30.30
2.08.120          30.31
2.12.010          31.025
2.12.020          31.026
2.12.030          31.027
2.12.040          31.028
2.12.050          31.029
2.12.060          31.030
2.12.070          31.031
2.12.080          31.032
2.12.090          31.033
2.12.100          31.034
2.12.110          31.035
2.16.010          31.050
2.16.020          31.051
2.16.030          31.052
2.16.040          31.053
2.16.050          31.054
2.16.060          31.055
2.16.070          31.056
2.16.080          31.057
2.20.010          31.070
2.20.020          31.071
2.20.030          31.073
2.20.040          31.072
2.20.050          31.074
2.22.010          31.090
2.22.020          31.091
2.22.030          31.092
2.24.010          32.01
2.24.030          32.02
2.24.080          32.03
2.28.010          32.15
2.28.020          32.16
2.28.030          32.16
2.28.040          32.18
2.28.050          32.19
2.28.060          32.17
2.28.070          32.20
2.36.010          32.61
2.36.020          32.60
2.36.030          32.61
2.36.040          32.61
2.36.050          32.62
2.40.010          32.76
2.40.020          32.75
2.40.030          32.76
2.40.040          32.76
2.44.010          31.001
2.44.020          31.002
2.44.030          31.003
2.44.040          31.003
2.44.050          31.004
2.44.060          31.005
2.44.070          31.006
2.44.090          31.009
2.44.100          31.010
2.44.110          31.011
2.48.010          31.013
2.48.020          31.013
2.52.010          31.014
2.52.020          31.014
2.52.030          31.014
2.52.040          31.014
2.52.050          31.014
2.56.010          31.015
3.04.010          33.01
3.08.010          33.02
3.08.020          33.02
3.08.030          33.02
3.12.010          33.03
3.12.020          33.03
3.12.030          33.03
3.12.040          33.03
3.16.010          33.04
3.16.020          33.04
3.16.030          33.04
3.20.010          33.05
3.28.010          33.06
3.32.010          33.07
3.32.020          33.07
3.32.040          33.07
3.32.050          33.07
3.40.010          33.08
3.40.020          33.08
3.40.030          33.08
3.44.010          33.09
5.02.010          110.30
5.02.020          110.31
5.02.030          110.32
5.02.040          110.33
5.02.050          110.34
5.02.060          110.35
5.02.070          110.36
5.02.080          110.37
5.02.090          110.38
5.02.100          110.39
5.02.110          110.40
5.02.120          110.41
5.02.130          110.42
5.02.140          110.43
5.02.150          110.44
5.02.160          110.45
5.04.020          111.02
5.04.030          111.03
5.04.040          110.12,
                  111.04
5.04.050          110.12,
                  111.05
5.04.060          110.12,
                  111.06
5.04.070          110.12,
                  111.07
5.04.080          110.12
5.04.080          111.08
5.04.090          110.12,
                  111.09
5.04.100          110.12,
                  111.10
5.04.110          110.12,
                  111.11
5.04.120          110.12,
                  111.12
5.04.130          110.12,
                  111.13
5.04.140          111.14
5.06.010          112.01
5.06.020          112.02
5.06.030          112.03
5.06.040          112.04
5.06.080          112.05
5.06.090          112.06
5.06.100          112.07
5.06.110          112.08
5.08.010          112.20
5.08.030          112.21
5.10.010          112.35
5.10.020          112.36
5.12.010          112.45
5.12.020          112.46
5.14.010          112.60
5.14.020          112.61
5.14.030          112.62
5.16.010          112.75
5.16.020          112.76
5.16.030          112.77
5.16.040          112.78
5.18.010          110.01
5.18.020          110.01
5.18.030          110.01
5.18.040          110.01
5.18.050          110.01
5.18.060          110.01
5.20.010          110.02
5.20.020          110.02
5.20.030          110.02
5.22.010          110.03
5.22.020          110.03
5.22.030          110.03
5.22.040          110.03
5.22.050          110.03
5.24.010          110.04
5.24.020          110.04
5.24.030          110.04
5.24.040          110.04
5.26.010          110.05
5.26.020          110.05
5.26.030          110.05
5.26.040          110.05
5.28.010          110.06
5.28.020          110.06
5.28.030          110.06,
                  110.11
5.28.040          110.11
5.30.010          110.07
5.30.020          110.07
5.30.030          110.07
5.30.040          110.07
5.32.010          110.08
5.32.020          110.08
5.32.030          110.08
5.32.040          110.08
5.34.010          110.09
5.34.020          110.09
5.34.030          110.09
5.34.040          110.09
5.34.050          110.09
5.34.060          110.09
5.36.010          110.10
5.36.020          110.10
5.36.030          110.10
5.36.040          110.10
5.38.010          110.11
5.38.020          110.11
5.40.010          110.12
5.40.020          110.12
5.40.030          110.12
5.42.010          110.13
5.42.020          110.13
5.42.030          110.13
5.44.010          110.14
5.44.020          110.14
5.46.010          110.15
5.46.020          110.15
5.46.030          110.15
5.46.040          110.15
5.50.020          113.02
5.50.020          113.99
5.50.040          113.04
5.50.050          113.05
5.50.080          113.09
5.50.090          113.06
5.50.100          113.10
5.50.110          113.11
6.04.010          94.01
6.04.020          94.02
6.04.030          94.03
6.04.040          94.04
6.04.050          94.61
6.04.060          94.62
6.04.070          94.05
6.04.090          94.06
6.08.010          94.07
6.08.020          94.07
6.12.010          94.08
6.12.020          94.08
6.12.030          94.07
6.16.010          94.25
6.16.020          94.26
6.16.030          94.27
6.16.040          94.28
6.16.050          94.29
6.20.010          94.09
6.20.020          94.10
6.20.030          94.60
6.20.040          94.11
6.20.050          94.12
8.04.010          91.15
8.04.020          91.16
8.04.030          91.17
8.04.040          91.18
8.04.050          91.19
8.04.060          91.20
8.04.070          91.21
8.08.010          91.01
8.08.020          91.01
8.12.010          91.35
8.12.020          91.36
8.12.030          91.37
8.12.040          91.38
8.20.010          90.20
8.20.020          90.21
8.20.030          90.22
8.20.040          90.23
8.24.010          90.01
8.24.020          90.02
8.24.030          90.03
8.24.040          90.04
8.28.010          91.02
8.28.020          91.02
8.28.030          91.02
8.32.010          93.20
8.32.020          93.21
8.32.030          93.22
8.32.040          93.23
8.32.050          93.24
8.36.010          92.165
8.36.020          92.166
8.36.030          92.167
8.36.040          92.167
8.36.050          92.167
8.36.060          92.168
8.36.070          92.169
8.60.010          91.03
8.60.020          91.03
8.60.030          91.03
9.02.010          130.01
9.02.020          130.01
9.04.010          130.02
9.10.010          130.25
9.10.020          130.26
9.10.030          130.27
9.12.010          130.03
9.22.010          130.35
9.22.020          130.36
9.22.030          130.37
9.28.010          130.45
9.28.020          130.46
9.28.030          130.47
9.30.010          130.04
9.34.010          130.05
9.40.010          130.06
9.44.010          130.65
9.44.020          130.66
9.44.030          130.67
9.50.010          130.07
9.50.020          130.07
9.50.030          130.07
9.50.040          130.07
9.50.050          130.07
9.50.060          130.07
9.56.010          130.08
9.56.020          130.08
9.62.010          130.09
9.62.020          130.09
9.62.030          130.09
10.12.110         70.02
10.12.170         70.04
10.12.200         70.03
10.20.010         Ch. 71, Sch. III
10.20.020         Ch. 71, Sch. III
10.20.030         Ch. 71, Sch. III
10.20.040         Ch. 71, Sch. III
10.24.150         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.060         Ch. 72, Sch. I
10.24.070         Ch. 72, Sch. II
10.24.080         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.090         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.100         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.110         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.120         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.130         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.24.140         Ch. 72, Sch. III
10.28.010         70.05
10.28.020         Ch. 72, Sch. X
10.28.030         70.05
10.28.040         70.05
10.28.050         70.05
10.40.010         95.01
10.40.020         95.02
10.40.030         95.03
10.40.040         95.04
10.40.050         95.05
10.40.060         95.06
10.40.070         95.07
10.40.080         95.08
10.40.090         95.09
10.40.100         95.09
10.40.110         95.09
10.40.120         95.10
10.40.130         95.11
10.52.010         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.020         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.030         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.040         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.050         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.055         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.060         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.070         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.080         Ch. 71, Sch. I
10.52.090         Ch. 71, Sch. I
12.04.010         92.025
12.04.020         92.026
12.04.030         92.026
12.04.040         92.027
12.04.050         92.028
12.04.060         92.029
12.04.070         92.030
12.04.080         92.030
12.06.010         92.045
12.06.020         92.046
12.06.030         92.047
12.06.040         92.048
12.06.050         92.049
12.06.060         92.050
12.06.070         92.051
12.06.080         92.052
12.06.090         92.053
12.06.100         92.054
12.06.110         92.055
12.06.120         92.056
12.06.130         92.057
12.06.140         92.057
12.06.150         92.057
12.06.160         92.058
12.06.170         92.059
12.06.180         92.999
12.08.010         92.01
12.08.020         92.01
12.12.010         92.075
12.12.020         92.076
12.12.030         92.077
12.12.040         92.078
12.16.010         92.090
12.16.020         92.091
12.20.010         92.105
12.20.020         92.106
12.20.030         92.107
12.24.010         93.01
12.24.020         93.02
12.24.030         93.03
12.24.040         93.04
12.24.050         93.05
12.24.060         93.06
12.28.010         92.120
12.28.020         92.121
12.28.030         92.122
12.28.040         92.123
12.32.010         92.135
12.32.020         92.136
12.32.030         92.137
12.36.010         96.01
12.36.020         96.02
12.36.030         96.03
12.36.040         96.30
12.36.050         96.31
12.36.060         96.32
12.36.070         96.33
12.36.080         96.34
12.36.090         96.35
12.36.100         96.36
12.36.110         96.37
12.36.120         96.38
12.36.130         96.39
12.36.140         96.15
12.36.150         96.04
12.36.160         96.17
12.36.170         96.16
12.36.180         96.18
12.36.190         96.19
12.40.010         153.01
12.40.020         153.15
12.40.030         153.16
12.40.040         153.17
12.40.050         153.18
12.40.060         153.30
12.40.070         153.31
12.40.080         153.32
12.40.090         153.33
12.40.100         153.34
12.40.110         153.35
12.40.120         153.36
12.40.130         153.37
12.40.140         153.38
12.40.150         153.39
12.40.160         153.02
12.44.010         92.001
12.44.020         92.002
12.44.030         92.003
12.44.040         92.004
12.44.050         92.005
12.44.060         92.006
12.44.070         92.007
12.44.080         92.008
12.44.090         92.009
12.44.100         92.010
12.48.010         92.012
12.48.020         92.999
13.04.010         50.01
13.04.020         50.02
13.04.030         50.03
15.04.010         150.01
15.04.020         150.02
15.04.030         150.03
15.04.040         150.04
15.04.050         150.05
15.04.060         150.06
15.04.070         150.07
15.04.080         150.08
15.08.010         150.20
15.08.020         150.21
15.08.030         150.22
15.08.040         150.23
15.12.010         150.35
15.12.020         150.36
15.12.030         150.37
15.12.040         150.38
15.12.050         150.39
15.16.010         150.50
15.16.020         150.51
15.20.010         150.65
15.20.020         150.66
15.20.030         150.67
16.04.010         154.001
16.04.020         154.002
16.04.030         154.003
16.04.040         154.004
16.04.050         154.005
16.04.060         154.005
16.08.010         154.020
16.08.020         154.021
16.08.030         154.022
16.08.040         154.023
16.08.050         154.024
16.08.060         154.025
16.12.010         154.035
16.12.020         154.036
16.12.030         154.037
16.12.040         154.038
16.12.050         154.039
16.16.010         154.050
16.20.010         154.006
16.24.010         154.060
16.24.020         154.061
16.24.030         154.062
16.24.040         154.063
16.24.050         154.064
16.24.060         154.065
16.24.070         154.066
16.24.080         154.067
16.28.010         154.080
16.28.020         154.081
16.28.030         154.082
16.28.040         154.083
16.28.050         154.084
16.28.060         154.085
16.28.070         154.086
16.28.080         154.087
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
455      - -51       33.04
469      - -53       31.014
477      - -55       50.01,
                     50.02
493      - -57       91.01
509      - -59       94.26 -
                     94.29
510      - -59       11.04
                     153.01,
                     153.02,
515      - -59       153.15 -
                     153.18,
                     153.30 -
                     153.39
516      - -60       Ch. 72, Schs. I,
                     II
533      - -61       153.39
538      - -61       93.20 -
                     93.24
        - -62       155.207
                     155.015 -
                     155.019,
                     155.035,
                     155.036 -
                     155.038,
                     155.050 -
                     155.058,
                     155.070 -
                     155.075,
                     155.085 -
552      - -62       155.093,
                     155.105,
                     155.107,
                     155.120,
                     155.131,
                     155.134,
                     155.165 -
                     155.173,
                     155.200,
                     155.201,
                     155.205,
                     155.206
564      - -63       130.08
566      - -64       92.01
573      - -64       150.04
591      - -66       94.29
592      - -66       Ch. 71, Sch. II
604      - -67       Ch. 71, Sch. III
606      - -67       Ch. 72, Sch. III
616      - -67       92.01
        - -68       Ch. 72, Sch. III
618      - -68       153.36
628      - -69       153.17
                     96.01 -
                     96.04,
630      - -69       96.15 -
                     96.19,
                     96.30 -
                     96.39
632      - -69       33.03
633      - -69       33.07
635      - -69       33.06
634      - -71       Ch. 72, Sch. III
647      - -71       95.01 -
                     95.11
                     154.001 -
                     154.006,
                     154.020 -
                     154.025,
                     154.035 -
649      - -72       154.039,
                     154.050,
                     154.060 -
                     154.067,
                     154.080 -
                     154.087
653      - -62       155.202
                     Ch. 72, Sch. III;
655      - -73       92.090,
                     92.091
677      - -74       33.02
                     94.01 -
685      - -75       94.04,
                     94.61,
                     94.62
687      - -75       92.010
702      - -76       33.08
703      - -76       31.013
712      - -77       112.36
717      - -77       Ch. 72, Sch. III
724      - -78       112.36
728      - -78       92.01
731      - -78       92.075
737      - -79       91.03
741      - -79       33.09
742      - -79       70.05;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. X
                     110.03,
                     110.06,
                     110.09,
        - -80       110.10,
                     110.15,
                     110.44,
                     112.05,
                     112.60
744      - -80       155.022
749      - -80       92.012,
                     92.999
                     92.045 -
751      - -80       92.059,
                     92.999
754      - -82       Ch. 71, Sch. II
755      - -81       112.04
763      - -81       Ch. 71, Sch. I
777      - -82       Ch. 72, Sch. II
778      - -82       Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     94.01 -
                     94.12,
785      - -82       94.26 -
                     94.29,
                     94.60 -
                     94.62
                     130.01 -
                     130.09,
                     130.25 -
786      - -82       130.27,
                     130.35,
                     130.45 -
                     130.47
821      - -84       Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     155.001,
                     155.016 -
                     155.022,
                     155.035 -
                     155.038,
                     155.050 -
                     155.058,
                     155.070 -
                     155.075,
                     155.085 -
                     155.093,
855      10-7-86     155.105 -
                     155.107,
                     155.120,
                     155.130,
                     155.131,
                     155.134,
                     155.145 -
                     155.152,
                     155.165 -
                     155.173,
                     155.200 -
                     155.207
882      7-5-88      111.07,
                     111.10
883      7-5-88      130.07
885      10-7-86     155.015
888      10-4-88     T.S.O. IV
889      10-4-88     155.001,
                     155.135
890      10-4-88     Ch. 71, Sch. I
894      12-6-88     92.075 -
                     92.078
895      - -         33.25 -
                     33.29
896      4-4-89      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
897      4-4-89      31.056
899      4-4-89      31.012
903      - -89       T.S.O. I
905      8-1-89      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
906      8-18-89     Ch. 71, Sch. IV
907      9-5-89      T.S.O. I
908      10-4-89     Ch. 72, Sch. VII
909      11-8-89     110.01
912      3-6-90      31.050
920      10-17-90    T.S.O. I
933      5-7-91      10.19
936      6-4-91      T.S.O. IV
937      6-5-91      Ch. 72, Sch. VI
964      8-4-92      Ch. 72, Sch. VI
969      5-4-93      Ch. 71, Sch. V
970      5-4-93      T.S.O. I
973      6-1-93      T.S.O. IV
                     91.50 -
976      7-6-93      91.54,
                     91.99
977      7-6-93      32.02,
                     32.03
982      10-5-93     Ch. 71, Sch. III
985      12-7-93     T.S.O. I
988      2-1-94      70.01
                     92.150 -
989A     2-1-94      92.152,
                     92.999
993      3-1-94      T.S.O. I
994      4-5-94      T.S.O. I
464      5-9-94      156.03
                     114.01,
                     114.10 -
                     114.19,
                     114.30,
                     114.40,
1001     - -94       114.50 -
                     114.53,
                     114.65 -
                     114.67,
                     114.80,
                     114.81
1003     - -         94.26
1004     - -94       Ch. 71, Sch. III
1010     9-6-94      T.S.O. I
1017     12-6-94     T.S.O. I
1019     3-7-95      T.S.O. III
1020     3-8-95      70.99;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
1022     3-16-95     T.S.O. II
1024     3-16-95     T.S.O. I
1034     7-11-95     T.S.O. I
1037     10-3-95     Ch. 72, Sch. VIII
1045     2-6-96      T.S.O. I
1048     6-4-96      111.15
1049     6-4-96      130.04
1050     6-4-96      111.11
1052-A   7-2-96      Ch. 72, Sch. VI
1055     9-3-96      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
1056     9-3-96      T.S.O. I
1057     10-1-96     91.51
1062     11-5-96     Ch. 72, Sch. VIII
1064     12-3-96     93.07
1066     2-4-97      T.S.O. IV
1067     2-22-97     T.S.O. IV
1068     3-4-97      Ch. 71, Sch. III
1072     - -         111.09
1075     8-5-97      Ch. 72, Sch. V
1076     10-7-97     30.21
1077     10-7-97     Ch. 71, Sch. IV
1078     10-8-97     115.01 -
                     115.11
1080     12-2-97     Ch. 72, Sch. IX
1089     9-1-98      94.40 -
                     94.43
1094     11-3-98     155.016
1095     11-3-98     155.001
1097     2-2-99      T.S.O. I
1100     5-4-99      T.S.O. I
1103     6-2-99      31.008
1105     8-4-99      Ch. 71, Sch. II
1106     9-7-99      111.07
1108     9-7-99      Ch. 71, Sch. II
1110     9-7-99      T.S.O. I
1112     10-6-99     31.008
1117     12-7-99     111.07
                     50.04,
1119     1-20-99     51.065,
                     52.108,
                     53.13
                     53.01 -
1120     12-20-99    53.12,
                     53.99
                     52.001 -
                     52.004,
                     52.015 -
                     52.019,
                     52.030 -
                     52.035,
                     52.050 -
                     52.058,
                     52.070 -
1121     12-20-99    52.078,
                     52.090,
                     52.091,
                     52.105 -
                     52.108,
                     52.120 -
                     52.124,
                     52.135 -
                     52.139,
                     52.998
                     51.001 -
                     51.007,
                     51.020 -
                     51.027,
1122     12-20-99    51.040 -
                     51.051,
                     51.065 -
                     51.070,
                     51.085 -
                     51.088
1127     12-20-99    T.S.O. V
1125     3-7-00      130.04
1126     3-7-00      130.04
1128     3-7-00      T.S.O. V
1129     4-4-00      T.S.O. V
1130     - -00       130.10
1131     5-2-00      T.S.O. IV
1132     4-20-00     T.S.O. II
1134     5-2-00      T.S.O. VI
1135     6-6-00      130.13
                     51.020,
                     51.025,
1137     8-7-00      51.067,
                     51.075 -
                     51.080
1138     8-7-00      52.074,
                     52.106
                     50.04,
1139     8-7-00      51.065,
                     51.089
1140     8-7-00      155.185 -
                     155.190
1141     8-7-00      155.137,
                     155.150
1142     9-5-00      T.S.O. IV
1144     11-7-00     155.001,
                     155.136
1145     11-7-00     51.028,
                     52.109
1146     11-7-00     11.03
1147     12-5-00     156.01 -
                     156.03
1149     12-5-00     130.12
1151     1-2-01      33.40 -
                     33.56
                     155.001,
1152     1-2-01      155.136,
                     155.137
1153     1-22-01     T.S.O. II
1154     3-6-01      30.21
1155     - -01       130.99
1156     3-6-01      34.01
1159     7-17-01     T.S.O. IV
1160     7-17-01     T.S.O. IV
1161     6-19-01     10.20
1162     6-19-01     51.067
1164     10-16-01    70.07
1165     10-16-01    T.S.O. II
1168     12-18-01    T.S.O. VII
1169     12-18-01    T.S.O. V
1171     1-22-02     T.S.O. V
1173     1-22-02     T.S.O. V
1174     1-22-02     T.S.O. V
1175     1-22-02     T.S.O. V
1176     1-22-02     T.S.O. V
1177     1-22-02     T.S.O. II
1178     2-19-02     T.S.O. II
1179     2-19-02     111.13
1180     3-19-02     T.S.O. VII
1181     3-19-02     T.S.O. V
1182     3-19-02     152.01 -
                     152.09
1183     4-16-02     Ch. 72, Sch. XI
1185     4-16-02     113.05
1186     4-16-02     155.130,
                     155.138
1187     4-24-02     T.S.O. II
1188     5-21-02     T.S.O. II
1189     6-18-02     T.S.O. V
1191     8-20-02     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1192     7-16-02     113.05
1193     7-16-02     T.S.O. V
1194     9-5-02      155.105,
                     155.139
1195     9-17-02     T.S.O. V
1196     9-17-02     T.S.O. V
1197     10-15-02    T.S.O. IV
1198     10-15-02    T.S.O. IV
1199     11-19-02    T.S.O. VI
1200     12-17-02    T.S.O. IV
1203     1-21-03     T.S.O. III
1204     2-18-03     T.S.O. I
1206     4-15-03     111.16
1207     4-15-03     92.075 -
                     92.088
1208     4-15-03     155.204
1209     4-15-03     50.04,
                     51.065
1211     5-20-03     T.S.O. V
1212     5-20-03     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1213     5-20-03     70.08
1214     6-17-03     T.S.O. V
1215     6-17-03     T.S.O. I
1216     6-17-03     T.S.O. II
1217     6-17-03     T.S.O. II
1218     7-15-03     T.S.O. V
                     155.001,
1219     7-15-03     155.058,
                     155.076,
                     155.093
1220     8-19-03     T.S.O. IV
1221     8-19-03     Adopting Ordinance
                     53.03,
1223     8-19-03     53.05,
                     53.13
1224     10-21-03    T.S.O. I
1225     10-20-03    T.S.O. V
1229     12-1-03     155.130,
                     155.138
1230     12-15-03    T.S.O. I
1232     1-5-04      Ch. 71, Sch. I
1233     2-18-04     30.21
1235     3-15-04     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1237     5-3-04      33.70 -
                     33.73
1239     5-17-04     31.008
1239     5-17-04     31.008
1240     6-21-04     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1242     7-6-04      30.21
1246     7-20-04     T.S.O. V
1251     8-16-04     Ch. 72, Sch. II
1252     8-16-04     T.S.O. IV
1253     9-7-04      155.106
1254     9-7-04      Adopting Ordinance
1256     9-20-04     T.S.O. V
1257     9-20-04     116.01 -
                     116.05
1258     10-4-04     T.S.O. VII
1259     10-4-04     T.S.O. IV
1260     10-4-04     T.S.O. IV
1262     11-15-04    Ch. 72, Sch. III
1263     11-15-04    T.S.O. V
1264     11-15-04    T.S.O. II
1268     12-20-04    T.S.O. II
1269     1-17-05     T.S.O. V
1270     2-21-05     T.S.O. V
1271     2-21-05     T.S.O. VII
1272     2-21-05     T.S.O. VII
1273     2-21-05     T.S.O. VII
1275     3-7-05      31.110 -
                     31.115
1276     3-7-05      T.S.O. I
1278     4-18-05     T.S.O. II
1279     5-2-05      50.04,
                     51.065
1280     6-6-05      155.001,
                     155.140
1281     6-6-05      155.018
1282     6-6-05      92.160
1283     6-6-05      T.S.O. I
1284     6-20-05     T.S.O. V
1286     8-1-05      T.S.O. V
1288     8-15-05     T.S.O. I
1289     8-24-05     T.S.O. IV
1290     9-6-05      155.174
1292     9-19-05     T.S.O. II
1293     10-17-05    116.03,
                     116.04
1295     11-7-05     Ch. 71, Sch. III;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1296     11-21-05    T.S.O. I
1297     11-21-05    T.S.O. V
1298     12-5-05     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1302     1-16-06     T.S.O. II
1303     2-6-06      T.S.O. II
1304     3-6-06      Ch. 72, Sch. III
                     94.01,
1305     3-6-06      94.13,
                     94.30
1307     5-1-06      T.S.O. I
1308     5-1-06      T.S.O. II
1309     5-15-06     T.S.O. IV
1310     5-15-06     T.S.O. II
1311     5-15-06     T.S.O. II
1313     6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
                     155.001,
1314     7-17-06     155.105,
                     155.120,
                     155.139
1315     7-17-06     T.S.O. V
1317     8-21-06     T.S.O. I
1318     8-21-06     Ch. 72, Sch. XII
1319     8-21-06     T.S.O. IV
1320     9-5-06      T.S.O. II
1321     9-5-06      155.138
1322     9-18-06     T.S.O. II
1323     9-18-06     T.S.O. V
1324     9-18-06     T.S.O. V
1325     10-16-06    51.008
1327     11-20-06    T.S.O. IV
1331     12-4-06     T.S.O. I
1333     1-15-07     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
1334     1-15-07     T.S.O. I
1335     2-5-07      T.S.O. II
1336     3-19-07     155.139
1337     4-2-07      T.S.O. V
1338     4-2-07      T.S.O. IV
1339     4-2-07      T.S.O. IV
1340     4-2-07      T.S.O. IV
1342     4-16-07     T.S.O. V
1343     4-16-07     53.03,
                     53.06
1344     5-7-07      T.S.O. II
1345     5-7-07      T.S.O. II
1346     5-7-07      T.S.O. II
1348     5-21-07     T.S.O. II
1350     7-2-07      155.203
1351     7-16-07     T.S.O. I
1352     7-16-07     T.S.O. IV
1353     8-6-07      T.S.O. V
1354     8-6-07      T.S.O. V
1355     9-17-07     T.S.O. II
1356     9-17-07     T.S.O. I
1357     10-15-07    130.55 -
                     130.59
1358     10-15-07    Adopting Ordinance
1359     11-19-07    Ch. 72, Sch. III
1363     1-7-08      T.S.O. V
1364     1-7-08      T.S.O. I
1365     1-21-08     70.06
1366     2-18-08     T.S.O. I
1367     3-3-08      T.S.O. II
                     Ch. 72, Schs.
                     I,
                     II,
1368     4-7-08      XIII,
                     91.99,
                     94.99,
                     130.99
1369     5-5-08      50.04
1370     5-5-08      T.S.O. V
1371     5-19-08     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
1373     6-2-08      53.06
1375     7-21-08     T.S.O. II
1379     11-17-08    53.13
1383     12-1-08     53.06
1384     12-15-08    T.S.O. I
1385     2-16-09     130.75 -
                     130.78
1386     3-16-09     T.S.O. V
1387     4-6-09      51.065
1389     4-20-09     155.201
1390     6-1-09      Adopting Ordinance
1392     7-20-09     111.16
1393     8-3-09      T.S.O. V
1394     9-8-09      T.S.O. VII
1395     9-8-09      T.S.O. VII
1396     9-8-09      111.16
                     113.01,
                     113.03,
1397     9-8-09      113.04,
                     113.06 -
                     113.09
                     117.01 -
1401     1-18-10     117.07,
                     117.99
1402     1-18-10     118.01
1403     2-1-10      T.S.O. I
1404     2-1-10      34.02
1405     4-5-10      51.065
1406     4-19-10     T.S.O. I
1407     4-19-10     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1408     4-19-10     130.78
1409     5-3-10      111.07,
                     111.09
1411     7-6-10      T.S.O. V
1412     7-6-10      T.S.O. II
1413     7-19-10     T.S.O. I
1416     8-16-10     Ch. 71, Sch. V
1417     8-17-10     T.S.O. V
1418     8-16-10     T.S.O. V
1419     9-7-10      T.S.O. VI
1423     12-6-10     33.10,
                     33.11
1424     1-17-11     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
                     151.01 -
1425     1-17-11     151.13,
                     151.99
1426     2-7-11      54.01 -
                     54.06
1427     2-7-11      T.S.O. II
1428     3-21-11     T.S.O. IV
1430     4-4-11      T.S.O. V
1431     5-16-11     T.S.O. V
1432     5-16-11     T.S.O. IV
1434     7-5-11      111.16
1435     9-6-11      91.02
1436     9-6-11      111.17
1437     10-3-11     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1440     11-7-11     T.S.O. II
1448     1-16-12     T.S.O. II
1449     4-16-12     51.065
1452     5-21-12     32.21
1453     5-21-12     T.S.O. IV
1454     6-4-12      92.031
1455     6-4-12      T.S.O. II
1456     6-4-12      112.90 -
                     112.102
1459     7-2-12      92.160
1461     8-27-12     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1462     9-4-12      Ch. 71, Sch. III
1463     9-4-12      155.138
1464     9-24-12     T.S.O. II
1465     10-1-12     T.S.O. I
1466     10-15-12    T.S.O. IV
1472     3-4-13      T.S.O. I
1473     3-18-13     T.S.O. II
1474     3-18-13     T.S.O. II
1475     4-1-13      T.S.O. II
1477     4-15-13     T.S.O. I
1478     6-3-13      T.S.O. II
1480     6-17-13     T.S.O. I
1482     6-17-13     T.S.O. II
1483     7-1-13      T.S.O. IV
1485     7-15-13     T.S.O. II
1486     8-5-13      T.S.O. I
1488     9-3-13      T.S.O. II
1489     9-3-13      70.09
1490     9-3-12      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
1491     9-16-13     T.S.O. I
1492     10-7-13     T.S.O. II
1493     10-21-13    T.S.O. II
1494     10-21-13    130.85,
                     130.99
1495     11-4-13     130.14
1496     11-18-13    T.S.O. I
1497     12-2-13     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1501     3-17-14     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1503     5-5-14      70.01
1504     5-5-14      130.13
1505     5-5-14      131.01 -
                     131.16
1506     5-15-14     T.S.O. II
                     155.201,
                     155.203,
1509     8-4-14      155.206,
                     155.208,
                     155.209
1510     8-4-14      154.001
                     96.02,
1511     8-18-14     96.33,
                     96.40
1512     10-6-14     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
1513     10-20-14    33.70,
                     33.71
1521     1-19-15     30.29
1522     3-16-15     50.04,
                     51.065
1524     5-18-15     111.18
1526     7-6-15      T.S.O. VII
1527     9-21-15     T.S.O. II
1534     1-4-16      T.S.O. IV
1535     1-18-16     30.32
1536     2-16-16     T.S.O. II
1538     4-4-16      T.S.O. II
1540     10-5-15     T.S.O. II
1543     9-6-16      T.S.O. I
1545     9-19-16     T.S.O. V
1546     9-19-16     155.022
1547     10-3-16     130.78
1548     10-3-16     131.01 -
                     131.17
1549     10-17-16    T.S.O. II
1550     10-17-16    T.S.O. V
1551     11-7-16     T.S.O. VII
1552     11-7-16     T.S.O. II
1553     1-3-17      T.S.O. II
1554     11-21-16    53.13
                     151.01 -
1558     1-3-17      151.13,
                     151.99
1560     3-6-17      51.025
1561     3-20-17     117.02
1563     5-1-17      111.07
1564     5-15-17     Ch. 72, Sch. XI
1565     5-15-27     50.04,
                     51.065
1566     5-15-17     30.24
1568     7-5-17      111.07
1569     7-17-17     118.01
1570     8-21-17     30.21
1571     7-17-17     111.07
1572     7-17-17     30.24
1573     8- -17      115.01 -
                     115.06
                     31.002,
1574     9-5-17      31.092,
                     32.60,
                     32.75
1575     10-26-17    T.S.O. V
1576     10-2-17     T.S.O. II
1580     12-11-17    T.S.O. II
1582     2-12-18     T.S.O. II
1583     2-12-18     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
1584     2-12-18     131.05
1585     2-12-18     111.07
1586     2-26-18     T.S.O. VI
1587     2-26-18     T.S.O. II
1588     2-26-18     114.01
1589     3-26-18     T.S.O. II
1590     3-26-18     T.S.O. II
1591     4-9-18      T.S.O. II
1592     4-9-18      T.S.O. II
1593     4-23-18     T.S.O. II
1595     5-14-18     50.04,
                     51.065
1596     5-29-18     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1597     5-29-18     T.S.O. II
1598     5-29-18     T.S.O. II
1602     7-23-18     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1603     7-23-18     T.S.O. II
1604     7-23-18     T.S.O. II
1605     7-23-18     55.01 -
                     55.06
1606     8- -18      T.S.O. II
1607     8-27-18     T.S.O. V
1608     8-27-18     T.S.O. V
1609     9-10-18     50.04
1610     - -         T.S.O. V
                     111.01,
1611     11-26-18    111.07,
                     111.09,
                     111.10
1612     11-26-18    T.S.O. II
1616     12-12-18    111.07
1617     12-10-18    34.03
1618     12-10-18    T.S.O. II
1619     1-14-19     T.S.O. IV
1620     1-14-19     111.07
1621     2-25-19     T.S.O. II
                     Ch. 72, Sch.
1622     3-25-19     III,
                     IV
1623     3-25-19     111.08
1625     4-8-19      T.S.O. II
1627     5-13-19     T.S.O. II
1628     5-13-19     50.04,
                     51.065
1629     6-24-19     T.S.O. IV
1630     7-22-19     T.S.O. IV
1632     7-22-19     T.S.O. II
1633     7-22-19     T.S.O. II
1634     8-12-19     130.11
1635     8-26-19     155.130
1636     8-26-19     155.059
1638     9-23-19     119.01,
                     119.02
1639     10-14-19    34.04
1640     10-28-19    111.09
1644     12-9-19     111.07
                     155.001,
                     155.111 -
1646     2-24-20     155.113,
                     155.120,
                     155.141
1647     3-9-20      111.07
1648     3-12-20     T.S.O. II
1650     5-18-20     53.13
1651     5-18-20     50.04,
                     51.065
1652     5-29-20     111.19
1653     6-8-20      111.07,
                     111.20
                     12.01 -
1654     6-22-20     12.07,
                     12.99
1655     7-27-20     T.S.O. V
1657     8-17-20     T.S.O. II
1659     2-24-20     155.142
1661     10-12-20    53.04
1666     12-14-20    T.S.O. II
1667     1-11-21     T.S.O. II
1668     2-22-21     T.S.O. IV
1669     3-8-21      T.S.O. II
1670     3-8-21      117.08
1671     3-8-21      118.02
1672     3-22-21     120.01 -
                     120.17
                     155.001,
                     155.110 -
1673     3-22-21     155.113,
                     155.120,
                     155.141
1675     4-12-21     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1676     4-26-21     30.21
                     73.01 -
1677     4-26-21     73.04,
                     73.99
1678     4-26-21     154.006
1679     10-26-20    157.01 -
                     157.05
1680     5-24-21     50.04,
                     51.065
1681     5-27-21     111.07
1684     7-26-21     T.S.O. V
1686     8-23-21     34.05
1687     8-24-21     T.S.O. II
1688     10-12-21    T.S.O. II
1689     10-25-21    T.S.O. I
1694     7-26-21     T.S.O. II
1695     3-28-22     111.09
1696     3-28-22     50.04,
                     51.065
1698     4-11-22     30.21
1699     5-23-22     112.91
1700     5-23-22     T.S.O. I
1701     6-13-22     T.S.O. II
1702     6-13-22     T.S.O. II
1703     6-13-22     30.24
1705     9-12-22     111.07
1706     9-12-22     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1707     9-26-22     T.S.O. II
1708     9-26-22     31.007
                     10.99,
                     52.998,
                     53.04,
                     53.99,
                     70.99,
1713     - -         91.99,
                     92.999,
                     94.99,
                     117.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.06,
                     131.13
1715     2-27-23     T.S.O. II
1716     3-27-23     Ch. 72, Sch. X
1717     3-27-23     T.S.O. V
1718     3-27-23     T.S.O. VII
1720     6-12-23     32.16
1721     6-12-23     30.24
1724     4-10-23     T.S.O. II
1730     10-9-23     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1731     10-9-23     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1732     2-26-24     50.04,
                     51.065
1733     3-25-24     155.105
1735     5-13-24     T.S.O. I
1736     6-10-24     155.206
1737     6-10-24     150.24
1738     6-10-24     110.60
1739     6-10-24     112.120 -
                     112.132
1740     6-10-24     32.22
                    
 
 
