GODLEY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 22-15, passed 7-22-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Village Code
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Code alterations
   
10.05   Errors and omissions
Saving Clause
   
10.20   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.21   Public ways and public utility ordinances
   
10.22   Court proceedings
   
10.23   Severability clause
Definitions
   
10.35   Construction of words; interpretation
   
10.36   Definitions, general
   
10.37   Catchlines
General Prohibitions
   
10.50   Application of provisions
   
10.51   Liability of officers
   
10.52   Conservators of the peace
 
   
10.99   General penalty
VILLAGE CODE
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this village code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code
of Godley, Illinois. This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited
as the “Godley Village Code” or “this code,” and is hereby published by
authority of the Board of Trustees, and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the village, as provided in §
10.03. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this village code by title
in any legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.20.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Procedure. Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the
title, chapter, subchapter, section number, and division of the section or
sections to be amended, and this shall constitute sufficient compliance with
any statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance
of any part of this village code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance
shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance
material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of
this village code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and
shall be inserted in each individual copy of the village code.
   (B)   Section references. Whenever in one section reference is made to
another section hereof, such reference shall extend and apply to the section
referred to as subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless
the subject matter be changed or materially altered by the amendment or
revision.
   (C)   Reference to village code. Any additions or amendments to this code,
when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Trustees
to make the same a part of this code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in
this code so that a reference to this village code shall be understood to
include them.
   (D)   Application of code provisions. All of the provisions of this title,
not incompatible with future legislation, shall apply to ordinances hereafter
adopted amending or supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically
provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace, or
deface in any way any section or any page of this village code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of
the Village Clerk when directed so to do by order of the Village Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform in the
text as originally published. No such alteration shall be made or permitted if
any question exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
SAVING CLAUSE
§ 10.20 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Ordinances repealed and ordinances saved from repeal. All general
ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this village code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this village code or are, by
necessary implication, herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in this subchapter), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or
vacating streets, alleys, or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the village; and all special
ordinances.
   (B)   Limitations on repeal. The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
division (A) above, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or
by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person
holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal
of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed
or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.21 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service, or rates of public
utilities, shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village code or
by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as the village code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case, this village code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.22 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior acts. No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   Extend to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current pending actions. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this subchapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation,
or as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof
in force at the time of the adoption of this village code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.23 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any chapter, subchapter, section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this village code, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to
be unconstitutional or invalid, or ineffective, by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each chapter, subchapter,
section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective
of the fact that any one or more chapters, subchapters, sections, divisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional,
invalid, or ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
DEFINITIONS
§ 10.35 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   General rules of construction.
      (1)   Whenever any word in any section of this village code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or
persons, any single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party, or person is referred to in this village code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties, or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this village code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
      (2)   A general term following specific enumeration of terms is not to be
limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
      (3)   Either conjunction AND or OR shall include the other as if written
AND/OR.
   (B)   Use of term ordinance. The word ORDINANCE contained in the ordinances
of the village has been changed in the content of this village code to “title,”
“chapter,” “subchapter,” “section,” and/or “division,” or words of like import,
for organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to the village
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original
ordinances.
   (C)   Relationship to statutes.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      (2)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, such reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to such Illinois Compiled Statutes section. Footnotes,
cross references, statutory reference, and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
Historical references following a section show the derivation from the 1982
village code or the ordinance number where applicable, and the date of passage,
along with any amendments to such section.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.36 DEFINITIONS, GENERAL.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. Unless otherwise indicated, the Village Board of Trustees
of the Village of Godley, Illinois.
   CODE. The village code, as adopted by ordinance and as hereafter modified by
amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles, chapters, sections, or
divisions.
   COUNTIES. The Counties of Will and Grundy, State of Illinois.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Godley.”
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the village shall begin on July 1 of each
year and end on June 30 of the year following.
   GENDER. A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Godley.”
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government, or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished, and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Godley, Counties of Will and Grundy, State of
Illinois.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.37 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the village code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify,
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
GENERAL PROHIBITIONS
§ 10.50 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this subchapter shall
be applicable to every section of this village code, the same as though it were
a part of each and every separate section.
   (B)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this village code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   No specific penalty provided. Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
village code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for
such breach, the provisions of this subchapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 10.51 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this village code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Village Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 10.52 CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE.
   (A)   Appointments. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25, the Village President
may, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, appoint one or more
conservators of the peace, whose authority shall be strictly limited as
hereinafter set out.
   (B)   Term of office. Conservators of the peace shall serve until removed by
the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Authority; restrictions. Conservators of the peace appointed pursuant
to this section shall only have the authority to serve process in the form of
notices to appear for violation of village ordinances, excluding traffic
violations. The Village President may further limit the authority of any
appointed conservator of the peace to service of process in the form of notices
to appear for only specific ordinance violations, to the exclusion of all
others.
   (D)   Police officers. Police Department officers are hereby declared to be
conservators of the peace by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4) (Ord. 88-02, passed 7-13-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see §
35.03
   Functions of the Police Department, see §
35.02
   Police Department, see
Chapter 35
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty imposed. Unless specifically provided elsewhere in
this code or state statute, any person found to have been in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not less
than $75 nor more than $750. No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine,
penalty, or cost shall exceed six months for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for
each offense may include a requirement that the offending party perform some
reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter
in public parks, or upon public highways, or performing maintenance of public
facilities. A violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (B)   Acts consistent with criminal laws of state. If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution, other than the penitentiary, not to
exceed six months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (C)   Minimum but no maximum penalty. Whenever in this code a minimum but
not maximum fine or penalty is imposed, the court may, in its discretion, fine
the offender any sum exceeding the minimum fine or penalty so fixed, but not
exceeding $750.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the village shall be as follows: a disc with “Village
of Godley, Godley, Illinois” on the outer circle and on the inner circle the
words “Corporate Seal.”
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   FINANCES AND FEES; TAXATION
      
35.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
36.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Village President
   
30.02   Village Board of Trustees
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Rules of order
   
30.05   Committees
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The President shall be elected for a four-
year term, and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified
as is provided by statute.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the village,
and shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by statute or
ordinance.
      (2)   He or she shall have supervision over all of the executive officers
and employees of the village, and shall have the power and authority to inspect
all books and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any officer or
employee of the village at any reasonable time.
   (C)   President Pro Tem. During a temporary absence or disability of the
President, the Village Board shall elect one of its number to act as President
Pro Tem who, during such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of
President, as is provided by statute, but shall not be entitled to vote both as
President Pro Tem or as Trustee.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02 VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Election. The Board of Trustees consists of six members who shall be
elected to office and serve for a four-year term as is provided by statute.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Trustees shall be the legislative
division of the village government and shall perform such duties and have such
powers as may be authorized by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the Village Board shall be
the fourth Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Village Hall. Provided,
that if the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take
place on the Monday before the holiday at the same hour and place.
   (B)   Adjourned meetings. Adjourned meetings may be held at such other times
as the Village Board of Trustees may determine.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Village
President or any three Trustees. Public notice of any special meeting, except a
meeting held in the event of a bona fide emergency, shall be given at least 48
hours before such meeting, which notice shall also include the agenda for the
special meeting.
   (D)   Presiding officer. The President shall be the presiding officer of the
Board of Trustees at all regular or special meetings, and when the Board meets
as a committee of the whole.
   (E)   Quorum. A majority of the elected members of the Board shall
constitute a quorum thereof, but no ordinance shall be passed except upon the
favorable vote of a majority of the elected members, as is provided by statute.
   (F)   Records kept. The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of
the Board meetings.
   (G)   Disturbing meetings. No person shall disturb any regular or special
meeting of the Village Board or of any committee thereof, or behave in a
disorderly manner at any such meeting.
   (H)   Open meetings. All meetings of the Village Board of Trustees shall be
open to the public unless otherwise excepted by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 84-01, passed 8-8-1983; Ord. 96-04, passed 1-8-
1996) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.04 RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business at meetings of the Village
Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   Reading minutes of previous meeting and special meetings;
      (2)   Petitions and communications;
      (3)   Treasurer’s reports;
      (4)   Approval of bills by the Village Board of Trustees;
      (5)   Reports of officers;
      (6)   Reports of standing committees;
      (7)   Reports of special committees;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   Miscellaneous business; and
      (10)   After regular business, the agenda will be heard. Anyone wanting
on the agenda will notify the President or Village Clerk by mail two days prior
to the regular meeting. The Clerk will determine the time for each one on the
agenda.
   (B)   Rescinded actions. No vote or action of the Village Board shall be
rescinded at any special meeting unless there be present at such special
meeting as many members of the Village Board as were present at the meeting
when such vote or action was taken, as is provided by statute.
   (C)   “Robert’s Rules Of Order.” “Robert’s Rules Of Order” shall govern the
deliberations of the Village Board, except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 30.05 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees. The following shall be the standing committees of
the Village Board:
      (1)   Committee on streets and alleys;
      (2)   Committee on public grounds and buildings;
      (3)   Committee on ordinances;
      (4)   Committee on street lighting;
      (5)   Committee on licenses; and
      (6)   Committee on emergency services or disasters.
   (B)   Special committees. The President shall appoint such special
committees as he or she may deem necessary or as may be directed by the Village
Board.
   (C)   Membership in committees.
      (1)   Appointment. The President shall appoint the members of all
standing and special committees in the absence of specific directions by the
Village Board, and shall designate the Chairpersons thereof.
      (2)   Membership; Chairperson. Every committee of the Village Board shall
consist of three members including the Chairperson, unless the Village Board
shall provide otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
30.03(G) shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Elections
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for municipal offices shall be held as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Application of provisions
   
32.02   Appointment; selection of officers, employees; vacancies
   
32.03   Terms of office
   
32.04   Oath and bond
   
32.05   Duties
   
32.06   Inspection of records
   
32.07   Compensation
   
32.08   Retirement
   
32.09   Disaster emergencies; interim successors
Village Clerk
   
32.20   Election; term of office
   
32.21   Bond
   
32.22   Duties
   
32.23   Public records
Village Treasurer
   
32.35   Appointment; term of office
   
32.36   Bond
   
32.37   Duties
Village Attorney
   
32.50   Office created; appointment
   
32.51   Duties
   
32.52   Special counsel
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers or
employees of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office
or of the time of the appointment of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT; SELECTION OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The President, with the consent of the Village Board, shall make
appointments to fill all appointive offices, and employees shall be selected by
the President.
   (B)   Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the
same manner.
   (C)   Appointments in excess of a one year term shall be with the consent of
a majority of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 32.03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Officers. Every appointive officer or employee of the village shall
hold office for a term of one year, or until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance.
   (B)   Employees. Employees selected shall serve until removed by action of
the Village Board or recommendation of the appointing officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 32.04 OATH AND BOND.
   (A)   Oath of office. Every officer of the village shall, before entering
upon his or her duties, take the oath prescribed by state law.
   (B)   Bond. Every officer shall, before entering upon the duties of his or
her office, be covered by a blanket bond purchased by the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 32.05 DUTIES.
   (A)   Assignment of duties. The President shall have the power to assign to
any appointive officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some
other specific officer, and shall determine disputes or questions relating to
the respective powers or duties of officers.
   (B)   Monies received. Every officer of the village shall, at least once
each month, turn over all monies received by him or her in his or her official
capacity to the Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same
was received.
   (C)   Records to successor. Every officer of the village, upon the
termination of his or her office for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his
or her successor all books and records which may be the property of the
village, and if no successor has been appointed within one week after the
termination of office, such property shall be delivered either to the Clerk or
to the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 32.06 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection
by the President or any member of the Board at all reasonable times, whether or
not such records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 32.07 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Elective officials.
      (1)   Compensation schedule. Each of the following village officials
shall receive a set per diem according to the following schedule and subject to
the remaining provisions of this section.
 
Clerk     $90 per meeting
President $90 per meeting
Treasurer $90 per meeting
Trustees  $65 per meeting
 
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   For the purpose of this division (A), the ESDA Coordinator
participating in functions, planning, training, and exercising of the village’s
emergency operations plan will receive a flat rate of $90 per class.
         (b)   1.   IPRA related activities are exempt from this division (A)
(2).
            2.   All village officials shall receive payment for all meetings
attended each day and shall receive their normal meeting salary regardless of
the number of meetings held in one day.
            3.   There is no meeting limit.
      (3)   Interpretation. For purposes of this section, MEETINGS shall
include regular, special, annual, and committee meetings wherein village
business is discussed and/or transacted.
      (4)   Officials filling vacant positions. If a vacancy occurs in any
village office covered by this chapter and a successor is appointed or elected
by the President and/or Board of Trustees, then said successor shall receive
compensation for meetings attended the same as if that successor had been
lawfully elected by the voters of the village at a general election.
      (5)   Effect of compensation. No person shall receive compensation for an
office covered herein until after the next general election at which that
particular office is to be filled and after the person appointed or elected to
that particular office is sworn in.
   (B)   Appointive officers; village employees. All appointive officers and
village employees shall receive such salaries as may be provided from time to
time by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7) (Ord. 99-01, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 32.08 RETIREMENT.
   The village elects to participate in the State Municipal Retirement Fund,
effective January 1, 1992. The standard for IMRF participation shall be a
position normally requiring performance of duty for 600 hours per year.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-8) (Ord. 92-02, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 32.09 DISASTER EMERGENCIES; INTERIM SUCCESSORS.
   (A)   Successors designated. The Board of Trustees designates emergency
interim successors, in the following order of succession, to be contacted in
the event of a local disaster emergency and the principal executive officer,
the Village President, is unable to be located:
      (1)   Village Clerk;
      (2)   ESDA Coordinator; and/or
      (3)   Deputy ESDA Coordinator.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   In the event the Village President, or his or her deputy, provided
for pursuant to law, is unavailable, the powers of the office shall be
exercised and duties shall be discharged by his or her designated interim
successors in the order specified.
      (2)   The emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the office to which designated until such time as a
vacancy, which may exist, shall be filled in accordance with the constitution
or statutes, or until the officer, or his or her deputy, of a preceding
emergency interim successor, again becomes available to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   Information to local ESDA. The Village Clerk shall compile the names,
addresses, and phone numbers of the above listed individuals, including the
Village President, and forthwith notify the Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency Office of the individuals who are to be contacted in the event of an
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-9) (Res. 91-10, passed 5-13-1991)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 32.20 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed and serve for a four-year term until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-1)
§ 32.21 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Village Clerk’s
name shall be listed with the company issuing the blanket bond for all village
officials required to give bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-2)
§ 32.22 DUTIES.
   The Village Clerk shall:
   (A)   Signature. Seal and attest all contracts of the village, and all
licenses, permits, and other such documents as shall require this formality;
   (B)   Monies collected. Turn over all monies received by him or her on
behalf of the village to the Village Treasurer, promptly on receipt of the
same, and with such money, he shall give a statement as to the source thereof;
   (C)   Accounts. Keep accounts, showing all monies received by him or her and
the source and disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be required
by statute or ordinance;
   (D)   Documents and records.
      (1)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Clerk is required by statute to keep, keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued and the payments thereon, a record showing all of the
officers and regular employees of the village, and such other records as may be
required by the Board;
      (2)   Documents. Be the custodian of all documents belonging to the
village which are not assigned to the custody of some other official of the
village by the President or the Village Board; and
      (3)   Indexes. Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him or her so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be
at hand.
   (E)   Village seal. Be the custodian of the village seal and affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required; and
   (F)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided, perform
such other duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance, or
upon approval by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-3)
§ 32.23 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Books and records of the village are maintained by the Village Clerk in the
Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3) (Res. 84-04, passed 6-25-1984)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 32.35 APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees and shall serve for a four-year term until
his or her successor is qualified, as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-1) (Ord. 85-07, passed 5-13-1985)
§ 32.36 BOND.
   Before entering into the duties of his or her office, the Treasurer’s name
shall be listed with the company issuing the blanket bond for all village
officials and employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-2)
§ 32.37 DUTIES.
   The Village Treasurer shall:
   (A)   Generally. Perform such duties as may be prescribed for him or her by
statute or by ordinance. He or she shall receive all monies paid into the
village, either directly from the person paying it or from the hands of such
other officer as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out money only on the
approval of the Village Board of Trustees. The signatures of the Village Clerk
and the President are also required;
   (B)   Deposit of funds. Deposit the village funds in such depositories as
may be selected from time to time as is provided by law, and keep the village
money separate and distinct from his or her own and not the village funds;
   (C)   Records. Keep records showing all monies received by him or her, the
sources from which it was received, and the purpose for which it was paid out,
and keep a record at all times showing the financial status of the village;
   (D)   Books and accounts. Keep such books and accounts as may be required by
the Village Board and keep them in the manner required by the Village Board;
and
   (E)   Reports. Make monthly reports to the Village Board showing the state
of the finances of the village and the amounts received and spent during the
month, which reports shall be filed, and make an annual report before the last
Tuesday in December with the total amount of all receipts and expenditures of
the village, and his or her transactions as Treasurer, during the preceding
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-3)
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 32.50 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Attorney, an executive office
of the village. The Attorney shall be appointed by the President, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6C-1)
§ 32.51 DUTIES.
   The Village Attorney shall:
   (A)   Suits and actions. Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at
law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the village on
behalf of the village, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
village;
   (B)   Judgments. See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees
rendered or entered in favor of the village and of all similar interlocutory
orders; and
   (C)   Legal advice. Be the legal advisor of the village and render advice on
all legal questions affecting the village whenever requested to do so by any
village official. Upon request by the President or by the Village Board, he or
she shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
(Prior Code, § 1-6C-2)
§ 32.52 SPECIAL COUNSEL.
   The President may, from time to time, retain an attorney to represent or
advise the village on legal matters, if no Village Attorney has been appointed,
and he or she may likewise retain special counsel to advise or represent the
village on special matters or to assist the Village Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-6C-3)
CHAPTER 33: COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Commission created; membership; appointment
   
33.02   Terms of office; vacancies
   
33.03   Organization
   
33.04   Voting authority
   
33.05   Powers and duties
   
33.06   Compensation
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the village, which shall
consist of five members, to include the following: the President shall be ex
officio member of the Planning Commission and the four other members, who shall
reside within the territory of jurisdiction of the Planning Commission and who
shall be appointed by the President, subject to Board approval, on the basis of
their particular fitness for their service and duty as members of the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 33.02 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The ex officio member of the Planning Commission shall serve for the term of
his or her elective office. Of the appointed members, two shall be appointed
for a term of two years and two shall be appointed for a term of four years.
Vacancies, however, shall be filled by appointment for unexpired terms only.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 33.03 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Officers; rules and regulations. Following appointments, members shall
meet and elect officers and adopt rules and regulations for governing the
Commission’s meetings.
   (B)   Meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet at such times as it may,
by resolution, designate, and special meetings shall be held at the request of
at least two members.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 33.04 VOTING AUTHORITY.
   Each member, including the ex officio member of the Commission, is entitled
to one vote.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 33.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development, or redevelopment, of the village.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the Official Comprehensive Plan,
or part thereof, of the village. This Plan may include reasonable requirements
with reference to streets, alleys, public grounds, and other improvements
hereinafter specified. The Plan, as recommended by the Planning Commission and
as thereafter adopted by the village, may be made applicable, by the terms
thereof, to land situated within the corporate limits and contiguous territory,
not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any municipality. Such Plan may be implemented by ordinances:
      (1)   Establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and
for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements;
      (2)   Establishing reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment; and
      (3)   That designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   (B)   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the Official Comprehensive
Plan;
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to time,
plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the Official Comprehensive
Plan;
   (D)   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the Official Plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally, to promote the realization of the
Official Comprehensive Plan;
   (E)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board schemes for regulating
or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to solar energy
necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems, as defined in §
1.2 of the Comprehensive Solar Energy Act of 1977, being 30 ILCS 725/1.2(d), or
to recommend changes in such schemes; and
   (F)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
subchapter as may be conferred by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 33.06 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND FEES; TAXATION
Section
Finances
   
34.01   Contracts requiring bids
Taxation
   
34.15   Municipal retailer’s occupation tax
   
34.16   Municipal service occupation tax
 
   
34.99   Penalty
FINANCES
§ 34.01 CONTRACTS REQUIRING BIDS.
   All contracts for supplies, materials, or labor involving an expenditure in
excess of $10,000 shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder after
publication of notice and the taking of sealed bids. One copy shall be kept by
the Village Clerk in his or her office, and the other shall be given to the
contractor. All such contracts so executed shall be in the name of the village
and shall be signed on behalf of the village by the President, attested to by
the Village Clerk, and the corporate seal shall be affixed thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 89-04, passed 9-26-1988)
TAXATION
§ 34.15 MUNICIPAL RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the village at the
rate of 5% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
   (B)   Report required. Every person engaged in such business in the village
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
State Department of Revenue required by § 3 of “an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption,” (or the State Retailers’ Occupation Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS 120/3) approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 34.16 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 5% of the
cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicepeople
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   Report required. Every supplier or serviceperson required to account
for municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file,
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being
35 ILCS 115/9.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, as stated in § 34.17, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of
this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 84-08, passed 1-9-1984; Ord. 84-09, passed 2-13-
1984)
CHAPTER 35: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Department established
   
35.02   Functions of Department
   
35.03   Chief of Police
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village to be
known as the Police Department. The head of the Department shall be the Chief
of Police, who shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of
applicable ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. passed 9-27-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Conservators of the peace, see §
10.52(A)
§ 35.02 FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Department shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Crime prevention. Preserve the public peace, prevent crime, and detect
and arrest offenders;
   (B)   Traffic enforcement. Administer and enforce laws regulating,
directing, controlling, and restricting the movement of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, and the general use of the streets by vehicles and the
public;
   (C)   Incident report preparation. Prepare reports on injuries to persons
and property occurring by accident or otherwise on the streets, in alleys, and
other public places within the village as required by law;
   (D)   Weapons disposition. Provide a procedure for the sale, destruction, or
other disposition of all weapons or other articles used in the commission of a
crime or coming into the custody of the Department; provided, that where such
weapon or article may be used as evidence in either a civil or criminal
proceeding, it shall in no way be disposed of except upon a written order of a
court of law.
   (E)   Lost property. Provide a procedure for the sale of unclaimed, lost, or
stolen articles coming into the custody of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. passed 9-27-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Conservators of the peace, see §
10.52(C)
§ 35.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment and term. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the
Village President with the consent of the Village Board, in accordance with the
provisions of ordinances and resolutions in effect, and shall serve for the
term specified therein.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Chief of Police shall be accountable to the
Village Board and subject to their supervision and control, and shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   Administer the affairs of the Department;
      (2)   Have general authority and control over all departmental staff and
oversee the proper fulfillment of all tasks and duties assigned to the
Department;
      (3)   Prescribe such rules and regulations, as he or she deems necessary
or expedient, for the proper operation of the Department and, to that end, keep
himself or herself informed of the latest administrative practices; and
      (4)   Take all personnel actions, including hiring, assigning, and
reassigning employees, within his or her Department and supervise their
performances.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. passed 9-27-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Conservators of the peace, see §
10.52(A)
CHAPTER 36: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Chief Enforcement Officer
   
36.02   Delegation and appointment
   
36.03   Fines and penalties
§ 36.01 CHIEF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Village President, or an agent of the village, shall be the Chief
Enforcement Officer with respect to all village ordinances and code provisions,
including, without limitation, the following:
   (A)   Title XI, Business Regulations;
   (B)   Title IX, General Regulations;
   (C)   Title XIII, General Offenses;
   (D)   Title VII, Traffic Code; and
   (E)   Title XV, Land Usage.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 3-28-2016)
§ 36.02 DELEGATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Village President, or an agent of the village, may, in his or her sole
discretion, appoint one or more Assistant Enforcement Officers, or delegate
enforcement duties to other village officials.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 3-28-2016)
§ 36.03 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   The Village President, or an agent of the village, with the advice and
consent of the Board, may assess fines and penalties for village code
violations, consistent with applicable sections of the existing village code.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 3-28-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   [Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Application, scope of provisions
   
70.04   State Vehicle Code adopted by reference
   
70.05   Violation of traffic laws prohibited
   
70.06   Enforcement officials
   
70.07   Obedience to enforcement officials
   
70.08   Directing traffic without authorization
   
70.09   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
   
70.10   Transporting liquor
Trucks, Tractors, Semi-Trailers
   
70.25   Parking prohibited in residential areas
   
70.26   Weight limits
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the “Godley Traffic Title.”
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein, but are
defined in the state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, any such
definition therein shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used
herein, except when the context otherwise requires. The following words and
phrases, when used in this title, shall, for the purpose of this title, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, except when the
context otherwise requires.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power on which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels, either of which is more than 16 inches in diameter.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same, except at such points only as may be determined by
the public authority having jurisdiction over such street or highway.
   CROSSWALKS. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections,
or any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   DISTRICTS.
      (1)   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory of the village contiguous to and
including a highway when, within any 600 feet along such highway, there are
buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not
limited to, hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public
buildings, which occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet
collectively on both sides of the highway.
      (2)   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory of the village contiguous to and
including a highway not comprising a business district, when the property on
such highway, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
      (3)   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of the village other than business
and residence districts.
      (4)   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to, and including, any
street which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-fourths mile or more.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county, or municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call, and EMERGENCY VEHICLES of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion, and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concision, by
percussion, or by detonation of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   HIGHWAY OR STREET. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to use of the public, as
a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
      (1)   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam,
or gravel.
      (2)   LANED ROADWAY. A street, the roadway of which is divided into two
or more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
      (3)   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof, the entrance
from which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to
stop before entering or crossing the same and where stop signs are erected as
provided in this title.
   HOUSE CAR; CAMPER. Any motor vehicle that is originally designed or
subsequently altered, equipped for human habitation, and which is not used to
transport property on its own structure other than property used for human
habitation or camping purposes.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curve lines; or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles; or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   LANE CONTROL SIGNAL. An electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a
square or rectangular design and employing distinctive colors or symbols used
to control the direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the
indication applies.
   LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction
thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his
or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any
other vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and not operated upon
rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual and not inconsistent with state statute or
this title placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgager
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PARKING METER. A mechanical device located upon a public street or sidewalk
in a place designated by the Board of Trustees as a PARKING METER ZONE,
hereinafter defined, which device shall record a certain number of minutes by
the use of a clock mechanism determining the period of time for which parking
privileges may be extended to the person depositing a coin therein.
   PARKING METER ZONE. Such as may from time to time be established by
ordinance in the area designated by the Board of Trustees where a vehicle may
be temporarily parked and then be allowed to remain for the period of time
indicated on the meter.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person on foot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PROPERTY LINES. The line marking the boundary between any street and the
lots or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the village, the county, any park
district, school district, the state, or the United States government.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected in accordance
with the laws governing same and intended to give notice of the presence of
railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motive, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   REVERSIBLE LANE. A lane of a two or more laned roadways upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or so marked or indicated
by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a
safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle of the second division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency, or by or for a private or religious organization
solely for the transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
   SIDEWALKS. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   TIRES.
      (1)   METAL TIRE. Every tire, the surface of which in contact with the
highway is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
      (2)   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to
support the load.
      (3)   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which
does not depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   TRACTORS.
      (1)   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a
farm implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements
of husbandry, and every implementof husbandry which is self-propelled.
      (2)   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted
exclusively for agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations,
including farm wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection
therewith, or for lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided, that
no farm wagon, wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a capacity of more than
400 bushels or gross weight of more than 30,000 pounds shall be included
hereunder.
      (3)   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, whether singly or together, while using any highway for the
purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing
vehicle.
      (1)   HOUSE TRAILER. A trailer or semi-trailer which is designed,
constructed, and equipped as a dwelling place, living abode, or sleeping place
(either permanently or temporarily) and is equipped for use as a conveyance on
streets and highways, or a trailer or semi-trailer whose chassis and exterior
shell is designed and constructed for use as a HOUSE TRAILER, as defined
herein, but which is used, instead, permanently or temporarily for the
advertising, sale, display, or promotion of merchandise or services, or for any
other commercial purpose except for transportation of property for distribution
by private carrier or the transportation of property for hire.
      (2)   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be
drawn by another vehicle attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
      (3)   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
      (4)   STINGER STEERED SEMI-TRAILER. Every semi-trailer which has its
kingpin on a projection to the front of the structure of such semi-trailer and
is combined with the fifth wheel of the truck tractor at a point not less than
two feet to the rear of the center of the rearmost axle of such tractor.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or
may be, transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks.
      (2)   For the purpose of this title, MOTOR VEHICLES as a class shall be
divided into two divisions:
         (a)   FIRST. Vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not more
than ten persons; and
         (b)   SECOND. Vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying
freight or the carrying of more than ten persons.
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   When required by an official sign, means the act of granting the
privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within
the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left.
      (2)   Provided, that when the roadway is clear, the vehicle may proceed
into the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 70.03 APPLICATION, SCOPE OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of provisions. The provisions of this title relating to
the operation of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon a
highway, except where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
   (B)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this title regulating
the movement and parking of vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles
while actively engaged in installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets
or street pavements.
   (C)   Owners of real estate. Nothing in this title shall be construed to
prevent the owner of real property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel by permission of the owner and not as a matter of right from prohibiting
such use or from requiring other or different, or additional, conditions than
those specified in this title, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem
best to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 70.04 STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions, and
sections of the State Vehicle Code, as amended, are hereby adopted by the
village.
   (B)   Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
title, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this title if proceeded hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   State Vehicle Code, see 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
§ 70.05 VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly permit the
operation of such vehicle upon the highway in any manner contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department, or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police, to enforce all street traffic
laws of the village and all the state vehicle laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand, or signal in conformance with the traffic laws; provided, that in the
event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department may exercise the powers and authority
of a police officer in directing traffic at the scene or in the immediate
vicinity of the scene of any fire, or where the Fire Department has responded
to an emergency call, for as long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6)
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 DIRECTING TRAFFIC WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION.
   Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren,
or red or blue lights.
   (B)   Provided, the officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform,
and if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an
official police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 TRANSPORTING LIQUOR.
   No person shall transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor in
or upon or about any motor vehicle, except in the original package with the
seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRUCKS, TRACTORS, SEMI-TRAILERS
§ 70.25 PARKING PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Parking prohibited in residential areas. No person shall park or cause
to be parked a truck tractor or semi-trailer on, in front of, or alongside a
lot within the village limits which is used for or zoned for residential use.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to a truck tractor and semi-
trailer which is on, in front of, or alongside a residential lot for the
purpose of delivering or picking up, at a residence located thereon,
appliances, furniture, and other household goods and furnishings used or to be
used therein, or for the purpose of delivering construction materials for
residential related purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 92-08, passed 6-8-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight limits established. No vehicle weighing in excess of six tons
shall be driven upon any street, roadway, or alley within the village,
excluding therefrom any state highway running through the village.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Weight limitations shall not apply to vehicles (including loads)
operated by a public utility when transporting equipment required for emergency
repair of public utility facilities or properties or water wells, nor to a
combination of vehicles consisting of a tow truck, and a disabled vehicle or
vehicles when engaged in towing such disabled vehicle or vehicles from the
highway to the nearest qualified repair station; provided, that neither the
disabled vehicle nor any vehicle being towed, nor the tow truck itself, exceeds
the weight limitations permitted under this section.
      (2)   However, nothing in this section shall prohibit a tow truck, under
instructions of a police officer, from legally clearing from the roadway to the
berm or shoulder of the highway a disabled vehicle that may be in violation of
weight limitations of this section.
   (C)   Failure to weigh vehicle. Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop
and submit his or her vehicle and load to weighing after being directed to do
so by an officer, or removes, or causes the removal of, the load, or part of
it, prior to weighing, shall be punished as set forth in §
70.99(C)(2)(c).
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 85-06A, passed 5-13-1985) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for a person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in this title. Every person convicted of a
misdemeanor for a violation of any provision of this title shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11)
   (B)   A driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a
visual or audible signal by a police officer, as stated in §
70.09, directing such driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop,
willfully fails or refuses to obey such direction, increases his or her speed,
extinguishes his or her lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the
officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9)
   (C)   (1)   A separate and distinct offense shall be considered as committed
for each day a truck tractor and/or semi-trailer remains parked in violation of
§
70.25.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
      (2)   (a)   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the
provisions of §
70.26, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such
violation, and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted
for such violation. Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of any violation
of this section shall be fined according to the following schedule:
Pounds Overweight Fine
Pounds Overweight         Fine
Up to and including 2,000 $50
From 2,001 to 2,500       $135
From 2,501 to 3,000       $165
From 3,001 to 3,500       $260
From 3,501 to 4,000       $300
From 4,001 to 4,500       $425
From 4,501 to 5,000       $475
From 5,001 or more        $475
 
         (b)   In addition, any person, firm, or corporation convicted of four
or more violations of §
70.26 within any 12-month period shall be fined up to an additional amount of
$2,500 for the fourth and each subsequent conviction attributable to any one
employee/driver.
         (c)   Whoever shall violate §
70.26(C) is guilty of a business offense and shall be fined not less than $500
nor more than $2,000.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
(Ord. 85-06A, passed 5-13-1985)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Operation of emergency vehicles
   
71.02   Speed restrictions
   
71.03   Driving on right side of roadway
   
71.04   One-way streets; rotary traffic islands
   
71.05   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.06   Reversing traffic movement
   
71.07   Following too closely
   
71.08   Passing, overtaking vehicles
   
71.09   Yield right-of-way streets
   
71.10   Reckless driving
   
71.11   Drag racing
§ 71.01 OPERATION OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or a suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated:
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limit so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
a specified direction.
   (B)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, apply only when the vehicle is making use of
audible, if in motion, and visual signals meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
Cross-reference:
   Presumption of legality, see §
72.02(F)
§ 71.02 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Maximum speed restrictions.
      (1)   Duty to follow speed limit. No person shall drive any motor vehicle
on any street within the village at a speed which is greater than the maximum
speed limit established by this section; provided, however, that no person
shall drive any vehicle on any street or highway within the village under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation or of the County of
Will/Grundy at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for such street by those
corporate authorities.
      (2)   Speed limits established.
         (a)   Vehicles of the first division. The maximum speed limit for a
vehicle of the first division, as defined in §
70.02, unless some other limit is established pursuant to division (A)(3)
below, is as follows:
            1.   Outside of an urban district, the maximum is 55 mph;
            2.   In an urban district, the maximum is 25 mph; except that in an
alley, the maximum is 15 mph; and
            3.   The maximum speed limit for a vehicle of the first division
towing another vehicle is 55 mph outside of an urban district, 25 mph in an
urban district, and 15 mph in an alley.
         (b)   Vehicles of the second division. The maximum speed limit for a
vehicle of the second division, as defined by §
70.02, unless some other limit is established pursuant to the provisions of
division (A)(3) below, is as follows:
            1.   If the vehicle is designed for pulling or carrying freight and
has a gross weight of 8,000 pounds or less (including the weight of the vehicle
and the maximum load) and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is 55
mph outside of an urban district, 25 mph in an urban district, and 15 mph in an
alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two or more solid tires, the
maximum is ten mph at all times and in all locations;
            2.   If the vehicle is designed for pulling or carrying freight and
has a gross weight of more than 8,000 pounds (including the weight of the
vehicle and the maximum load), and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the
maximum is 55 mph outside of an urban district, 25 mph in an urban district,
and 15 mph in an alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two or more solid
tires, the maximum is ten mph at all times and in all locations;
            3.   If the vehicle is designed for carrying more than ten
passengers and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is 55 mph; and
            4.   A house car or camper shall not exceed 55 mph or the posted
speed limit, whichever is less.
         (c)   School speed limits. Provided appropriate signs are posted upon
streets and highways within the village giving proper due warning that a school
zone is being approached, and indicating the school zone and the maximum speed
limit in effect during school days when school children are present, no person
shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph when passing through
a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across
which children pass going to and from school during school days when school
children are present.
      (3)   Alteration of limits. If the corporate authorities, by ordinance,
set other limits as provided by 625 ILCS 5/11-604 after an engineering or
traffic survey, then such limit shall govern the rate of speed on the streets.
   (B)   Duty to decrease speed. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not
exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the
duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reasons of weather or
highway conditions; and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid
colliding with any person or vehicle, or on entering the highway in compliance
with legal requirements, and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (C)   Minimum speed regulations.
      (1)   Minimum speed generally. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at
such a slow speed as to impede or block normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his or
her vehicle or in compliance with law.
      (2)   Heavy equipment and tractors. When any implement or road tractor is
operated on a highway within the village at a speed of less than 25 mph, there
shall be displayed at all times during such operation a red flag at least 12
inches square carried on such vehicle, at a height not less than ten, nor more
than 12, feet above the ground, or at least one flashing amber signal lamp
mounted as high as practicable, between sunrise and sunset. Such vehicle shall
at all times display at least one flashing amber signal lamp mounted as high as
practicable and of sufficient intensity to be visible to the rear a distance of
at least 500 feet if used in normal sunlight; provided, however, that only the
rear vehicle of a combination of vehicles coupled together need display such a
flag or lamp.
   (D)   Reasonable and proper speed. No person shall drive any vehicle upon
any highway of the village at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and
proper with regard to the traffic conditions and the use of the highway, or
which endangers the safety of any person or property.
   (E)   Electronic speed detecting devices. Where signs giving notice of a
change in the speed limit have been erected, electronic speed detecting devices
shall not be used within 500 feet beyond any such sign in the direction of
travel; if so used in violation hereof, evidence obtained thereby shall be
inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding.
   (F)   Ambulances exempt.
      (1)   The speed limits established by this section do not apply to
ambulances in motion which include any motor vehicle primarily designed and
used for conveyance of sick or injured persons, provided:
         (a)   The person operating the ambulance reasonably believes that he
or she is responding to a bona fide emergency call or is specifically directed
by a licensed physician to disregard speed limit laws in operating the
ambulance during, and for the purpose of, the specific trip or journey
involved.
         (b)   The ambulance shall be equipped with a siren producing an
audible signal of an intensity of 100 decibels at a distance of 50 feet from
said siren, and with a lamp emitting an oscillating, rotating, or flashing red
beam directed in part toward the front of the vehicle and visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle. The aforesaid siren and lamp shall be in full operation at all times
during such journey.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (F) do not relieve the driver of an
ambulance from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street, nor do these provisions protect the driver of any such
vehicle from the consequences of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
   (G)   Violations; charges. In every charge of violation of this section by
failure to observe an applicable speed limit, the complaint, traffic ticket, or
notice to appear shall specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to
have driven and the speed limit which is applicable at the place of the alleged
violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Res. 93-06, passed 10-26-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic; and
      (5)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 71.04 ONE-WAY STREETS; ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   One-way streets.
      (1)   Authority to designate. The corporate authority may designate any
highway under its jurisdiction for one-way traffic.
      (2)   Signs required. Whenever any ordinance of the village designates
any one-way street or alley, the corporate authorities shall cause to be placed
and maintained signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
      (3)   Duty of driver. Vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
   (B)   Rotary traffic island. A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic
island must be driven only to the right of such island.
   (C)   Drive to right; crossing barriers or dividers.
      (1)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic control devices or police officers.
      (2)   No vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any such dividing
space, barrier, or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier,
or dividing section or space, or at a crossover or intersection as established
by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
   (A)   Drive within lane. A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable
entirely within a single lane, and shall not be moved from such until the
driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Three lanes with two-way traffic movement. Upon a roadway which is
divided into three lanes and provides for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and
passing another vehicle traveling in the same direction when such center lane
is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for making a left
turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic
moving in the same direction that the vehicle is proceeding and such allocation
is designated by official traffic control devices.
   (C)   Traffic control devices.
      (1)   Official traffic control devices may be erected directing specified
traffic to use a designated lane, or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
      (2)   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadways, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 REVERSING TRAFFIC MOVEMENT.
   The corporate authorities may determine and designate parts of streets or
specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one
direction during one period and the opposite direction during another period of
the day, and shall cause to be placed and maintained appropriate markings,
signs, barriers, or other devices to give notice thereof. The corporate
authorities may erect signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic
moving in a particular direction regardless of the centerline of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 71.07 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   Closeness to be reasonable. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not
follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due
regard for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of
the highway.
   (B)   Specific restrictions for certain vehicles. The driver of any motor
vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle, when
traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or residence district, shall not
follow within 300 feet of another motor vehicle of the second division or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle. The provisions of this division (B) shall not
be construed to prevent overtaking and passing, nor shall the same apply upon
any lane specially designated for use by motor vehicles of the second division.
   (C)   Caravans and motorcades. Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway
outside of a business or residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether
or not towing other vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space
between each such vehicle, or combination of vehicles, so as to enable any
other vehicle to enter and occupy such space without danger. This provision
shall not apply to funeral processions.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Passing vehicles. Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite
directions, except as provided in §
71.03(A), shall pass each other to the right, and upon roadways having widths
for not more than one line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give
to the other at least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as
nearly as possible.
   (B)   Overtaking vehicle on the left. The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the
left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an
unobstructed lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
      (4)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this section and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
      (5)   No vehicle, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, may be
driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions (except
when said vehicle is upon a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed
pavement of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each
direction when such movement can be made with safety):
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction; or
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or, traversing any,
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
   (C)   Overtaking vehicle on the right.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         (b)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width of two or more lines of moving vehicles
in each direction; and
         (c)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving traffic.
      (2)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight feet.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
   (D)   No passing zones. The corporate authority may determine those portions
of any highway where overtaking and passing, or driving to the left of the
roadway, would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones. When the
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof. Where
signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone, as set forth in
this division (D), no driver may at any time drive on the left side of the
roadway within the no passing zone or on the left side of any pavement striping
designed to mark such no passing zone throughout its length.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Signs required. Whenever any ordinance of the village designates and
describes a yield right-of-way street, it shall be the duty of the corporate
authorities to place and maintain yield signs on each and every street
intersecting such yield right-of-way street.
   (B)   Duty of driver. The driver of a vehicle, in obedience to a yield
right-of-way sign, shall reduce the speed of his or her vehicle to not more
than ten mph, and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have
entered the intersecting street either from the right or left, or which are
approaching so closely on such intersection as to constitute a hazard; but said
driver, having so yielded, may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 71.10 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 DRAG RACING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle,
to participate in drag racing. For the purpose of this section, DRAG RACING
means the act of two or more individuals competing or racing on any street or
highway in the village in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is
beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver, and
the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or
overtaking him or her, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street or highway in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Authority to install traffic control devices; specifications
   
72.02   Presumption of legality
   
72.03   Disobedience to, avoidance of, traffic control devices
   
72.04   Damage to traffic control devices or structures
   
72.05   Unauthorized signs and devices; obstructions
   
72.06   Designation of safety zones, crosswalks, traffic lanes
   
72.07   Traffic control signal legend
   
72.08   School crossing signals
   
72.09   Enforcement
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Traffic signs and signals generally. The corporate authority shall
place and maintain official traffic control devices when and as required under
the this title to make effective the provisions hereof, and may place and
maintain such additional official traffic control devices as it may deem
necessary to regulate, warn, or guide traffic under this title or under state
law. All signs and signals established by the direction of the corporate
authorities shall conform to the “Illinois Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.”
   (B)   Stop and yield signs. The corporate authority, with reference to
highways under its jurisdiction, may designate through highways and erect stop
signs or yield signs at specified entrances thereto, or may designate any
intersection as a stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop
signs or yield signs at one or more entrances to such intersection. Every stop
sign and yield sign shall be located as near as practicable to the nearest line
of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no
crosswalk, then as close as practicable to the nearest line of the intersecting
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 72.02 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 72.03 DISOBEDIENCE TO, AVOIDANCE OF, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Disobedience prohibited. No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Avoidance prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the
roadway and travel across private property to avoid an official traffic control
device.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 DAMAGE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control
device, or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any
public highway or any bridge, culvert, sign, signpost, or structure upon or
used, or constructed, in connection with any public highway for the protection
thereof, or for protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willful
unreasonable use thereof, or by willful careless driving or use of any vehicle
thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, or destruction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND DEVICES; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Imitation traffic control signs; obstruction to view. No person shall
place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized
sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or
resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic; nor shall any person place,
maintain, or display upon a highway or upon public or private property in view
of any highway any other sign, tree, bush, or foliage which hides from view or
interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Advertising on traffic control signs prohibited. No person may place
or maintain, nor may any public authority permit, upon or in view of any
highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Flashing or rotating signs. No person shall maintain or operate in
view of any street or highway any flashing or rotating beacon or light.
   (D)   Nuisance declared; removal. Every such prohibited sign, signal,
marking, tree, bush, or foliage is a public nuisance and may be removed without
notice by any police officer or under his or her direction and supervision.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 DESIGNATION OF SAFETY ZONES, CROSSWALKS, TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Safety zones. The corporate authority may establish safety zones of
such kind and character and at such places as it may deem necessary for the
protection of pedestrians.
   (B)   Crosswalks. The corporate authority may designate and maintain, by
appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the roadway,
crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
   (C)   Traffic lanes. The corporate authority may mark traffic lanes upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regulated alignment of traffic is
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6)
§ 72.07 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
different colored lights successively one at a time, or with lighted green
arrows, only the following colors shall be used, and such terms and lights and
lighted green arrows shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Circular green (alone).
      (1)   Vehicles.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight
through, or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either
such turn.
         (b)   But vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian control signal as provided under this section.
   (B)   Steady yellow.
      (1)   Vehicles.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red indication (stop) will be exhibited immediately thereafter or the related
green movement is being terminated, and shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at the intersection.
         (b)   But if such stop cannot be made in safety, a vehicle may be
driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, are thereby advised that
there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and no pedestrian shall start
to cross.
   (C)   Steady red (alone).
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal must stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may
be indicated by a clearly visible line or, if none, before entering the
intersection, and shall remain standing until the green indication is shown
unless otherwise directed by a sign or lighted green arrow.
      (2)   Pedestrians. No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
roadway unless he or she can do so safely without interfering with any
vehicular traffic or unless a separate “Walk” indication is shown.
   (D)   Green straight through arrow (alone).
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight
through, but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield
the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians legally within the
intersection at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the
roadway within the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed
otherwise by a pedestrian signal.
   (E)   Green turn arrow (with circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or
green straight through arrow).
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall comply with the
meaning of the circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or green straight
through arrow indication as if it were shown alone; except, that such vehicular
traffic may cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by
the green turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians facing such signal shall comply with the
meaning of the circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or straight through
arrow indication as if it were shown alone, unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal.
   (F)   Flashing signals. Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used,
they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (G)   Lane control signals. Whenever lane control signals are used in
conjunction with official signs, they shall have the following meanings.
      (1)   Opaque arrow on green, green arrow on opaque, or green alone.
Drivers of vehicles facing such signals are permitted to use the lane or lines
over which the signal is displayed, provided no intersection traffic control
signal gives a stop indication affecting the lane or lanes involved.
      (2)   Opaque “X” on red, red “X” on opaque, or red alone. Drivers of
vehicles facing such signal are prohibited from using the lane over which the
signal is displayed.
   (H)   Pedestrian control signals. Whenever special pedestrian control
signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such signals
shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   “Walk.” While the “Walk” indication is illuminated, pedestrians
facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the
signal, and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)   “Don’t Walk.” While the “Don’t Walk” indication is illuminated,
either steady or flashing, no pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partly completed his or
her crossing during the “Walk” indication shall proceed to a sidewalk or to a
safety island if one is provided.
   (I)   Signals other than at intersections.
      (1)   In the event an official traffic signal or flashing red signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this division (I) or division (F) above shall be applicable, except as to
provisions which by their nature can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be at a sign or a marking on the pavement
indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of such sign or
marking, a stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Description. A school crossing signal shall be a permanently mounted,
electrically operated signal device, equipped with two-way, two-color (red and
yellow) signal heads, together with a diamond shaped, single face sign reading
“School Crossing,” by which, at predetermined times and when actuated by push
button, traffic is directed to stop so as to permit school children to cross
the street or highway safely.
   (B)   Duty of driver.
      (1)   Whenever the red lens of a school crossing signal is illuminated by
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and pedestrians within or entering
the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right-of-way over
vehicles so stopped.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians
entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection may proceed, but
shall also yield the right-of-way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at
the intersection.
      (3)   In the event a school crossing signal is erected and maintained at
a place other than an intersection, provisions of this division (B) shall be
applicable, except as to provisions which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8)
§ 72.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Exemption from enforcement; improper placement. No provision of this
title for which official traffic control devices are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official device is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Interpretation of provisions. Whenever a particular section does not
state that official traffic control devices are required, such section shall be
effective even though no devices are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit on Kankakee Street between its intersection with State
Route 129 to the south and the corporate limits of the village to the north,
all in the village, County of Will and County of Grundy, in the state, shall be
35 mph, and that appropriate signs, including warning signs, be erected as
needed.
   (B)   Any person, company, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this schedule shall be punished by a fine of not less than $75
nor more than $750 for each violation.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 8-27-2007)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   FIREWORKS
      
92.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Health and Sanitation
   
90.001   Prohibited acts generally
   
90.002   Accumulation of waste, debris; fire hazards
   
90.003   Cemeteries and burials
Nuisances
   
90.015   Nuisances enumerated
   
90.016   Junkyards and junk dealers
   
90.017   Nuisances prohibited; abatement
   
90.018   Abatement of nuisances
Plants and Weeds
   
90.030   Nuisance declared; weeds prohibited
   
90.031   Height restrictions
   
90.032   Barberry bushes
   
90.033   Abatement procedures
   
90.034   Abatement costs a lien
   
90.035   Foreclosure of lien; sale of property
Abandoned, Inoperative Vehicles
   
90.050   Definitions
   
90.051   Abandonment unlawful
   
90.052   Police to be notified
   
90.053   Chief of Police may order removal
   
90.054   Police to keep record
   
90.055   Vehicle registration records
   
90.056   Identifying vehicle owner
   
90.057   Owner may reclaim
   
90.058   Vehicle to be sold at public sale
   
90.059   Registered owner not identified
   
90.060   Motor vehicle reclaimed
   
90.061   Proceeds from sale
   
90.062   Liability disclaimer
   
90.063   Junked vehicle not to remain on property
   
90.064   Authorization to remove vehicle
Open Burning
   
90.075   Open burning
 
   
90.999   Penalty
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 90.001 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall commit or do any act which endangers the public health or
results in annoyance or discomfort to the public.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.002 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE, DEBRIS; FIRE HAZARDS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of any dwelling, store, shop,
or other building in the village to prevent the accumulation of large
quantities of ashes, shavings, wastepaper, kindling, or other combustible
materials from which there is an immediate danger of fire. No such ashes,
shavings, wastepaper, kindling, or other combustible materials shall be
accumulated or piled within ten feet of any such building.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 CEMETERIES AND BURIALS.
   No person shall establish a cemetery or bury any person within the village
limits or within a mile thereof, except in an established cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
NUISANCES
§ 90.015 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Obstruction or pollution of watercourses. It shall be unlawful and a
public nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct or pollute any
watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
   (B)   Stagnant ponds. Any stagnant pool of water in the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to permit any such nuisance to remain or exist on any property
under his, hers, or its control.
   (C)   Deposit of solid wastes. No person, firm, or corporation shall deposit
anywhere in the village any piles of refuse, garbage, tires, used lumber, parts
of dismantled cars, trucks, trailers, or mobile homes; or old, used, or scrap
copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, track, iron, steel, and other old
or scrap ferrous and nonferrous material, unless such piles of items are
deposited for roadside pick up by a disposal company on a regular, weekly
basis.
   (D)   Dangerous premises. No person, firm, or corporation shall permit any
building, structure, lot, or place to remain in a condition which is dangerous
to the public health in any way. Any such building, structure, lot, or place is
declared to be a nuisance.
   (E)   Animal carcasses. No person shall deposit anywhere in the village any
uncovered piles of carcasses of dead animals. Such carcasses must be buried at
least two feet below the surface of the ground or otherwise properly disposed
of. Any uncovered piles of animal carcasses are declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 89-08, passed 5-22-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 92
   Dangerous buildings, see §§
150.35 through
150.39
§ 90.016 JUNKYARDS AND JUNK DEALERS.
   (A)   Junk dealer business prohibited. No person shall operate or carry on
the business of junk dealer, or keep any junk shop, store, or place for the
purchase or sale of junk, rags, old rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass,
copper, or empty bottles in the village.
   (B)   Junkyards.
      (1)   Definition. A JUNKYARD is the keeping of junk and shall apply to
the dismantling of used motor vehicles or trailers, burning of combustible
parts thereof, and storage of material of any nature to disgrace the looks of
the village.
      (2)   Nuisance declared. Junkyards, as defined in division (B)(1) above,
are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
      (3)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Inspections of private lots shall be the job of the Police
Chief. It shall be his or her job to bring such violations to the attention of
the Village Board.
         (b)   The ordinance officer shall be the Village Board. It shall be on
their orders to the Chief of Police to warn violators and prosecute.
         (c)   It shall be the job of the Village Clerk to send 30-day notices
before prosecution starts to anyone in violation of this division (B). Such
notice shall be hand given or delivered by certified mail to the violator. It
shall be the Village Board who shall authorize such notices to be sent.
      (4)   Objections. Objections to any part of this division (B), on behalf
of the violator, can be submitted in written form to the Village Clerk. Such
written form must be submitted within ten days of receiving such notice of a
violation. After the Clerk receives such written form, he or she shall
immediately inform the Village Board of Trustees of such objection, and an
immediate (within 48 hours) Board of Trustees hearing shall be set.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 NUISANCES PROHIBITED; ABATEMENT.
   No person shall permit or maintain the existence of any nuisance on any
property under his or her control. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to
abate any nuisances existing in the village, whether such nuisance is one
specifically recognized by ordinance or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   A Will County or Grundy County police officer shall notify the owner of the
premises on which a nuisance exists or the person causing or maintaining a
nuisance to abate the nuisance within such reasonable time as is specified in
the notice. If such person fails to abate the nuisance within the time stated,
he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided for a violation of this
code. In addition thereto, the village may proceed to abate the nuisance
against the property on which the nuisance is located. The village may file a
notice of lien for the charge against the property.
(Ord. 09-03, passed 8-25-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 90.030 NUISANCE DECLARED; WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other
weeds of like kind, found growing on any lot or tract of land in the village
are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any
such weeds to grow or remain in such place.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.031 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit weeds, grass, or plants, other
than bushes, trees, corn, beans, or other agricultural crops, flowers, or other
ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the
village. Any such plants exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.032 BARBERRY BUSHES.
   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth within the
village of the bush of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as Barberis vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.033 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice to abate. It shall be the duty of the President or Health
Officer to serve, or cause to be served, a notice, in writing by registered
mail, upon the owner, agent, occupant, or person in possession, charge, or
control of any such premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, and to demand an abatement of
the nuisance within ten days.
   (B)   Abatement by village; costs. If the person so served does not abate
the nuisance within ten days after such notice, the President or Health Officer
shall cause the summary abatement of such nuisance and shall keep an account of
the expense thereof, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner
or occupant.
   (C)   Cost of abatement. The standard abatement cost for mowing and weed
abatement shall be $200, or such greater amount as the Board may, in its
discretion, deem appropriate
   (D)   Notice. The property owner will receive one written notice per
incident and per calendar year on violations, and after their initial ten days
has expired the village shall abate the violation and put a $200 lien on his,
hers, or their property, within the calendar year if there are multiple
violations, the fines will be on a progressive scale of $200, $400, $600, and
$800, and the like, on which a lien will be filed.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996; Ord. 17-03, passed 10-24-
2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.034 ABATEMENT COSTS A LIEN.
   Charges for such weed, grass, or plant removal shall be a lien on the
premises. Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it
has been rendered, the Clerk may file, with the Recorder of Deeds of Will or
Grundy County, a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, and the
date the weeds, grass, or plants were cut, and a notice that the village claims
a lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his or her address is known; provided, however, that failure
of the Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure
of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose on
the lien for such charges as provided in the following section.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) (Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996)
§ 90.035 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN; SALE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed, grass, or plant cutting
charges shall be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such
sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case
with the foreclosure of statutory liens.
   (B)   Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the village. The
Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute proceedings in
the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over such matter
against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid for 60 days after
it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996)
ABANDONED, INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
§ 90.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every alley, street,
or other way publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle for which, for a period of at least
seven days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or in which
the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. Further, INOPERABLE VEHICLES shall mean any vehicle which is not
licensed or does not have a valid village sticker.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than by human power, designed
to travel along the ground by the use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides,
and to transport persons or property, or pull machinery.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.051 ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part
thereof, on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle or any part thereof on private or public property, other than a
highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in this municipality is
unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part thereof, so abandoned on
private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the
Chief of Police after a waiting period of seven days or more has expired.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.052 POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this state not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Municipal
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, and maintain a record of
the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.053 CHIEF OF POLICE MAY ORDER REMOVAL.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this municipality for ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
   (C)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.054 POLICE TO KEEP RECORD.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series name, body style,
vehicle identification number, and license plate year and number displayed on
the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location
towed from, location towed to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.055 VEHICLE REGISTRATION RECORDS.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner, or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information of the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner, or legally
entitled person, advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition
be made, and setting forth public sale information.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.056 IDENTIFYING VEHICLE OWNER.
   When the registered owner, or other person legally entitled to the
possession, of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner, or other person legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the
State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having
custody of the vehicle for notification of owner.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.057 OWNER MAY RECLAIM.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner, or other person legally entitled to
its possession, may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.058 VEHICLE TO BE SOLD AT PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner, or other person known by the
Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of
the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to
be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim
the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.059 REGISTERED OWNER NOT IDENTIFIED.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner, or other person legally
entitled to the possession, of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of
seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this subchapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein, or disposed of in
the manner authorized by this subchapter, without notice to the registered
owner, or other person legally entitled to the possession, of the vehicle.
   (B)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded
as specified by this subchapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of
ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the
registered owner by the U.S. Mail, public service or in person for a
determination of disposition, and for an examination of the State Police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk only.
   (C)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.060 MOTOR VEHICLE RECLAIMED.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this subchapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by
the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.061 PROCEEDS FROM SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this subchapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the
treasury.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.062 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   Any police officer, or towing service owner, operator, or employee, shall
not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the
registered owner, former registered owner, or owner’s legal representative, or
any other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle, when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 90.063 JUNKED VEHICLE NOT TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property,
are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
whether an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow an
inoperable vehicle to remain on such property for a period longer than seven
days; no person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the village
for a longer time than seven days; except that this subchapter shall not apply
with regard to a vehicle within a building when not in use, to operable
historic vehicles over 25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle at the premises
of place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.064 AUTHORIZATION TO REMOVE VEHICLE.
   The Chief of Police, or any member of the Police Department designated by
the Chief, is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at
any place within the village which is in violation of this subchapter. Such
vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.075 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall permit the emission of dense
smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, burner, or any other agency in the
village as to cause annoyance or discomfort to any resident of the village. The
burning of tires, wire coating, inner tubes, and rubber items of any kind is
prohibited. No person, firm, or corporation shall start, allow, or continue to
allow the burning or smoldering of any material between sun-down and sun-up,
unless the burning of any such material is necessary for heating enclosed
structures or for cooking (campfires and cook-out fires are permitted). Leaves
and trees, and general yard clean-up, fires are permitted in the hours listed
in this division (A).
   (B)   This subchapter allowing residents to conduct fires does not excuse a
person from the consequences, damages, or injuries which may result therefrom,
nor does it exempt any person from regulations promulgated by the State
Pollution Control Agency, or any other governmental unit exercising
jurisdiction in matters of pollution or fire hazard regulation.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 3-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
90.002 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99. The imposition of this penalty for any violation hereof shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue. The application of this penalty shall
not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
90.015 through
90.018 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
90.030 through
90.035 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which such violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.050 through
90.064 shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
90.075 shall be fined not less than $75 or no more than $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 97-04, passed 9-23-1996; Ord. 05-06, passed
3-28-2005; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-23-2016)
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS
Section
   
91.01   Fireworks
   
91.02   Storage of explosives
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   When permitted. No person shall discharge or set off any fireworks, or
give or exhibit any pyrotechnic displays in the village; except, that public
displays which are licensed may be given at any time permitted by the license.
   (B)   Public displays. No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics
shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the Village
Clerk. All such public displays shall be under the supervision of a person who
has applied for and been granted a license, shown proof of insurance and
submitted the required bond, and shall be superintended by the Chief of Police
or some member of the Police Department assigned to this duty by him or her.
   (C)   Prohibited fireworks. No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge
or set off in the village, or keep in the village with the intention of doing
so, any FIREWORKS, which means and includes any explosive composition or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by
explosion, combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky
rockets, Roman candles, bombs, or other fireworks of like construction, and any
fireworks containing any explosive compound; or any tablets or other device
containing any explosive substance, or containing combustible substances
producing visual effects. The term FIREWORKS shall not include snake or glow
worm pellets; smoke devices; sparklers; trick noisemakers known as “party
poppers,” “booby traps,” “snappers,” “trick matches,” “cigarette loads,” and
“auto burglar alarms;” toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in
which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grain or less of explosive compound
are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic
caps which contain less than 0.25 grain of explosive mixture, the sale and use
of which shall be permitted at all times. Provided, however, that the fireworks
mentioned in this division (C) may be used in any licensed public pyrotechnic
display under proper supervision.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   All explosives must be kept or stored in accordance with the rules enforced
by the State Fire Marshal with regard to the same, subject to the conditions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99. The imposition of one penalty for any violation hereof shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue. The application of this penalty shall
not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Cruelty to animals
   
92.02   Dangerous animals
   
92.03   Diseased animals
   
92.04   Noisy animals
   
92.05   Prohibitions and restrictions regarding certain animals
Dogs
   
92.20   Title
   
92.21   Definition
   
92.22   License and vaccination
   
92.23   Running at large prohibited; leash requirements
   
92.24   Impoundment and redemption provisions
   
92.25   Dogs that bite
   
92.26   Noisy, dangerous dogs; cruel treatment
Chickens
   
92.40   Keeping of chickens
   
92.41   Construction standards
   
92.42   Fees
   
92.43   Definitions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the village in any way.
The Will and Grundy Counties Animal Control Guidelines will be adhered to by
the village.
   (B)   Any person who cruelly treats any animal shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal of any kind to
run at large within the village, and no person shall lead any such animal with
a chain, rope, or other appliance, whether such animal is muzzled or unmuzzled,
in any street, alley, highway, or public place within the corporate limits of
the village. Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the
eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the Village
Clerk, or other authorized person.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 87-05, passed 6-8-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of human or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of a police officer, or other authorized person.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of a police officer, or other authorized
person, to secure such disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of
affected premises as to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion
or infection, except in cases where the state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 87-05, passed 6-8-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by loud
noises at any time of the day or night.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS REGARDING CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   Keeping certain animals prohibited. No person shall keep any cattle,
swine, horses, ponies, sheep, goats, ducks, guineas, or other fowl, except
poultry, within the village limits.
   (B)   Running at large, tying to graze. No person shall permit any cattle,
swine, horses, sheep, or goats to run at large in the village. Any such animal
running at large in any public place in the village shall be impounded in the
manner provided in §
92.24. It shall further be unlawful to picket or to tie any such animal in any
of the streets of the village for the purpose of grazing or feeding.
   (C)   Horses on streets. No person shall ride, or cause to be driven before
any vehicle attached thereto, any horse, pony, mule, donkey, or the like upon
any public highway, street, road, alley, or any village property; except, that
said animals may be ridden or driven by the person in charge thereof upon a
public highway, street, or road between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.,
and then only when done so as not to obstruct traffic or endanger the lives and
safety of other persons. Every person in control of such an animal shall
immediately pick up and remove any and all droppings from said animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 90-02, passed 11-14-1989; Ord. 91-03, passed 9-24-
1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOGS
§ 92.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Dog Ordinance” of the village and may
be referred to by that title.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-1)
§ 92.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Includes any person or persons or corporation owning, harboring, or
keeping more than ten days a dog or dogs within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-2)
§ 92.22 LICENSE AND VACCINATION.
   (A)   License and vaccination required; exemption. No person shall own,
possess, or harbor a dog or cat in the village without first having such dog or
cat vaccinated against rabies and without first having obtained a license
therefor in compliance with the provisions herein set forth; except, that a
license or vaccination shall not be required for dogs and cats under the age of
three months.
   (B)   Unlicensed, untagged dogs and cats. All dogs or cats found in the
village without being licensed or without the proper metallic check or tag
attached thereto, as herein required, are hereby declared a public nuisances
and subject to being disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; LEASH REQUIREMENTS.
   No dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall be allowed upon the streets of
the village or in public places unless on a suitable, dependable lead not
longer than eight feet, except on the owner’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-4) (Ord. 97.02, passed 7-22-1996; Ord. 07-02, passed 7-24-
2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Impoundment of dogs; notice. The appropriate County Animal Control
Officer shall seize and impound any licensed or unlicensed dog running at
large, and shall notify the owner of such dog by telephone or other means and
not later than on the day following that on which the dog is seized that said
dog has been seized and is impounded awaiting redemption on or before a certain
specified date, namely, three days after the date of seizure.
   (B)   Redemption of impounded dogs; costs. No such dog shall be redeemed by
or released to anyone except the owner, or his or her duly authorized agent,
and then only upon the payment of the appropriate fees as determined by Will or
Grundy County.
   (C)   Disposal of unredeemed dogs. If an impounded dog is not redeemed by
and released to the owner and the required fees and costs paid on or before the
third calendar day after the day of seizure, said dog shall be put to death
humanely or delivered to the animal welfare league or other humane agency,
except as provided herein, and except that a dog impounded for being, or
reasonably suspected of being, rabid or having been bitten or infected by a
rabid dog shall be held for a period of 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 DOGS THAT BITE.
   (A)   When any dog has bitten a human being, such dog shall be seized by a
police officer or any other person or agency authorized to do so by local,
county, or state rules, regulations, or laws, and shall be impounded for a
period not exceeding 15 days in such nearby veterinary hospital, clinic, or
facility, or with any other agency as may be designated by the seizing person,
to determine if such dog is rabid.
   (B)   If found not rabid, such dog shall be returned to the owner at the
expiration of 15 days, and the owner of such dog shall be responsible for the
actual cost of any such impounding.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-6) (Ord. 87-05, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 92.26 NOISY, DANGEROUS DOGS; CRUEL TREATMENT.
   Any person who shall keep or harbor, or own, any dog which, by loud or
frequent or habitual barking, yelping, or howling, or by constant threat of
attacking and biting, shall cause annoyance to the neighborhood or to people
passing to and from upon the streets, or any person who shall refuse to deliver
to any authorized person his or her dog or dogs when properly requested to do
so under the provisions of this subchapter, or any person keeping, harboring,
or owning a dog or who shall be cruel or inhumane to a dog, said cruelty and
inhumanity consisting of beating, torturing, mutilating, cruelly killing, and
failure to provide food, drink, and shelter, or abandoning any dog, shall be
punished as set forth in §
92.99(C).
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
CHICKENS
§ 92.40 KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Residents may only keep a chicken coop on a single-family lot; no
chicken coop will be permitted on a multi-family lot. If the resident is a
renter, the village must have a letter of approval on file from the landlord
permitting a chicken coop on his, her, or their property. The landowner is
responsible for making sure everything is up to code.
   (B)   No more than four chickens per coop are allowed on lots less than one
acre. No more than eight chickens are allowed on lots more than an acre.
   (C)   The minimum lot size to have chickens is one-half an acre.
   (D)   No roosters.
   (E)   All chickens must be housed in a roofed coop that is stationary,
secure, and enclosed in a way to contain chickens. Only one coop per residence.
   (F)   A six-foot privacy fence must be maintained around the entire property
and must be kept in good condition.
   (G)   An outside run will be permitted, but must be permanently attached to
the coop and must be enclosed to not allow chickens to escape.
   (H)   Chicken feed must be contained in a rodent proof container. Coops and
pens must be kept clean and sanitary and free of excrement.
   (I)   The coop cannot be constructed within 30 feet of any main building on
an adjacent lot.
   (J)   The coop and pens must be setback five from all property lines.
   (K)   The butchering or slaughtering of chickens is prohibited.
(Ord. 22-12, passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Coops shall be constructed in a manner to be moisture resistant, and
either raised off the ground or placed on a hard surface such as concrete,
patio blocks, or gravel.
   (B)   The walls and roofs must be designed to withstand all natural forces
such as wind, rain, and snow.
   (C)   The coop cannot be constructed in an easement.
(Ord. 22-12, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 92.42 FEES.
   (A)   There will be a $100 permit fee. This fee must be paid prior to
construction.
   (B)   There will be a $50 yearly license.
   (C)   The resident who wishes to keep chickens will be subject to a yearly
inspection by the code enforcer. If there is a complaint, an inspection will be
conducted at anytime within the year.
   (D)   The permit is not transferable. If the resident moves, the permit will
be void.
   (E)   Failure to allow a yearly or a complaint inspection will result in the
license being revoked.
(Ord. 22-12, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 92.43 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOP. An enclosed structure housing chickens consisting of a covered inside
enclosure used for housing and protecting chickens from weather and predators.
   HEN. The female species gallus domesticus, commonly known as CHICKENS.
   PENS. An enclosure connected to a coop for the purpose of allowing chickens
to leave the coop while remaining in a predator-safe environment.
   ROOSTER. An adult male domestic chicken.
(Ord. 22-12, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6)
   (B)   (1)   Any person permitting his or her dog or dogs to run free upon
the streets of the village or in public places will be served a notice by the
Village President or the Health and Safety Trustee to appear before the Village
Clerk at a given time and place to pay a penalty of $50 for each offense.
      (2)   (a)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during on or which a violation occurs.
         (b)   Any additional violation of this section shall be subject to a
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-4)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
92.26 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalty
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-7)
   (D)   (1)   Failure to comply with any provisions of §§
92.40 through
92.43, or any other legal requirements, or knowingly submitting false or
misleading information or withholding information, will terminate the license
to keep chickens.
      (2)   Any person found in violation is subject to a fine of not less than
$100 for each offense. Each day the offense occurs and/or not corrected is
deemed a separate offense. Failure to pay fines will result in liens being
filed on the property.
(Ord. 22-12, passed 3-25-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES AND PERMITS
      
111.   ADVERTISING
      
112.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
113.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
115.   TOBACCO ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
110.01   Applications for licenses and permits; forms, signatures
   
110.02   Investigation of application
   
110.03   Fees
   
110.04   Termination of licenses
   
110.05   Building and premises requirements
   
110.06   Frontage consent requirements
   
110.07   Transfer of license; change of location
   
110.08   License to be posted
   
110.09   Nuisance businesses prohibited
   
110.10   Inspections; samples and tests
   
110.11   Revocation of license or permit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS; FORMS, SIGNATURES.
   (A)   Filing and contents.
      (1)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance
shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk in absence of a provision to the
contrary.
      (2)   Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit
or license desired, the location to be used, if any, time covered, and fee to
be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may
be needed for the proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing of
the permit or license applied for.
   (B)   Forms. Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor,
shall be prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Signatures. Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of
the President and the Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.02 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the
ordinances of the village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such
application to the proper officer for making such investigation within 48 hours
of the time of such receipt.
   (B)   The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving
the application or a copy thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fees. In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees
and charges for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time
application therefor is made to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Proration of fees. When a business is commenced after the expiration
of part of the license year, an annual license for the balance of the year will
be issued for a proportionate part of the annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.04 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year of
the village in which they are issued where no provision to the contrary is
made.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 110.05 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no
permit issued for any thing or act, if the premises and building to be used for
the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village.
   (B)   No such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any
business or performance of any act which would involve a violation of Title XV.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 FRONTAGE CONSENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Petition procedures.
      (1)   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required
as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business, or occupation or the location
of any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Village Clerk when signed.
      (2)   Consents, once given and filed, shall not be withdrawn, and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
      (4)   Each consent, when filed, shall be accompanied by the affidavit of
the person securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was
properly secured and written on, and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
   (B)   Scope of provisions relative to zoning. The frontage consent
requirements contained in this chapter shall not be construed as amending or
changing any zoning ordinance or provision of the village, and no such
provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business, or act is prohibited by any
zoning ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 TRANSFER OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   Transfer of license. Licenses are non-transferable.
   (B)   Change of location.
      (1)   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided ten days’ notice thereof is given to
the Village Clerk, in the absence of any provisions to the contrary.
      (2)   Provided, further, that the building, zoning, and frontage consent
requirements of the ordinances are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 110.08 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his or her license posted at all times in a prominent place on
the premises used for such business.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 110.09 NUISANCE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 INSPECTIONS; SAMPLES AND TESTS.
   (A)   Entry powers. Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in
connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided
for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance
with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the
duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected,
to admit thereto, for the purpose of making such inspection, any officer or
employee of the village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection
at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Submission of samples. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or
material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance
provision to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of any licensee to
give to any authorized officer or employee of the village requesting the same
sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon
request.
   (C)   Violation; license revocation. In addition to any other penalty which
may be provided, the President may revoke the license of any licensed
proprietor of any licensed business in the village who refuses to permit any
such officer or employee, who is authorized to make such inspection or take
such sample, to make inspection or take an adequate sample of the desired
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his or her duty in making such inspection. Provided, that no
license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the
licensee or person in charge of the premises in the name of the village stating
that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the
inspection or obtain the sample.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10)
§ 110.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the President
at any time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the ordinance relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit, or to the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
   (A)   Hearing. Within ten days after the village officials have acted, the
President shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   (B)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of hearing.
      (2)   Such notice shall be sent to the licensee or permittee by certified
mail at his or her last known address or personally served at least five days
prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing procedures. At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The President shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   (D)   Causes for revocation. Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the
President and Village Board of Trustees after notice and hearing, as provided
in divisions (B) and (C) above, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village; and/or
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any
interference with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the
performance of his or her duties in making such inspections, as provided in the
village code.
   (E)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Right to appeal.
         (a)   Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village to issue a
license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall have the
right to appeal the village’s decision to the Village Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request
to the President within five days of the action of the village which is
appealed.
      (2)   Village Board of Trustees consideration. The Village Board of
Trustees shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at
which time the applicant shall be entitled to present his or her appeal orally
or in writing. The Village Board of Trustees shall act on the appeal within
seven days of the hearing, and shall either uphold the action of the village or
shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which the village had denied,
or the reissuance of a license or permit which the village had revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Outdoor advertisers
   
111.02   Posting bills
   
111.03   Prohibited acts and conditions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS.
   (A)   Definition. The term OUTDOOR ADVERTISER, as used in this section, is
hereby defined to mean any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business
of placing, posting, or painting any advertisements, notices, or displays in or
on any place for the purpose of outdoor advertising so that the resultant
display is visible from any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in
the village.
   (B)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to
do business as such in the village without having first secured a license as
herein required; provided, that no license issued under this section shall be
construed so as to permit the use of any structures, natural or artificial,
which are located in any public street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place
for advertising purposes.
   (C)   License fee. The annual fee for such license shall be $25.
   (D)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   Use of billboards. No person shall post or maintain any
advertisement or sign on any billboard or signboard which does not fully
conform to the ordinances of the village.
      (2)   Unlawful advertising. It shall be unlawful for any outdoor
advertiser to post or display any advertisement of an obscene or immoral
character, or any advertisement tending to promote or cause a riot or breach of
the peace, or any advertisement for an unlawful gathering, or advertisements
for unlawful sale.
      (3)   Name of advertiser. It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser
to carry on his or her business, unless the name, address, and telephone number
of such advertiser is attached, displayed, or printed on all billboards or
signboards used by him or her, in such lettering as to be visible from a
distance of at least five feet from the notice or advertisement.
   (E)   Consent of owner. No person shall post any advertisement on any
premises without the consent of the owner or occupant of such premises. Such
consents must be in writing and filed with the Village Clerk.
   (F)   Maintenance requirements; refuse.
      (1)    It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of
outdoor advertising to permit any refuse resulting from the business to
accumulate anywhere in the village, except by placing it in properly
established refuse receptacles.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to permit any loose or flowing combustible
materials to hang from or be attached to any billboard or signboard, or other
place used for display or advertising purposes.
      (3)   All refuse resulting from the operation of the business must be
carefully gathered up and properly disposed of.
   (G)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this section shall not
be construed to apply to the posting of signs or notices by order of any court
or by any public officer in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Village permit requirements, see §
154.088(A)(2)
§ 111.02 POSTING BILLS.
   No person shall post any bills or advertisements on any public property
without the authority of the Village Board, and it shall be unlawful to post
any bill or advertisement on any property without the written consent of the
owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
133.04
§ 111.03 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Damage to advertisements. No person shall mutilate or disfigure any
lawful sign or advertisement in the village.
   (B)   Advertising unlawful businesses or items. No person shall advertise
any unlawful business or article in the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application for license
   
112.04   License fee; exemptions
   
112.05   Bond requirements
   
112.06   Building and premises requirements
   
112.07   Prohibited acts and conditions
Billiard Halls and Bowling Alleys
   
112.20   License required
   
112.21   Application for license; issuance
   
112.22   Prohibited hours of operation
   
112.23   Building and premises requirements
Public Dances
   
112.35   License required
   
112.36   Application for license; fee
   
112.37   Character of application
   
112.38   Exit requirements
   
112.39   Conduct at dances
Musical Entertainments
   
112.50   License required
   
112.51   Application for license; fee
   
112.52   Building and premises requirements
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC AMUSEMENT. Includes any occasion to which the public generally may be
admitted upon payment of admission fee or other charge, direct or indirect, to
witness or participate in any theatricals, exhibitions, movies, amusements,
circuses, carnivals, shows, dancing, or entertainment.
   PUBLIC PLACE OF AMUSEMENT. Includes any building, hall, theater, room,
place, or enclosure where public amusements are carried on.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall manage, conduct, produce, personally
operate, or carry on any public amusement or public place of amusement without
first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license should be made to the Village Clerk and, on his
or her approval of the application, a license shall be issued which shall
permit such exhibitions.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The license fee shall be 3% of the gross receipts derived from the
sale of admission tickets to such exhibitions, or $25 per day where deemed
necessary by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The license fees shall not apply to religious, educational, or
charitable organizations, or to any entertainment the entire net proceeds of
which are donated to charity.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4)
§ 112.04 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Every applicant for a license for a place of public amusement shall furnish
a bond to the village in a sum determined by the President and Board of
Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful observance of all ordinances of the
village relevant to said business or place, and all regulations properly
imposed thereon, and further conditioned to indemnify the village from any
liability which may be imposed upon it by reason of its existence, use, or
condition of repair of said place, or approaches thereto or sidewalks abutting
upon same.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5)
§ 112.05 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fire protection.
      (1)   Fire exits. Every public place of amusement shall provide adequate
exits in case of fire, and shall at all times keep aisles or approaches to the
said exits free and unobstructed.
      (2)   Inspections. Said places from time to time shall be inspected by
the Chief of Police, who shall immediately report to the Village Board any
conditions in said places which render the same hazardous in case of fire, and
the Board shall thereupon, by appropriate resolution, fix such requirements as
shall be necessary to remove said hazard, which said requirements shall
immediately be communicated to and carried out by the licensee.
   (B)   Sanitary conditions. Every public place of amusement shall be kept in
a clean and sanitary condition, with sufficient toilet and plumbing facilities
for the health, safety, and comfort of its patrons, and adequate ventilation
shall be provided to afford clean, fresh air to its patrons at all time.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Obscene, immoral exhibitions. No obscene, lewd, or immoral exhibitions
shall be given at any public place of amusement or included in any public
entertainment, nor shall there be any dancing of an immoral character committed
therein any of the above.
   (B)   Conduct of patrons. No person shall be admitted or permitted to remain
in any public place of amusement who is intoxicated, boisterous, or exhibiting
obscene, immoral, or lewd conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-7) Penalty, see §
112.99
BILLIARD HALLS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 112.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall use, maintain, or conduct any public place for the playing
of billiards, pool, or kindred games on billiard tables or supply, conduct, or
offer for the use of the public any ball or bowling alleys without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-1) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   An application for a license should be made to the Village Clerk, and on his
or her approval of said application, a license shall be issued which shall
permit the operation of such pool and billiard hall or bowling alley.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-2)
§ 112.22 PROHIBITED HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a public pool or billiard hall, or
bowling alley, or make the same available for business between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the morning on any weekday, nor between 1:00 a.m. and
12:00 p.m. noon on any Sunday.
   (B)   This section is not, however, to be construed to prohibit regular
employees from performing necessary work in or upon said premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-4) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   All billiard halls or bowling alleys shall be kept in a clean, healthful,
and sanitary condition and shall comply with all ordinances now in force, or
which shall be hereinafter enacted regulating the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 112.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or conduct a public dance in the village without
having first obtained a license therefor as is herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-1) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
provisions of the ordinances relating to licenses and shall specify the
location of the proposed dance or dances and the person or organization
sponsoring the same. The annual fee for public dances shall be as provided in §
112.04 .
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-2)
§ 112.37 CHARACTER OF APPLICATION.
   No such license shall be issued to a person who is not a person of good
moral character, nor to a corporation or organization which is not represented
in the village by a person of good moral character. It shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to make, or cause to be made, an investigation into the
character of each applicant and report the results of such investigation to the
Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-3) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.38 EXIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall conduct a public dance in any hall or place which is not
equipped with sufficient and adequate exits, and no hall or building which is
not provided with at least two exits of four feet or more in width shall be
used for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-4) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.39 CONDUCT AT DANCES.
   No person shall indulge in or permit any improper or immoral conduct at any
public dance.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENTS
§ 112.50 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the
public as a restaurant, eating place, tavern, or any public place where there
is music, whether instrumental or by mechanical reproduction in said place,
shall be required to have a license for said music or entertainment.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-1)
§ 112.51 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   An application for a license shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
on his or her approval of said application, a license shall be issued which
shall permit music in said place.
   (B)   The annual fee for said music shall be $50 (payable in advance in two
installments of $25 each), or as included with the liquor license fee. The
first installment will be due and payable with the application for license, and
the second installment will be due and payable six months thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-2)
§ 112.52 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fire prevention.
      (1)   Fire exits. Every public place where music is furnished shall
provide adequate exits in case of fire, and shall at all times keep the exits
free and unobstructed.
      (2)   Inspections. Said places from time to time shall be inspected by
the Chief of Police who shall immediately report to the Village Board any
conditions in the premises which render the same hazardous in case of fire, and
the Board shall thereupon, by appropriate resolution, fix such requirements as
shall be necessary to remove said hazard and which said requirements shall
immediately be communicated to and carried out by the licensee.
   (B)   Sanitary conditions. Every public place where music is furnished shall
be kept in a clean and sanitary condition for the health, safety, and comfort
of its patrons, and adequate ventilation shall be provided to afford clean,
fresh air to its patrons at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-3) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever operates any theatrical, theaters, exhibitions, movies,
circuses, carnivals, amusements, shows, dancing, or entertainment without
having a license therefor or whoever violates any provision of this chapter
where another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and every day shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-8)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall operate a pool and billiard
hall or bowling alley, as provided in §§
112.20 through
112.23, within the village limits, without first obtaining a license as
prescribed herein or who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
112.20 through
112.23, or any regulations prescribed hereunder, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-6)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
112.35 through
112.39 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-6)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
112.50 through
112.52, or whoever has music in any restaurant, eating place, tavern, or any
public place without having a license therefor, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and every day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-4)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Food Dealers
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application for license; fee
   
113.04   Revocation of license
Restaurants
   
113.15   Definitions
   
113.16   License required; restrictions on issuance; fee
   
113.17   Grading of restaurants
   
113.18   Poisonous substances
   
113.19   Disease conditions
   
113.20   Inspections
   
113.21   Suspension or revocation of license
   
113.22   Regrading; reinstatement of grading and license
   
113.23   Enforcement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
FOOD DEALERS
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD DEALER. Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in conducting or
operating any of the following businesses:
      (1)   Fruit store or establishment for the retail sale of fresh fruits
and/or berries;
      (2)   Grocery store or establishment for the sale at retail of butter,
cheese, vegetables, or other provisions;
      (3)   Ice cream parlor;
      (4)   Meat market or establishment for the retail sale of fresh meat,
poultry, or fish; and/or
      (5)   Retail general store or establishment for the sale at retail of any
malted, cereal, or vinous non-intoxicating beverages as defined by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-6A-1)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any food dealer to engage in or do business in the
village without having first secured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-6A-2) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in compliance with the
general provisions of this code relating thereto, and shall state the kind of
food intended to be sold or handled.
   (B)   The annual license fees for licenses shall be as follows:
 
Fruit store                                                             $25
Grocery store                                                           $25
Ice cream parlor                                                        $25
Meat market or establishment for retail sale of fresh meat, poultry, or $25
fish
 
(Prior Code, § 3-6A-3)
§ 113.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any such food dealer’s license may be revoked by the Village Board for any
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, or for any violations of any
other ordinance provisions relating to the conduct of the business, the
condition of the premises, or the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-6A-4)
RESTAURANTS
§ 113.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
serving, or who comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is
employed at any time in a room in which food or drink is prepared or served.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The authorized official of the Will County Health Department
and Grundy County Health Department.
   ITINERANT RESTAURANT. A restaurant operating for a temporary period in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or other similar
gathering.
   PERSON. Person, firm, corporation, or association.
   RESTAURANT. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order café,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, and all other public
eating and drinking establishments, as well as kitchens in which food and drink
are prepared for sale to the public.
   UTENSILS. Include any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils,
containers, or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during
storage, preparation, or serving.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-1)
§ 113.16 LICENSE REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE; FEE.
   No person shall operate a restaurant in the village who does not possess an
unrevoked license from the village and in whose place of business such license
is not posted in a conspicuous place. Only persons who comply with the
requirements of this subchapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such
license. The fee for this license shall be $25 per year
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-2) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 GRADING OF RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   The grading of all restaurants shall be based upon the following
standards:
      (1)   Grade A restaurants. All Grade A restaurants shall comply with all
of the following items of sanitation.
         (a)   Floors. The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is
stored, prepared, or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be of such
construction as to be easily cleaned, shall be smooth, and shall be kept clean
and in good repair.
         (b)   Walls and ceilings. Walls and ceilings of all rooms shall be
kept clean and in good repair. All walls and ceilings of rooms in which food or
drink is stored or prepared shall be finished in light color. The walls of all
rooms in which food or drink is prepared or utensils are washed shall have a
smooth, washable surface up to the level reached by splash or spray.
         (c)   Doors and windows. When flies are prevalent, all openings into
the outer air shall be effectively screened, and doors shall be self-closing,
unless other effective means are provided to prevent the entrance of flies.
         (d)   Lighting. All rooms in which food or drink is stored or
prepared, or in which utensils are washed, shall be well lighted.
         (e)   Ventilation. All rooms in which food or drink is stored,
prepared, or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be well ventilated.
         (f)   Toilet facilities.
            1.   Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate and
conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees conforming with the
ordinances of the village. In restaurants hereafter constructed, toilet rooms
shall not open directly into any room in which food, drink, or utensils are
handled or stored. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet
rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in good repair, and well lighted and
ventilated.
            2.   Adequate and convenient handwashing facilities shall be
provided, including warm water, soap, and approved sanitary towels. The use of
a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall resume work after using the
toilet rooms without first washing his or her hands.
            3.   Handwashing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by
employees.
         (g)   Water supply. The water supply shall be easily accessible to all
rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and shall be adequate
and of a safe, sanitary quality.
         (h)   Utensils and equipment.
            1.   All multi-use utensils and all show and display cases or
windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating equipment, sinks, and other
equipment or utensils used in connection with the operation of a restaurant
shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned, and shall be kept in good
repair.
            2.   All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods, and sinks, shall be kept clean
and free from dust, dirt, insects, and other contaminating material. All cloths
used by waiters, chefs, and other employees shall be clean. Single service
containers shall be used only once. All multi-use eating and drinking utensils
shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process after each use. All multi-use utensils used in the
preparation or serving of food and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and
effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process immediately following
the day’s operation. Drying cloths, if used, shall be clean and shall be used
for no other purpose.
            3.   After bactericidal treatment, no utensil shall be stored
except in a clean, dry place protected from flies, dust, or other
contamination, and no utensils shall be handled except in such a manner as to
prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single service utensils shall be
purchased only in sanitary containers, shall be stored therein in a clean, dry
place until used, and shall be handled in a sanitary manner.
         (i)   Waste disposal. All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and
all garbage and trash shall be kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as
not to become a nuisance.
         (j)   Food and beverages.
            1.   Refrigeration. All readily perishable food or drink shall be
kept at or below 50°F, except when being prepared or served. Wastewater from
refrigeration equipment shall be properly disposed of.
            2.   Wholesomeness. All food and drink shall be wholesome and free
from spoilage. All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream, and other frozen
desserts served shall be from sources approved by the Heath Officer. Milk and
fluid milk products shall be served in the original containers in which they
were received from the distributor, or from a bulk container equipped with an
approved dispensing device; provided, that this requirement shall not apply to
cream which may be served from the original bottle or from a dispenser approved
for such services. All oysters, clams, and mussels shall be from approved
sources.
            3.   Storage and display. All food and drink shall be so stored and
displayed as to be protected from dust, flies, vermin, unnecessary handling,
droplet infection, overhead leakage, and other contamination. No animals or
fowl shall be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is prepared or
stored. All means necessary for the elimination of flies shall be used.
         (k)   Cleanliness of employees. All employees shall wear clean outer
garments and shall keep their hands clean at all times while engaged in
handling food, drink, utensils, or equipment.
         (l)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   The premises of all restaurants shall be kept free of litter
or rubbish.
            2.   None of the operations connected with a restaurant shall be
conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters.
            3.   Adequate lockers or dressing rooms shall be provided for
employees’ clothing and shall be kept clean.
            4.   Soiled linens, coats, and aprons shall be kept in containers
provided for this purpose.
      (2)   Grade B restaurants. Grade B restaurants are those which fail to
comply with divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e), or (A)(1)
(l) above, but which conform with all other items of sanitation required for
Grade A restaurants.
      (3)   Grade C restaurants. Grade C restaurants are those which fail to
comply with either the Grade A or the Grade B requirements.
      (4)   Itinerant restaurants. Itinerant restaurants shall be constructed
and operated in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-3)
   (B)   (1)   Grades A and B, and itinerant, restaurants. From and after the
date on which this subchapter takes effect, no restaurant shall be operated
within the village or its police jurisdiction unless it conforms with the Grade
A or Grade B, or approved itinerant, restaurant requirements of this
subchapter; provided, that when any restaurant fails to qualify for any of
these grades, the Health Officer is authorized to revoke the license or, in
lieu thereof, to degrade the restaurant and permit its operation during a
temporary period as determined by the Will County Health Department or the
Grundy County Health Department.
      (2)   Temporary operation. Any restaurant given a C Grade shall be
permitted to operate under such grading for a period as determined by the Will
County Health Department or the Grundy County Health Department only, at the
expiration of which period, it shall be reinspected. If, upon said
reinspection, said restaurant shall not have qualified for an A or B Grade,
then its license shall thereupon be immediately revoked, and it shall
immediately cease to operate within the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-4) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 POISONOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No article, polish, or other substance containing any cyanide preparation or
other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or polishing of
utensils.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-5) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 DISEASE CONDITIONS.
   Notice shall be sent to the Health Officer immediately by the restaurant
manager or by the employee concerned if he or she, or any employee, contracts
any infectious, contagious, or communicable disease, or has a fever, a skin
eruption, a cough lasting more than three weeks, or any other suspicious
symptom. It shall be the duty of any such employee to notify the restaurant
manager immediately when any of said conditions occur, and if neither the
manager nor the employee concerned notifies the Health Officer immediately when
any of the said conditions occur, they shall be held jointly and severally to
have violated this section. A placard containing this section shall be posted
in all toilet rooms.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-6) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.20 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspections. At least once every six months, the Health
Officer shall inspect every restaurant located within the village. In case the
Health Officer discovers a violation of any item of sanitation required for the
Grade then held, he or she shall make a second inspection after the lapse of
such time as he or she deems necessary for the defect to be remedied, and the
second inspection shall be used in determining compliance with the Grade
requirements of this subchapter. Any violation of the same item of this
subchapter on two consecutive inspections shall call for immediate degrading or
suspension of license.
   (B)   Inspection reports. One copy of the inspection report shall be posted
by the Health Officer upon an inside wall of the restaurant, and said
inspection report shall not be defaced or removed by any person except the
Health Officer. Another copy of the inspection report shall be filed with the
records of the appropriate Health Department.
   (C)   Placard posted. In addition to the posting of the copy of the
inspection report, there shall also be posted in the window or on the exterior
door of said restaurant a placard, as follows:
 
This will certify that ___________________, located at ___________________, has
complied with the Village of Godley’s standards for a Grade ___ restaurant.
___________________________
County Health Officer
 
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-7) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses may be suspended by the Health Officer or revoked after an
opportunity for a hearing by the Health Officer upon the violation by the
holder of any of the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-8)
§ 113.22 REGRADING; REINSTATEMENT OF GRADING AND LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for upgrade or license reinstatement. Any restaurant, the
Grade of which has been lowered, and all Grade displays have been changed
accordingly, or the license of which has been suspended, may at any time make
application tor regrading or the reinstatement of the license.
   (B)   Inspections; higher Grade awarded, license reinstated. Within one week
after the receipt of a satisfactory application, accompanied by a statement
signed by the applicant to the effect that the violated item or items of the
specifications have been conformed with, the Health Officer shall make a
reinspection, and thereafter as many additional reinspections as he or she may
deem necessary to assure himself or herself that the applicant is again
complying with the higher Grade requirements and, in case the findings indicate
compliance, shall award the higher Grade or reinstate the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-9)
§ 113.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Health Officer for the village, and
for the purpose of such enforcement, the Health Officer is herewith authorized
and legally appointed inspector of the State Department of Public Health, and
in the enforcement hereof, the Health Officer shall be bound in the
interpretation of this subchapter by the interpretations contained in the
latest edition of the United States Public Health Service Code regulating
eating or drinking establishments, a copy of which shall remain on file at the
Village Clerk’s office, available at all times for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-10)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
113.01 through
113.04 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense at the discretion of the court having jurisdiction. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day the violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-6A-5)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
113.15 through
113.23 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense at the discretion of the court having jurisdiction. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day the violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-6B-10)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Registration and permit required; fee
   
114.02   Uninvited soliciting prohibited; exemptions
   
114.03   Arrests
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   No peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant shall do any business, or
contact any person in the village unless said peddler, solicitor, or itinerant
merchant shall first register with the Village Clerk and obtain a permit. The
fee for said permit shall be $25 per day.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the village by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or
owners, occupant, or occupants of such private residence for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and/or for the
purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, and the practice
of ringing doorbells, knocking at doors, and the use of other means for gaining
entrance into such private residence by such persons for any of the purposes
aforesaid, and the practice of soliciting clerks, employees, and other persons
in any of the stores, offices, and other places of business in the village for
orders for merchandise, and/or for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling
or hawking the same by any such solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise, during business hours, without
having been invited to or requested to do so by the proprietors or others in
charge of such places of business, are, and each of them is, hereby declared to
be a nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor. Excluded from
this are school children selling for class projects, Girl Scouts selling
cookies, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 ARRESTS.
   The Chief of Police, and all other police officers of the village, are
hereby required and directed to suppress and abate any such nuisance by
forthwith arresting any person or persons creating such nuisance and taking
such person or persons before a magistrate to be dealt with as required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of creating or perpetrating any such nuisance as
described and prohibited in this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4)
CHAPTER 115: TOBACCO ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Application for license; fee
   
115.03   Location restricted
   
115.04   Sanitary premises
   
115.05   Sales to minors prohibited
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation, either by means of an automatic vending
machine or otherwise, shall sell or offer for sale any cigarettes, cigars, or
tobacco without having first obtained a license to sell the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   An application for such license shall be made to the Village Clerk who
shall, upon performance of all conditions prerequisite to the issuance of said
license, issue the same at the direction of the President, signed, sealed, and
attested to. The license fee for cigarette, cigar, and tobacco dealers shall be
$25 per year.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2)
§ 115.03 LOCATION RESTRICTED.
   No person, firm, or corporation, either by means of an automatic vending
machine or otherwise, shall sell, give away, barter, exchange, or otherwise
deal in cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco at any place located within 100 feet of
any building used exclusively for school purposes. It shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police, and he or she is hereby authorized and empowered from time to
time, to inspect and examine all places where cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco
are licensed to be sold within the village for the purpose of prohibiting any
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 SANITARY PREMISES.
   Every public place where cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco, either by means of
an automatic vending machine or otherwise, are sold shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition for the health, safety, and comfort of its patrons.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4)
§ 115.05 SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR. A person less than 18 years of age.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Includes any item, product, or substance containing
tobacco leaf, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, snuff, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, or dipping tobacco.
   (B)   Sale and distribution to minors. No person, firm, entity, corporation,
or other business association existing under laws of the state shall sell,
offer to sell, give away, or deliver any tobacco product to any minor. The
parent or legal guardian of a minor are exempt from the terms of this section.
   (C)   Possession by minors. It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess
any tobacco product; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to a
minor who, at the time of possession, is under direct and immediate supervision
of his or her parent or guardian, and is in the home or residence of the parent
or guardian.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-22-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and every day such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-6)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
115.05 shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $750, for each
violation hereof.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-22-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND DECENCY
      
135.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   State Criminal Code adopted
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions, and
sections of the State Criminal Code, as amended, are hereby adopted by the
village. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
section, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this section if proceeded hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Criminal Code, see 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any provision of
this title shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-10)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Offenses Against Safety
   
131.01   Assault
   
131.02   Battery
   
131.03   Breach of the peace; unlawful assemblies
   
131.04   Reckless conduct
   
131.05   Disorderly conduct
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
131.20   Impersonating public officials
   
131.21   Resisting or obstructing public officials
   
131.22   Disobeying fire or police officials
   
131.23   False alarms
   
131.24   Drinking in public; public intoxication
   
131.25   Disturbing funeral processions
OFFENSES AGAINST SAFETY
§ 131.01 ASSAULT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault upon any
other person.
   (B)   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she
knowingly engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a battery. A person commits a
battery when he or she intentionally and knowingly, without legal
justification, by any means causes bodily harm to an individual, or makes or
causes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 BREACH OF THE PEACE; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, aid, countenance, or assist in
making any improper noise, riot, breach of the peace, or diversion tending to a
breach of the peace, and it shall be unlawful for all persons to collect in
bodies or crowds for unlawful purposes, or for any purpose to the annoyance or
disturbance of citizens or travelers.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any reckless act, whether
otherwise lawful or unlawful, which causes bodily harm to, or endangers the
bodily safety of, all individuals.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit disorderly conduct. A person
commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to amount to a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Disturbs or disquiets any congregation or assembly meeting for any
lawful purpose, religious or otherwise, by making noise or profane discourse
within the meeting place or so near the same as to disturb the order and
conduct of the meeting;
   (D)   Transmits, in any manner to the Police Department or the Fire
Department of any city, town, or village, a false alarm of fire or false
report, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable
grounds for believing that such fire or condition exists;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such a bomb or explosive
is concealed in such place;
   (F)   Disturbs the peace of the village or the quiet of any private family
or person therein by loud or unusual noises, including, but not limited to,
those created by unreasonable use of horns, whistles, bells, fireworks, or
boisterous laughing or singing, or by shouting, cursing, quarreling, or
challenging to fight or fighting;
   (G)   Appears in any unlicensed place in possession of, or manifestly under
the influence of, alcohol, narcotics, or other drug, not therapeutically
administered, to the degree that he or she may endanger himself or herself or
other persons or property or annoy persons in the vicinity. PUBLIC PLACE, for
the purposes of this division (G), means any place where the conduct may
reasonably be expected to be viewed by others; or
   (H)   Goes upon any school property, public or private, within the village
at any time when other persons are present, for the purpose of, or with the
intention of, making or doing any unreasonable act which disrupts or interferes
with, or tends to disrupt or interfere with, the educational classes or social
and athletic activities then and there in progress.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 131.20 IMPERSONATING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself or herself
to be an officer of the village or, without being duly authorized by the
village, to exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or
powers of a village or peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.21 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   No person shall interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the
village while engaged in the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.22 DISOBEYING FIRE OR POLICE OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of a Police Officer or Fire Department
official.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.23 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall knowingly start or spread any false alarms in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.24 DRINKING IN PUBLIC; PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Drinking in public. No persons shall, within the village limits, drink
alcoholic liquors or beverages in any streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other
unlicensed public places, or in or upon any vehicle commonly used for the
transportation of passengers.
   (B)   Public intoxication. It shall be unlawful for any person who is in a
state of intoxication or drunkenness to be or appear under any circumstances in
any street or public place, or in any place or premises open to public view,
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.25 DISTURBING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt or disquiet or disturb any
funeral assemblage, or break into or drive any conveyance through any funeral
procession.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Health and Safety
   
132.01   Throwing stones or other missiles
   
132.02   Dangerous objects in streets
   
132.03   Abandoned containers
   
132.04   Climbing on vehicles in motion
Weapons
   
132.15   Discharge of weapons
   
132.16   Possession of firearms
   
132.17   Brandishing dangerous weapons
   
132.18   Concealed weapons
   
132.19   Sales to minors
HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 132.01 THROWING STONES OR OTHER MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to heedlessly cast or throw any stone,
clod, snowball, or other missile from or into any public place, or at any house
or person, or at any vehicle, be it motorized or not, within the village
limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed,
intentionally or carelessly, upon the streets or alleys of the village, any
glass, cans, barbed wire, rails, tacks, broken pieces of chinaware, or any
other pointed or sharp material, or instrument whatsoever, that may cause
injury to any person or property; however, the placing of any broken stone,
gravel, or other material used for the improvement of the street shall not be
construed to be a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 ABANDONED CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Abandonment prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
abandon, discard, or leave standing in any place accessible to children any
refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, or other container of any kind which has an
airtight door or lock which may not be released for opening from the inside of
said refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, or container of a capacity of one and
one-half cubic feet or more.
   (B)   Responsibility of owner. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporate entity who owns, leases, manages, or controls any lot, piece, or
parcel of real estate in the village to store, or knowingly permit the storing
thereon or therein, of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice
chest, or other container which has an airtight door or lock which may not be
released for opening from the inside of said refrigerator, icebox, ice chest,
or container of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 CLIMBING ON VEHICLES IN MOTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon or into any automobile,
wagon, carriage, sleigh, or other vehicle while the same may be in motion or
attach his or her sled or cart to any such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
WEAPONS
§ 132.15 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, discharge, set off, or use
within the corporate limits of the village any air gun, firearm, bean shooter,
slingshot, or any other instrument or machine from which a missile is
discharged or hurtled, except at or upon duly licensed ranges.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.16 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be and is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to have or
carry upon his or her person or within any vehicle upon the streets, highways,
and thoroughfares and within the territory of the corporate limits of the
village any shotgun or rifle, unless such shotgun or rifle so being carried or
transported shall be unloaded, and unless the same shall be disassembled or
otherwise taken apart so as to render it incapable of being fired, or unless
the same shall be enclosed in a case. The provisions hereof shall not apply,
however, to the following:
   (A)   Officers while engaged in the discharge of their official duties;
sheriffs, police officers, or other duly constituted peace officers; nor to
persons lawfully summoned by an officer to assist in making arrests or
preserving the peace, and while so engaged in assisting such officers; and
   (B)   Hunters during the legal hunting season in open areas consisting of at
least ten acres, provided said hunter has written consent of the land owner and
has a valid state hunting license.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7-2) (Ord. 92-06, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.17 BRANDISHING DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry in a threatening or menacing
manner, without authority of law, any pistol, revolver, dagger, razor,
dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles, slingshot, nunchaku, or any object
containing noxious or deleterious liquid, gas, or substance, or other dangerous
weapon.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.18 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Carrying prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person within the
corporate limits of the village to carry or wear under his or her clothes or
concealed about his or her person or in or about a motor vehicle in which he or
she is a passenger, any pistol, revolver, derringer, bowie knife, dirk, knife,
razor or dagger, slingshot, metallic knuckles, or other dangerous or deadly
weapons of a like character.
   (B)   Violation; arrest and confiscation. Upon complaint made, under oath or
affirmation to any judge, that any person has been guilty of violating the
provisions of division (A) above, a summons or warrant shall be issued for the
summoning or arrest of the offender returnable forthwith. Upon the return of
such summons or warrant, the judge shall proceed to the hearing and
determination of the matter, and if it shall be adjudged that the person has
violated the provisions of division (A) above, the judge shall order that the
weapon shall be forfeited to, and confiscated by, the village.
   (C)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to sheriffs, members of the police force, or other peace officers engaged
in the discharge of their official duties, or to any person summoned by any
such officers to assist in making arrest or preserving the peace, while such
person so summoned is engaged in assisting such officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.19 SALES TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, loan, hire, barter, or
furnish, or offer to sell, give, loan, hire, barter, or furnish to any minor
within the village any gun, pistol, revolver, fowling piece, or other firearm
in which any explosive substance can be used, or any bowie knife, dirk, dagger,
or other deadly weapon of a like character.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Injuring or destroying property
   
133.02   Trespass
   
133.03   Sleeping in prohibited places
   
133.04   Littering
   
133.05   Theft
   
133.06   Burglar tools
   
133.07   Loitering
§ 133.01 INJURING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts in
the village:
   (A)   Knowingly damage any property of another, including public property,
without consent of the owner;
   (B)   Recklessly damage property of another; or
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without the consent of
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Trespassing on land. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
enter upon the land or any part thereof of another after receiving, immediately
prior to the entry, notice from the owner, occupant, or person in charge of
such land or part thereof or a peace officer, that the entry is forbidden, or
to remain upon the land of another after receiving notice to depart.
   (B)   Trespassing on buildings, vehicles, or watercraft. It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter or remain within a building, house trailer,
watercraft, aircraft, motor vehicle, railroad car, or any part thereof with
intent to commit therein an unlawful act.
   (C)   Trespassing on grass, lawn, or flowers. It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully, negligently, or heedlessly walk upon or across, or ride or
drive any animal or vehicle upon or across, any lawn, grass plot, or flower bed
in or upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or public places of the village;
or to walk upon or across any private lawn, grass plot, or flower bed without
the consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 SLEEPING IN PROHIBITED PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sleep in or upon any street, alley,
or other public place in the village, or upon any private lot or premises
without the consent of the owner or occupant of such lot or premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 LITTERING.
   (A)   Littering prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute, place, leave, throw, or scatter wastepaper, bills, posters,
lithographs, advertising matter, refuse, sweepings, or materials of like
substance in or upon the streets, alleys, or public grounds of the village, or
upon any vehicle in such places, except for official acts by village employees.
   (B)   Sponsoring littering. It shall be unlawful for any person to sponsor
the distribution of the materials in division (A) above.
   (C)   Littering parking facilities. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of any parking facility to permit, allow, or suffer the distribution
of the materials enumerated in division (A) above on any parking facility under
his or her ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Posting bills, see §
111.02
§ 133.05 THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any of the
following:
   (A)   Obtain or exert unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtain, by deception, control over property or services of the owner;
   (C)   Obtain, by threat, control over property or services of the owner; or
   (D)   Obtain control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another, or under any circumstances as would reasonably induce him or
her to believe that the property was stolen, and:
      (1)   Intend to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly use, conceal, or abandon in such manner as to deprive the
owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Use, conceal, or abandon the property knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment will probably deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 BURGLAR TOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
nippers of the description known as burglar’s nippers, or any pick-lock,
skeleton key, key to be used with a bit or bits, jimmy, or any other burglar’s
instrument or tool of whatsoever kind or description, unless it be shown that
such possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.07 LOITERING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location, and shall include
the concepts of spending time idly, loafing, or walking about aimlessly, and
shall also include the colloquial expression “hanging around.”
   (B)   Loitering prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in
a public place in such manner as to:
      (1)   Create, or cause to be created, a danger of a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Create, or cause to be created, any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
      (3)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; and/or
      (4)   Obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully in any
public place.
   (C)   Lewd remarks. This section shall include the making of unsolicited
remarks of an offensive, disgusting, or insulting nature, or which are
calculated to annoy or disturb the person to or in whose hearing they are made.
   (D)   Enforcement. Whenever the presence of any person in any public place
is causing, or is likely to cause, any of the conditions enumerated above, any
police officer may order that person to leave that place. Any person who shall
refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be
guilty of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
   
134.01   Nudity in premises selling liquor
   
134.02   Indecent exposure
   
134.03   Prostitution and related offenses
   
134.04   Possession of cannabis
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 NUDITY IN PREMISES SELLING LIQUOR.
   (A)   No person, while on premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor and in
public view, shall engage in the following conduct:
      (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or anal
cleft;
      (2)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or
anal cleft; or
      (3)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of his or her genitals,
pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft.
   (B)   No female person, while on premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor
and in public view, shall engage in the following conduct:
      (1)   Expose that area of the human breast below the top of the areola;
      (2)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
      (3)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of that area of the human
breast below the top of the areola.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6-1) (Ord. 82-04, passed 10-2-1982) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place exposed to
public view in a state of nudity, or make an indecent exposure of his or her
persons.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Soliciting for immoral purposes. It shall be unlawful for any person
to approach or solicit any person or offer herself or himself for immoral
purposes upon any public street or in any public place in the village.
   (B)   Keeping disorderly houses, houses of ill fame. It shall be unlawful
for any person, within the village limits, to keep or maintain, directly or
indirectly, any bawdy or disorderly house, house of ill fame or of assignation,
or place for the practice of fornication or adultery.
   (C)   Allowing use of premises for immoral purposes. It shall be unlawful
for any person to lease, let, or permit any building or premises within the
village limits, owned by him or her, or under his or her control, to be used in
whole or in part as a house of ill fame, or house of assignation, or place for
the practice of fornication or adultery; or to lease any building or premises
for a lawful purpose that may afterwards, with his or her knowledge, be
converted in whole or in part into the immoral uses and purposes set forth in
this division (C), and fail to cause the same to be immediately vacated upon
gaining knowledge thereof.
   (D)   Frequenting house of ill fame. It shall be unlawful for any person to
be an inmate of, or to frequent or be found in, any bawdy house, house of ill
fame or of assignation, or place used for the practice of fornication or
adultery within the village limits.
   (E)   Pandering. It shall be unlawful for any person within the village
limits to entice, influence, or persuade any person to enter or frequent any
bawdy house, house of ill fame or of assignation, or place used for the
practice of fornication or adultery, or to induce or persuade any minor to
enter or frequent, or to allow or permit any minor to enter or remain in, such
house or place.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6-3) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the state over the age of 21
to knowingly possess more than 30 grams of cannabis flower, five grams of
cannabis concentrate, and/or 500 milligrams of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in a
cannabis-infused product, as defined in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any non-resident of the state over the age of 21 to possess more than 15 grams
of cannabis flower, two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate, or 250
milligrams of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in a cannabis-infused product. These
aforementioned possession limits are cumulative. Unless the context otherwise
requires, CANNABIS is defined as and includes the following: marihuana,
hashish, and other substances which are identified as including any parts of
the plant Cannabis saliva, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, or the
resin extracted from, any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin,
including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives,
including its naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients,
whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by
means of chemical syntheses; or by a combination of extraction and chemical
syntheses; but shall not include the mature stalks, oil, or cake made from the
seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
   (B)   (1)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia
with the intent to use it in the ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing
of cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing
cannabis or a controlled substance for that use, shall be punished as stated in
§
134.99(B).
      (2)   In determining intent under this division (B), the trier of fact
may consider the proximity of the cannabis or controlled substances to drug
paraphernalia or the presence of the same upon the drug paraphernalia.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding,
packaging, labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an
incident to lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale;
         (b)   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with, the planting, propagating, cultivation, harvest, manufacture,
processing, testing, packaging, storing, containment, concealing, injection,
ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance, including, but
not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, rolling
papers, cigars, and the like; and/or
         (c)   Items marketed for decorative purposes, when such items have
been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any illicit
purposes prohibited under this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-9) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Cannabis possession limits, see 410 ILCS 705/10-10
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
134.04(B) is guilty of a violation of this section, for which the court shall
impose a minimum fine of $750 and enter a judgment of conviction.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 135: MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
135.01   Curfew
Alcohol
   
135.15   Possession, consumption, sale to minors
 
   
135.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 135.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Age and hour restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person less
than 17 years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building,
place, street, alley, or highway at the following times unless accompanied and
supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other responsible companion at least
18 years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a
business or occupation which the laws of the state authorize a person less than
17 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 11:01 p.m. Friday, and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 11:01 p.m. Saturday, and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:01 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. the following day.
   (B)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. It shall be unlawful for a
parent or legal guardian to knowingly permit a person, under the age of 17
years, in his or her custody or control to violate this section.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 86-03, passed 9-9-1985) Penalty, see §
135.99
ALCOHOL
§ 135.15 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, SALE TO MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual under the legal drinking age
to possess, use, or consume any alcoholic beverages within the limits of the
village.
   (B)   No person shall breathe, inhale, or drink any compound, liquid, or
chemical containing tohrol, hexane, trichlorethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl
acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl cellulose acetate, cyclohexanone, or any
other substance for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication,
stupefaction, depression, giddiness, paralysis, or irrational behavior, or in
any manner changing, distorting, or disturbing the auditory visual or mental
process. For the purpose of this section, any such condition so induced shall
be deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly or willfully causes, aids, or encourages any
boy and girl to be or to become a delinquent child, or who knowingly or
willfully does acts which directly tend to render any such child so delinquent,
is guilty of the crime of contributing to the delinquency of children.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 4-23-2007) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)    Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any
provision of §
135.01 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   County regulations adopted
   
150.02   Minimum lot size
   
150.03   Occupancy well and septic survey
   
150.04   Permit fees
   
150.05   Pods, shipping containers
   
150.06   Vehicles, boats, trailers on property
Public Buildings
   
150.20   Maintenance requirements; liability
   
150.21   Inspections
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.35   Definition
   
150.36   Nuisance declared
   
150.37   Prohibitions
   
150.38   Abatement
   
150.39   Damaged buildings within fire limits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The village hereby adopts the building regulations of Will and/or Grundy
County by reference. Said regulations are in full force and effect as if set
out at length herein. Three copies of said regulations are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 150.02 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   A standard lot size for improvements must consist of 20,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 97-12, passed 6-23-1997)
§ 150.03 OCCUPANCY WELL AND SEPTIC SURVEY.
   (A)   Well and septic certification required. No person shall occupy as
owner, tenant, or occupant, or let to another for occupancy, any building,
mobile home, trailer, or structure to be used as a residence, business, trade,
or industry unless, prior to said occupancy, said owner, tenant, or occupant
shall have first filed with the Village Clerk a certification or letter from
the Will County Health Department or the Grundy County Health Department, as
the case may be, stating therein that a well and septic survey has been
conducted by the appropriate Health Department, and that the site to be used as
a residence, business, trade, or industry meets the requirements for well and
septic as required by the appropriate Health Department.
   (B)   Application of provisions. This section shall not apply to any
building, mobile home, trailer, or other structure presently being occupied as
a residence, business, trade, or industry in the village unless said building,
mobile home, trailer, or structure is moved, replaced, or repaired after having
received damage by any means of at least 50% of its fair market value, or
unless the use of said building, mobile home, trailer, or structure is changed
from one to another of a residence, business, trade, or industry.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 87-04, passed 6-8-1987) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   (1)   In order to obtain a building permit of any kind within the
village, there must be no ordinance violations on the property or any other
property that the applicant owns.
      (2)   Once all ordinance violations have been remedied, the applicant may
re-apply for a permit.
   (B)   (1)   The building permit fees for the issuance of building permits
within the village shall be based on the following schedule:
         (a)   For all new construction (including residential, commercial, and
industrial) and building additions, the fee shall be $0.30 per square foot.
         (b)   For accessory buildings, including detached garages and pole
barns, the fee shall be $0.25 per square foot.
         (c)   Each applicant shall pay an administration fee of $25 per
residential, commercial, or industrial building, and $15 per accessory
buildings (including garages and pole barns). This fee must be paid before a
permit is issued and is non-refundable.
         (d)   Occupancy permits shall not be issued until the final approval
for septic is issued by the county (Will or Grundy) on any new construction.
The permit fee shall be $25.
      (2)   When work is commenced without the required permits, the building
permit fee shall be doubled.
(Ord. 08-02, passed - -; Ord. 19-02, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 150.05 PODS, SHIPPING CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees has determined that no person shall
place or cause to be placed, or use, a shipping container for an accessory
building, storage building, or living unit within the village.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees has determined that temporary storage pods for
remodeling will be permitted for three months (90 days). If the pod is not
removed after three months (90 days), the village will fine the property owner
as stated in §
150.99(D). The Village Attorney will then proceed to place a lien the property.
Before the three months are up, the property owner can, in unique
circumstances, come to the village and request a reasonable extension.
   (C)   With prior Board approval, pods and shipping containers may be used on
commercial zoned property on a case-by-case basis. The number of containers to
be determined by the Board of Trustees along with any cosmetic requirements and
security requirements. Additionally, no containers are allowed to contain
industrial or combustible chemicals.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-26-2020) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 VEHICLES, BOATS, TRAILERS ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Registration of vehicles, RVs, trailers, and boats. Any vehicle, RV
(recreational vehicle), trailer, boat, or boat trailer is permitted to be on,
in front of, or alongside a residential lot, provided any such vehicle,
trailer, boat, or boat trailer is in the landowner’s name and such landowner
receives a license for use and ownership from the state and village, as
applicable.
   (B)   RVs.
      (1)   A landowner of a residential lot may apply to the village for the
issuance of an RV permit, allowing a recreational vehicle (RV) or camper to be
used as a living quarters, or otherwise occupied, on, in front of, or alongside
a residential lot.
      (2)   No camper or RV shall be permitted to be used as a living quarters,
or otherwise occupied, and remain on the residential lot for more than two
consecutive weeks.
      (3)   No residential address shall be permitted more than two permits per
any given calendar year.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 8-28-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS; LIABILITY.
   The owner, agent, occupant, or person charged with the custody of any public
building, auditorium, hotel, theater, lodge hall, or church and, in the case of
schools, the President of the Board of Education, shall be held liable for the
equipment and maintenance of such equipment as is required in this subchapter
and for the maintenance and safety of all exits, stairs, doors, windows, or
passageways.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 150.21 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Police Department, or his or
her duly appointed assistants, to approve and inspect all apparatus to be
installed, and their location.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Police Department to cause
periodic inspections to be made concerning the operation and accessibility to
all main and emergency exits in all public auditoriums, schools, lodge halls,
and theaters.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing, or by a collapse or fall of
any part of such structure; and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 150.36 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any dangerous building in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §
90.015(E)
§ 150.37 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building
in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person in
custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous
condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is
or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Declaration of dangerous condition. Whenever the President, or his or
her designee, determines that any building or structure in the village is a
dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement setting for the
determination and basis for such determination with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Notice to abate. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be
serve upon the owner thereof and upon the occupants thereof, if any, by
personal service or certified mail. Such notice shall state that the building
was declared dangerous, that basis for such determination, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed, abated, repaired, altered, demolished, or
such other remediation, otherwise the village may cause to abated in any matter
prescribed by law.
   (C)   Abatement by the village. After the aforementioned notice is sent, if
any person fails to comply within, ten days from the date of service, the
President, or his or her designee, may proceed to remedy the condition or
demolish the building in any matter prescribed by law.
   (D)   Manner of abatement. Notwithstanding the aforementioned procedures,
the village may, at any time, abate such dangerous buildings or unsafe
properties in any manner prescribed by law, including, but not limited to, the
procedures set forth in Division 31 of Article 11 in the Illinois Municipal
Code, being 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq.
(Ord. 22-15, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 150.39 DAMAGED BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Removal of damaged buildings. Any building or structure within the
fire limits of the village, as prescribed by ordinance, which has or may be
damaged by fire, decay, or other cause to the extent of 50% of its fair market
value, shall be torn down and removed.
   (B)   Appointed board to determine extent of damage.
      (1)   (a)   Upon written notice by the Village Clerk, the Village Board
may appoint three persons to determine whether or not such building or
structure has been damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its fair market
value.
         (b)   A copy of such notice, filed by the village officer, together
with a notice of the appointment of this board of three persons to determine
the damage, shall be served upon the owner of the premises by personal service
or by registered mail to his or her last known address.
         (c)   Such notice may be in substantially the following form:
 
To _____________________________________________
 
You are hereby notified that _____________________________ has determined that
the building owned by you at _________________________________ located within
the fire limits of the village has been damaged by fire, decay, or otherwise to
the extent of 50% or more of its fair market value; and that a board of three
members has been appointed to verify this finding, which board will hold its
first meeting in the Village Hall on the _____________ day of
__________________ at the hour of ________________ o’clock, at which time it
will determine whether this finding is correct.
 
If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove said
building.
 
      (2)   If the board of three members determines that the building in
question has been damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its fair market
value, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down or remove the building
within 20 days after the finding of the board, and it shall be unlawful to
occupy or permit such building to be occupied after the finding.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.20 and
150.21 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense. Each day on which such violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
   (B)   Any person violating §
150.03 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.35 through
150.39 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense. Each day on which such violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
150.05 shall be fined $75 per day in accordance with §
10.99.
   (E)   Any landowner violating §
150.06(B) shall be fined $25 per day for each violation.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 8-28-2017; Ord. 20-04, passed 10-26-2020)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Permit requirements
   
151.03   Inspections
   
151.04   Structure requirements
   
151.05   Defective structures, repairs required
   
151.06   Use restrictions
   
151.07   Notice to assessor
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE/MODULAR HOME. Any structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transportation on wheels, temporarily or
permanently attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the
location, or subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent
home and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one
or more persons.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 151.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as may be authorized under §
154.088(A)(4), no person, firm, partnership, trust, landlord, or tenant shall
construct, establish, own, rent, lease, live in, deliver, transport, or allow
any mobile/modular home within the village limits without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   In order to obtain a permit, the applicant shall file with the
Village Clerk written application on a form setting forth:
         (a)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or
names and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the
names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application;
         (b)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon
which it is proposed to be placed;
         (c)   The proposed and existing facilities for water supply, sewage,
garbage, and solid waste disposal; and
         (d)   The plot plan of the lot drawn on a scale of 50 feet to one
inch, building plans, and specifications for existing buildings and facilities,
or the proposed alterations in existing facilities, all showing compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, and shall contain, among other things, the
following:
            1.   The date on which such plot plans were prepared;
            2.   An arrow indicating north;
            3.   Complete information regarding septic and wells;
            4.   Stormwater runoff, shown on a separate plan; and
            5.   Grades of driveways and all ditches, shown on a separate plan.
Driveway permits are available from the Village Clerk at a cost of $5 per
permit.
      (2)   All applications must be filed 30 days prior to the date planned on
moving the mobile/modular home into the village.
   (C)   Permit fee; issuance. All permits issued for a mobile/modular home
will be at the cost of $0.30 per square foot and will be issued by the Village
Clerk upon approval of the application and inspection. Costs for mobile/modular
homes brought into the village prior to approval and inspection will be subject
to penalty as provided in §
151.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 93-09, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. passed 1-28-2008)
Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference:
   Permit requirements for driveways, see §
152.40
§ 151.03 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections required. Prior to any mobile/modular home being
constructed, established, transported, or delivered within the village limits,
the owner of said mobile/modular home or the owner of any real estate upon, or
to which, the mobile/modular home is to be constructed, established,
transported, or delivered, or the tenant who is to live or reside in said
mobile/modular home, shall notify the Village Clerk that said mobile/modular
home is intended for use within the village limits and shall make said mobile/
modular home available for inspection by the village at reasonable times and
places. Each mobile/modular home shall be inspected again upon its setup within
the village. A third and final inspection shall be allowed after all septic,
water, electric, and gas connections have been made. Upon each inspection, the
village, through its designated agent, shall issue a report within 24 hours
either approving of the work, structure, and material to date or listing in
what ways said work, structure, and material are defective or deficient.
Corrections shall be made within 14 days or the mobile/modular home shall be
removed from within the village if already located within the village. No
mobile/modular home shall be occupied as a residence until after the final
inspection and the occupancy permit is issued.
   (B)   Inspection fee. A mobile/modular home inspection fee is hereby
instituted at a cost of $100 per inspection which must be paid in advance of
the inspection being made; the mobile/modular home inspection fee is non-
refundable. The Village Clerk is hereby designated by the Board as the
representative of the village to receive payments of the mobile/modular home
inspection fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 93-09, passed 2-22-1993; Res. 94-01, passed 11-8-
1993; Ord. passed 1-28-2008)
§ 151.04 STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile/modular homes within or to be brought within the village shall
comply with the following:
   (A)   Size. Be no less than 14 feet by 60 feet (840 square feet) in size;
   (B)   Age. Be no older than ten years in age;
   (C)   Compliance with other regulations. Comply with all applicable federal,
state, county, and local rules, regulations, laws, codes, statutes, and
ordinances;
   (D)   Structure requirements; underpinning and skirting. Be completely
underpinned with skirting of all one color within 30 days of being brought into
the village limits; and
   (E)   Good workmanship. Be constructed in a good workmanlike manner, in safe
and sound condition, and not in need of painting.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 93-09, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. passed 1-28-2008)
§ 151.05 DEFECTIVE STRUCTURES, REPAIRS REQUIRED.
   No mobile/modular home needing repairs will be issued a permit to be moved
within the village limits. Any and all repairs required must be made prior to a
permit being issued, and the mobile/modular home moved within the limits of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 93-09, passed 2-22-1993) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   As of the passage of division (B)(1) through (B)(7) below on September
25, 2000, that there be no mobile homes moved into the village limits on empty
unimproved lots.
   (B)   Any existing mobile home within the village upon September 25, 2000,
may be replaced with a mobile home if they meet the village’s requirements,
which are as follows:
      (1)   The replacement mobile home can be brand new or at least within ten
years old;
      (2)   The mobile must be inspected by the Village Clerk;
      (3)   There will be a non-refundable fee of $100 for an inspection of
said mobile home payable before inspection;
      (4)   Underpinning must be completely on the mobile home within 90 days,
and must be all one color;
      (5)   Mobile home permit fees are $100 for single-wide and $200 for a
double-wide;
      (6)   Upon receiving permission to replace a mobile home, the owner will
be allowed 30 days to replace the mobile; if the 30 days expire, the landowner
will lose all rights to the grandfather clause and no new mobile permit will be
issued for that property. No exceptions; and
      (7)   All mobile homes within the village must be tied down according to
the statutes of the state.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.07 NOTICE TO ASSESSOR.
   All persons owning real property and mobile/modular homes must notify the
township tax assessor and declare the mobile/modular home as real property for
taxing purposes to Reed Township Assessor, 440 N. Division Street, Braidwood,
Illinois 60408, (815) 458-6068.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. 93-09, passed 2-22-1993)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided
in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a new violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. 93-09, passed 2-22-1993)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Supervision
   
152.02   Permit to construct or repair
   
152.03   Repairs and defects
   
152.04   Excavations
   
152.05   Barricades and lights
   
152.06   Openings in public ways
   
152.07   Deposits on streets and sidewalks
   
152.08   Utility poles and wires
   
152.09   Obstructing public ways
   
152.10   Gas pumps
   
152.11   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
152.12   Alleys vacated
Construction Requirements
   
152.25   Construction specifications generally
   
152.26   Street improvements
   
152.27   Sidewalk expansion joints
Driveways
   
152.40   Permit requirements
   
152.41   Construction specifications
   
152.42   Maintenance and repair
Overhanging Signs and Awnings
   
152.55   Permit requirements
   
152.56   Construction requirements
   
152.57   Height above public ways
   
152.58   Inspections
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 SUPERVISION.
   All public streets, alleys, and other public ways in the village shall be
under the supervision of the Village Board of Trustees. The Board shall have
supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places (except traffic ordinances), and is hereby authorized to enforce
such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 152.02 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct or lay any pavement on any
public street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way, or repair the same without
first having secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk, and shall
state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the extent thereof, and
the person or firm who is to do the actual construction work.
      (2)   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Village
Board.
   (C)   Bond. Each applicant shall file, in the amount of $10,000, a bond,
with surety to be approved by the Village Board, conditioned to indemnify the
village for any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner
of doing the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 REPAIRS AND DEFECTS.
   (A)   Repairs required. All public street, alley, and sidewalk pavements
shall be in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or by
the abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Defects reported. It shall be the duty of every village officer or
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the Village Board of Trustees as
soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 152.04 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall make any excavation in or tunnel
under any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the village
without having first secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application for permit. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Village Clerk and shall specify the intended location and the purpose of
the excavation.
   (C)   Restoration of excavated area. Any person making any such excavation
shall refill the same properly and shall, as soon as possible, restore the
surface to its condition before the excavation was made.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Construction and repair work. Any person, firm, or corporation laying
or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk, or other public place, or
making an excavation in any such place, shall maintain suitable barricades to
prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the work. Such barricades
shall be protected by a light at nighttime.
   (B)   Defective pavements; excavations. Any defects in any such pavement
shall be barricaded to prevent any such injury, and any person, firm, or
corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any such place
shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open by proper
barricades and lights.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 152.06 OPENINGS IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   No person shall construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public street or sidewalk or alley without a permit from the Board.
   (B)   All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable
strong cover or a railing to the approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Deposits on streets. No person shall deposit on any street any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material,
or any glass or other articles which may do injury to any person, animal, or
property.
   (B)   Deposits on sidewalks.
      (1)   No person shall deposit on any public sidewalk any material which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste materials or any glass, or
other articles, which might cause injury to persons, animals, or property.
      (2)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet; and provided further, that no such
article shall remain on such walks for more than one-half hour.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 UTILITY POLES AND WIRES.
   No person shall erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any public
street, alley, or other public way without having first secured permission from
the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Prohibited generally. No person shall cause, create, or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Obstructing drains. No person shall obstruct any drain in any public
street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 GAS PUMPS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall maintain or erect any gasoline pump
or tank in any public street, alley, or sidewalk without having first secured a
permit therefor from the Village Board.
   (B)   Bond. No such permit shall be issued until the applicant furnishes a
bond or indemnity policy, with corporate surety, to indemnify the village
against loss or liability in the sum of $100,000 occasioned by such tank or
pump.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Injury to pavements.
      (1)   No person shall injure any sidewalk, street, or alley pavement.
      (2)   No person shall walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure, any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by
a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly laid
pavement.
   (B)   Encroachments. No person shall erect or maintain any building or
structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
   (C)   Private use; graffiti. No person shall use any street, sidewalk, or
other public place as space for the display or sale of goods or merchandise, or
to write or make any signs or advertisements on any such pavement.
   (D)   Barbed wire and electric fences. No person shall maintain or construct
any fence composed in whole or in part of barbed wire, or with any similar
material designed to cause injury to persons, or any wire charged with electric
current, anywhere within three feet of any public place, street, alley, park,
or other public way.
   (E)   Playing games. No person shall play any games upon any street, alley,
or sidewalk where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic
or pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 ALLEYS VACATED.
   (A)   Provisions created. There is hereby created an ordinance for the
vacation of all alleys within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Vacation of Alleys Officer. It shall be the duty of the Village Board
to appoint an attorney at law to handle the vacation procedures. This attorney
shall be known as the Vacation of Alleys Officer.
   (C)   Expenditures. Expenses of such vacation shall be on the General Fund
of the village with Board approval.
   (D)   County Clerks notified. It shall be the duty of the Vacation Officer
to notify Will/Grundy County Clerks of such vacations.
   (E)   Assessment of property. It shall be the duty of the Planning
Commission to prepare a list of property which, by the passing of this section,
shall increase private lot sizes. Said list shall be for the Vacation Officer
for taxation purposes and shall be filed with the Clerks of said counties.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12)
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.25 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY.
   All sidewalk and street pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-1)
§ 152.26 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known as the “Godley Road
Construction Ordinance.”
   (B)   Registered engineers required. All new road construction within the
village must be surveyed and engineered by a registered professional
engineering firm.
   (C)   Submission of, and compliance with, plans.
      (1)   The developer of a subdivision must furnish the Village Board of
Trustees for the Board’s approval a certified copy of the engineering plans
prior to any road construction beginning.
      (2)   The developer of a subdivision will construct all roadways
according to the specifications of the engineering firm only after having
received Board approval for the same.
   (D)   Soils survey. Prior to placement of any crushed stone/gravel for a
road base, a soil engineer shall be provided by the owner to examine, approve,
or reject adequacy of the soils for road construction.
   (E)   Construction specifications. All roadways shall be improved with a
dust-proof surface roadway as follows.
      (1)   All roadways shall have a compacted clay base as required by the
determination of the road and soil engineers.
      (2)   Roadways shall be covered with a ten-inch crushed stone base of CA-
6 as provided in the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction,” State Department of Transportation.
      (3)   The minimum surface requirements shall consist of a bituminous
surface treatment, two and one-half inches (one and one-half inches binder and
one inch surface) complying State Transportation Department Standards, Class 1,
sub-class 11 (Mod).
      (4)   The crown of the roadway shall be figured at three-sixteenths inch
per one foot.
      (5)   The shoulder slope shall be one-half inch per foot.
      (6)   There shall be crushed stone shoulders one and one-half feet wide
with grade 8 (CA-6).
   (F)   Surface water drainage. Particular attention shall be given to means
for disposition of stormwater. The design, layout, and carrying capacities of
stormwater shall recognize the future requirements of adjacent undeveloped
areas.
   (G)   Easements required. All drainage and underground utilities which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
   (H)   Street signs and stop signs. Street signs and stop signs, of a design
to be approved by the Board of Trustees, shall also be erected so as to
identify every street, and shall be so designed and constructed so as to
conform with existing street signs at the expense of the subdivider. They shall
be installed at a height not less than seven feet and shall be placed not less
than one foot, nor more than ten feet, from the edge of the pavement.
   (I)   Street lighting. The developer of the subdivision shall be responsible
for adequate streetlights in any new subdivision. The developer will see to the
planning, expense, and actual installation of said streetlights, with Board
approval.
   (J)   Private roadways; dedication to public.
      (1)   All roadways will be considered private roadways until such time as
the roadway has been completed and all gravel areas primed, and an A-1 seal and
chip surface applied.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may accept the roadway as a dedicated roadway
once the above has been completed to the satisfaction of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-2) (Ord. 98-03, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 152.27 SIDEWALK EXPANSION JOINTS.
   (A)   Transverse, pre-moulded, bituminous expansion joints, three-fourths
inch thick, shall be placed at right angles to the edges of the sidewalk at
intervals of 30 feet throughout the length of said sidewalk. These joints shall
be held in place, perpendicular to the surface of the sidewalk, and in proper
alignment and grade by use of metal. The length of the said joints shall be the
width of the sidewalk. The joint shall extend from one inch below the top of
the foundation bed prepared for the sidewalk to the top surface of the finished
sidewalk. Wherever a sidewalk is constructed adjacent to existing improvements,
such as buildings, curbs, and sidewalks, a three-fourths inch, pre-moulded,
bituminous expansion joint shall be installed. One-half inch round, smooth
dowel bars, two feet long, shall extend across and through the expansion
joints. The bars shall be spaced two feet apart, center to center. The first
bar on either edge of the sidewalk shall be six inches from said edge. The
dowel bars shall be embedded in the concrete one-half the thickness of the
sidewalk below the top surface of said sidewalk, and shall extend into the
concrete slabs equally on each side of said joint. Caps or sleeves of metal, or
of a composition acceptable to the village, shall be placed on the alternate
opposite ends of the dowel bars after that portion of the bars has been coated
with approved heavy grease. Said cap or sleeve shall be approximately five
inches long, shall fit the dowel tightly, shall be indented so that there is a
stop for said dowel bar, and shall provide unobstructed expansion space of not
less than one inch.
   (B)   The dowel bars shall comply with the requirements of the standard
specifications for rail street concrete reinforcement bars, ASTM designation A-
16. Said dowel bars shall be held parallel to the surface of the sidewalk and
at right angles to the expansion joints by metal chains, or by other methods
acceptable to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-3)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 152.40 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm, or corporation shall construct a
driveway for vehicles or animals adjoining a roadway in the village without
having obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application for permit; fee. Applications for such permits shall be
made to the Clerk and shall be accompanied by the required fee of $5.
   (C)   Board approval required. No permit for the construction of a driveway
for commercial use or the habitual use of anyone other than the owner or
occupant of the premises served, shall be issued except upon the order of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-1)
Cross-reference:
   Permit requirements; mobile, modular homes, see §
151.02
§ 152.41 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Grade surface.
      (1)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression, or other obstruction in the roadway.
      (2)   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining roadway.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway
where the same crosses the roadway constructed of such materials as to render
it slippery and hazardous for pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the roadway, or to be other than level.
   (B)   Materials of construction. Driveways across sidewalks shall be
constructed of gravel, or of such other materials as may be approved by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it meets the roadway and free from obstruction and
openings.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-3)
OVERHANGING SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 152.55 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required; issuance; contents. No person, firm, or corporation
shall erect or maintain any sign or signboard, or rigid canopy, over any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way in the village without first
obtaining a permit therefor as is herein provided. Permits for such signs shall
be issued by the Clerk upon the payment of the fee, and shall designate the
location of the proposed sign.
   (B)   Bond. Each person, firm or corporation maintaining such sign or canopy
shall file with the clerk a bond or indemnity policy in the sum of $50,000
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or damage or liability that
may result from the construction or maintenance of such sign or canopy. Such
bond or policy shall have such sureties as may be required by the village
board; provided, that if a blanket indemnity insurance policy against any loss
or liability due to such signs and canopies is secured by the village, no such
bond need be filed.
   (C)   Term of permit. The period for which permits are required by this
subchapter shall be the same as the general license year.
   (D)   Temporary permits. Temporary permits may be issued for the maintenance
of a temporary sign or canopy for seven days upon payment of a fee of $2 for
each week or fraction thereof that such sign or canopy may be maintained.
(Prior Code, § 7-1C-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All signs and canopies extending over any sidewalk, street, alley, or other
public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no
danger of the same being dislodged by extraordinary winds or falling from any
other cause.
(Prior Code, § 7-1C-2)
§ 152.57 HEIGHT ABOVE PUBLIC WAYS.
   The lowest part of any sign or canopy or of any non-rigid awning, or support
thereof, which extends over the public way shall be at least nine feet above
the level of the sidewalk or public way used by vehicles, but no such sign
shall be maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of it or
of its support is less than 15 feet above the level of such public way, nor
shall any sign, canopy, or awning extend more than two feet from the exterior
outside edge of any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1C-3)
§ 152.58 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector for the village to inspect at
regular intervals every sign, canopy, or awning which extends over any
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 7-1C-4)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
   (B)   Whoever violates any section of §§
152.55 through
152.58 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 7-1C-5)
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Permit to plant and remove
   
153.02   Trimming or removal of tree required
   
153.03   Utility poles and wires
   
153.04   Protection of trees and shrubs
   
153.05   Prohibited acts
Diseased Trees; Removal
   
153.20   Dutch elm disease
   
153.21   Oak wilt disease
   
153.22   Right of entry
   
153.23   Notice to remove
   
153.24   Duty of owner to abate nuisance
   
153.25   Hearing
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PERMIT TO PLANT AND REMOVE.
   (A)   Planting trees and shrubs. No person shall plant any tree or bush in
any public place, street, or parkway without having secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall be referred
by him or her to the village before issuance. All trees and shrubs so planted
shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the village.
   (B)   Permit to remove trees and shrubs. No person shall remove or cut down
any tree or shrub in any such public place without having secured a permit
therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall be
referred to the Village Board before issuance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 TRIMMING OR REMOVAL OF TREE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Trees overhanging public ways. Any tree or shrub which overhangs any
sidewalk, street, or other public place in the village within ten feet of the
ground, or in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel,
shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises on which such tree or
shrub grows so that the ten-foot requirement is met and/or so that the
obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Dangerous conditions. Any tree or limb of a tree which has become
likely to fall on or across any public place or way shall be removed by the
owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   Village authority. The village may trim any such tree or shrub, or
remove any such trees or branches thereof, so that the obstruction or danger to
traffic or passage shall be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 153.03 UTILITY POLES AND WIRES.
   Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets,
alleys, or other public places shall, in the absence of provision in the
franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away
from any trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and shall
keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the village so that no injury shall be done
either to the poles or wires, or to the shrubs or trees, by their contact.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 153.04 PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Gas pipes. Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the
village shall keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done
thereby to any trees or shrubs.
   (B)   Excavations. In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub
whenever possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 153.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Injury to trees and shrubs. Injure any tree or shrub planted or
growing in any public place;
   (B)   Posting advertisements or notices. Attach any sign, advertisement, or
notice to any tree or shrub in any public place; or
   (C)   Attaching wires. Attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any
public street, parkway, or other public place without the permission of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) Penalty, see §
153.99
DISEASED TREES; REMOVAL
§ 153.20 DUTCH ELM DISEASE.
   (A)   Nuisances declared; destruction required. Any tree of the species of
elm, zelkova, and planera infected with fungus Ceratostomella ulmi, fungus
Gruphium ulmi, Phloem necrosis, or other tree infection, commonly known as
Dutch elm disease, as determined by laboratory analysis, is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and shall be removed and burned within ten days following
notification of the discovery of such infection. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation being the owner of property whereupon any such
diseased tree is situated to possess or keep such tree after the expiration of
ten days following notification of the discovery of such infection.
   (B)   Breeding places. Trees, or parts thereof, in a dead or dying
condition, including stumps and wood in wood piles, that may serve as a
breeding place or places for the European elm bark beetle, Scolytus
multistriatus, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful for the person, firm, or corporation owning property whereon the same
are situated to possess or keep the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 OAK WILT DISEASE.
   (A)   Any tree of the species of oak infected with the fungus Chalara
Guercina Henry, commonly called oak wilt, as determined by laboratory analysis,
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed and burned
within ten days following notification of the discovery of such infection.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation being the
owner of property whereupon any such diseased tree is situated to possess or
keep such a tree after the expiration of ten days following notification of the
discovery of said infection.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-2) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The proper village official, after giving notice to the resident
thereof, if any, of his or her intent and purpose, may enter upon private
property at all reasonable hours for purposes of inspecting such premises for
the presence thereon of infected trees, or of breeding places of the European
elm bark beetle, as described in §§
153.20 and
153.21, and may remove such samples, portions, or specimens therefrom as are
required for purposes of laboratory analysis to determine whether any tree
thereon is infected.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to prevent
the proper village official, or his or her duly authorized representative, from
entering upon private property for purposes of carrying out his or her duties
hereunder, or to interfere with the proper village official, or his or her
authorized representative, in the lawful performance of his or her duties under
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-3) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   (1)   The proper village official, or his or her representative, shall
give to the owner of the premises where the public nuisances described in §§
153.20 and
153.21 are found a written notice of the existence of such nuisance, and
requiring the removal and burning of same within ten days following such
notice, such removal and burning to be done under the direction and supervision
of the proper village official, or his or her representative.
      (2)   The notice shall also notify the owner of said premises that,
unless such nuisance is removed and burned in compliance with the terms thereof
within the ten-day period, the village will proceed with the removal and
burning of such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against the said property
owner.
   (B)   Service of such notice shall be by personal service where the owner of
said premises is a resident of the village; where the owner is a non-resident
of the village, said notice shall be served by certified mail, addressed to
said owner at his or her last known address, and by publication at least one
time in a newspaper of general circulation in the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-4)
§ 153.24 DUTY OF OWNER TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   It shall thereupon become the duty of the owner of the premises to cause
such diseased tree or trees, and breeding place or places, to be removed and
burned under the direction and supervision of the proper village official, or
his or her authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-5)
§ 153.25 HEARING.
   The owner of the premises may file with the Village Clerk, within five days
after notice has been sent by the proper village official, a request for a
hearing to be held within 20 days before the Board of Trustees or the committee
designated by it. At such hearing, evidence may be presented. After such
hearing, whether before the Board of Trustees or the committee designated by
it, the final decision shall be rendered by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-6)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
153.20 through
153.25 shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99. Each day during which a violation of §§
153.20 through
153.25 continues or is permitted shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. Imposition of any penalty for a violation of §§
153.20 through
153.25 shall not be construed as a waiver of the right of the village to
collect the costs of removal of such nuisance in accordance with the provisions
of §§
153.20 through
153.25 where it is necessary for the village to remove such nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-7)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Purpose and functions
   
154.003   Interpretation and scope
   
154.004   Jurisdiction, limitations, exemptions
   
154.005   Definitions
Zoning Districts and Map
   
154.020   Zones established; use regulation generally
   
154.021   Zoning map
   
154.022   Annexed land
Zoning Regulations
   
154.035   Matters regulated generally
   
154.036   Lot size
   
154.037   Structure heights
   
154.038   Yards
   
154.039   Off-street parking
   
154.040   Non-conforming structures, uses, land
   
154.041   Land divisions
Residential Zones
   
154.055   R-1 One-Family Residential Zone
   
154.056   R-2 Two-Family Residential Zone
   
154.057   R-3 Apartment and Multi-Family Residential Zone
   
154.058   R-4 Sparsely Occupied Residential Zone
Commercial and Industrial Zones
   
154.070   I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industry Zone
   
154.071   I-2 Heavy Industrial Zone
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.085   Enforcement officials
   
154.086   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.087   Expenditures of enforcing officer and Board
   
154.088   Permit requirements
   
154.089   Amendments and re-zones
   
154.090   Variances
   
154.091   Public notice requirements
   
154.092   Appeals
   
154.093   Administration, enforcement
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter, as hereby adopted, shall be known as the “Godley Village
Zoning Ordinance” or “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter:
      (1)   Divides the village into districts known as “zones” to regulate and
restrict the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for residence,
agriculture, business, industry, and other specified uses within said zones;
      (2)   Regulates and restricts the intensity of such use;
      (3)   Establishes building lines;
      (4)   Requires permits; and
      (5)   Provides for the administration hereof pursuant to “an act in
relation to county zoning,” passed by the general assembly of the state and
enacted into law June 28, 1935.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of promoting the public
health, safety, morals, comfort, and general welfare, conserving the value of
property, and lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and
highways, and securing the economic and social advantages resulting from an
orderly planned use of land resources.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq.
§ 154.003 INTERPRETATION AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. In interpreting and applying the provisions of
this chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general welfare.
   (B)   Allowances. Due allowance shall be made for existing conditions, the
conservation of property values, and the direction of building development to
the best interests of the village.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation, or permit previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict with
any of the provisions of this chapter, relative to the use of buildings,
structures, or land, nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere with,
abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between
parties; provided, however, that whenever this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of the buildings, structures, or land, or requires a
greater setback, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 154.004 JURISDICTION, LIMITATIONS, EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all territory within
the corporate limits of the village, which includes the corporate limits of the
village in the Counties of Grundy and Will.
      (2)   All territory adjacent to the village is subject to Will and Grundy
County zoning, however, once this chapter is adopted, state statutes give the
village a measure of control within one and one-half miles of the corporate
limits.
   (B)   Temporary buildings and structures. A construction permit shall
include temporary buildings and structures incidental to construction work,
which same shall be removed within 30 days after completion of said
construction work and the site restored to its original condition or improved
upon.
   (C)   Exemptions from provisions.
      (1)   Public utility exemptions. The type or location of any poles,
towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, pipes, mains, valves, or other similar
distribution equipment of a public utility are exempt from this chapter.
      (2)   Underground installations. Pipelines and other underground
installations, to the extent that some are completely buried beneath the
surface of the soil, are exempt from the requirements of this chapter;
provided, that any incidental or associated structures, installations, or
equipment, excepting markers, used in connection with such pipeline or
underground installations, and which protrude or are extended above the surface
of the soil, shall, to the extent of such protrusion, be subject to all of the
applicable provisions hereof. The installer of any underground installation
shall restore the area, be it a street, lot, road shoulder, ditch, or any
surface disturbed, to the condition it was at the time of installation as if
such an underground installation had not occurred.
      (3)   Agricultural exemptions; limitations. No provision is made in this
chapter for an Agricultural Zone, however it is permitted in R-3 Zones. In the
interest of the public health, a residence and its water supply and sewage
disposal in connection with agricultural use shall not be exempt.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND. Land, including necessary buildings and structures, for
the raising of crops or raising of domestic animals as the principal occupation
of the residents or users thereof. It shall also include truck farming,
beekeeping, raising of fruit and berries, the raising of Christmas trees, and
selling of the products thereof, but not to include GARBAGE FARMING, as herein
defined.
   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved or dedicated as a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change in the building structures such as bearing walls,
columns, beams or girders, floor joists, rafters, or exterior lines.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling which occupies or
is suitable as a residence for one family.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. A building containing both individual guest rooms or suites
of rooms and dwelling units.
   APPEALS, BOARD OF. A Board empowered to investigate zoning applications,
hear appeals, make recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees, and grant
variations in certain cases.
   AUTO COURT, MOTEL, OR TOURIST COURT. Any establishment operating a hotel
business in a single structure or group of structures consisting of individual
sleeping or living units with parking space conveniently located for each unit.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, painting, engine repairing or rebuilding,
and/or body and framework.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling of used motor vehicles or trailers, the
burning of combustible parts thereof, or storage, sale, or dumping of wrecked
vehicles is prohibited.
   BILLBOARDS. Any structure upon which a sign or advertisement is used as an
outdoor display for the purpose of making anything known; not to include any
bulletin board used to display official court or public office notices.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where meals and rooms for
three or more persons, and not to exceed 20, are served for compensation to
regular patrons. If numbers greater than 20 are regularly served, the
establishment shall be classified as a restaurant. Rest homes, homes for the
aged, homes for children, and penal institutions shall not be classified as
BOARDING HOUSES.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, or chattels, including additions thereto.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building customarily incidental and auxiliary to the
use of a principal building on the same premises. When the wall of any
ACCESSORY BUILDING is part of or joined to the wall of the main building, such
ACCESSORY BUILDING shall be counted as part of the main building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The height as shown on drawings or plots prepared by an
architect or professional engineer for new construction measured from the
finish grade of the lot.
   BUSINESS OR COMMERCE. The purchase, sale, or other transactions involving
the handling of any articles, substances, or commodities for profit or
livelihood, or management of office buildings, recreational enterprises, and
amusements, or the maintenance and use of offices by professions and trades
rendering services.
   CARPORT. An attachment to and adjoining the side of a residence, or a
building without sidewalls for the convenient loading and unloading of
passengers and parking of vehicles.
   CLUB. An association of persons for some common non-profit purpose, but not
including groups organized to render services, which are customarily carried on
as a business.
   CONVALESCENT HOME, NURSING HOME, AND REST HOME. An establishment rendering
nursing, dietary, and personal services to convalescents, invalids, and aged
persons, but excluding contagious or communicable diseases and excluding
surgery.
   DAY NURSERY OR NURSERY SCHOOL. Any establishment providing day care for
children under five years of age.
   DUPLEX RESIDENCE. Two one-family dwellings separated by a vertical party
wall without openings. A DUPLEX DWELLING shall be considered as one building
for the purpose of determining yard requirements.
   DWELLING. A building designed for residential purposes.
   FAMILY. Excepting domestic employees, any number of persons related by
blood, marriage, or operation of law, or not to exceed one person not so
related, living together in a room or rooms comprising a single housekeeping
unit.
   FARMING, GARBAGE. Feeding of community or collected garbage or food wastes
to livestock or its disposal in the open.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building either attached to or part of a dwelling, or an
independent totally enclosed structure for parking of vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building used for the care and repair of motor vehicles.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, for gain or support, conducted by members of
the family within its residence or incidental buildings, and provided, that no
article is sold or offered for sale except such as may be produced in the
household by members of the family.
   HOTEL. A building in which there are four or more guest rooms where lodging
with or without meals is provided for compensation and which is open to
transient as well as permanent guests.
   INDIVIDUAL HOUSE TRAILERS. Any house trailer which shall be owned and/or
occupied as a private residence, with or without foundations, whether on a
temporary or a permanent basis on property owned or rented, or leased, by the
occupant.
   LIQUOR STORE, PACKAGE. Any establishment selling alcoholic liquors at retail
or wholesale to the general public in sealed containers to be consumed away
from the premises where said establishment is located.
   LOT. A parcel of land, occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building or use, with its incidental building, including such open spaces as
may be required in connection with such buildings.
   LOT AREA. The horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot measured at right
angles to the length of the lot depth at a point midway between the front and
rear lot lines.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or structure, or use of any building or
structure, or tract of land lawfully existing or under construction at the time
of the adoption of this chapter or a later amendment, but whose location or use
does not conform with that required or permitted in the regulations herein.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or alley, used for
the temporary parking of more than four automobiles or commercial vehicles and
available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an
accommodation to clients or customers.
   RESIDENCE. Any structure designed or intended for the shelter or enclosure
of persons, including additions thereto.
   RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by three or
more families living independently of each other.
   RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building or structure designed for or
occupied exclusively by one family.
   RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by two families
independently of each other.
   SERVICE STATION. A gas station or filling station to supply motor fuel and
oil to motor vehicles, including grease racks, pits, tire repairs, and
washracks. Such a STATION may also include, not as a principal business, a
small line of sundries such as milk, candy, bread, ice cream, cigarettes, and
the like.
   SIGN. Any words, numerals, designs, or trademarks by which anything is made
known, other than a billboard, such as used to indicate an individual, firm,
profession, or business visible to the general public.
   SPOT ZONING. When a small area, such as a lot or part thereof, is given a
zoning other than that of the zone in which it is located.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surfaces of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level.
   TAVERN. An establishment for the retail sale of beer, wine, and other
intoxicating beverages for use or consumption upon the premises, and licensed
as such. The term TAVERN may include a package liquor business.
   VARIATION. A modification of the application of this chapter in specific
cases where practical difficulties or particular hardships, not intended or not
common to other property owners in the vicinity, would result from the strict
application of this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the inner
side yard lines and measured between the front lines of the lot and the front
line of the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front street line to the rear line of the lot.
   ZONING BLOCK. All property fronting on one side of a street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway, or village boundary.
   ZONING OFFICER. Any person employed, appointed, or designated by the Village
President and the Village Board of Trustees to receive zoning petitions,
inspect buildings and sites, issue permits, and administer this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5)
Cross-reference:
   Junkyards and junk dealers, see §
90.016
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 154.020 ZONES ESTABLISHED; USE REGULATION GENERALLY.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all land lying within the corporate limits
of the village is hereby divided and classified into the following zones. Said
zones are listed in the highest, designated as R-1, to the lowest, I-2 or heavy
industry. In general, all uses permitted in any higher zones are also permitted
in a lower zone.
 
Zones Uses
R-1   Single-family occupancy
R-2   Two-family occupancy
R-3   Multi-family apartment building
R-4   Sparsely occupied residential
I-1   Heavy commercial and light industry
I-2   Heavy industry
 
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 154.021 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The zones or districts into which the village is hereby divided shall
be shown and delineated on a map of the village entitled “Official Zoning Map.”
Said map shall be signed and dated by the Village Clerk upon adoption by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The official zoning map and all notations, dimensions, colors,
references, and symbols shown thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter
as if fully described herein, and shall be filed with the Village Clerk as part
of this chapter. Said map, certified as showing the zones created and approved,
shall be available for public reference in the offices of the Village Clerk and
the Village Zoning Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
§ 154.022 ANNEXED LAND.
   Land hereafter annexed to the corporate area of the village shall hereby be
classified in the highest residential zone, namely R-1, until, after careful
investigation and inquiry, public hearing, and recommendation by the Zoning
Board of Appeals, the Village Board of Trustees shall rezone it in conformity
to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 154.035 MATTERS REGULATED GENERALLY.
   Hereafter in the village, the erection and use of any new building or
structure, or the removal, relocation, enlargement, or structural alteration of
any existing building or structure, or any change in use, or new or additional
use made of any tract of land or of an existing building or structure:
   (A)   Shall be only those principal uses hereby permitted, if compatible in
character and extent with the zone in which located and unless otherwise
restricted or prohibited;
   (B)   Shall provide the building setback, front, rear, and side yard
setbacks, lot area per family, lot width, corner visibility, and automobile
parking areas hereby required; and
   (C)   Shall not encroach upon or reduce the required open spaces surrounding
any existing building.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 154.036 LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Public water and sewer systems available. In R-1 and R-2 Residential
Zones with public or community water supply and sewage disposal facilities
approved by the State Sanitary Water Board, no dwelling to accommodate one
family shall be erected on a lot or tract of land less than 42 feet in width,
and having an area less than 5,000 square feet, and no dwelling shall be
erected or structurally altered to accommodate two families on a lot or tract
of land less than 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   No public sewer system available; location of water supply. In all R-
1, R-2, and R-3 Residential Zones where such approved public or community
sewage disposal facilities do not exist and sewage must be disposed of on the
property itself, the minimum lot width shall be 42 feet and the minimum lot
area for one-family dwellings shall be 5,000 square feet. The minimum lot area
for two or more family dwellings shall be in proportion to the above. Drinking
water supply and sewage disposal facilities on the property must be separated
by a minimum distance of 75 feet and comply with all Health Department
standards of the county or state, whichever is applicable.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
Cross-reference:
   County regulations, see §
150.01
§ 154.037 STRUCTURE HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Building or structural heights will not be regulated in any one zone,
provided they comply with sound architectural or engineering practices, and can
be proven so, without endangering life, limb, or property where so installed
and/or any life, limb, or property adjacent to such an installation.
   (B)   The height of exhaust stacks, chimneys, and ventilators discharging
fumes, odors, and the like may require special regulation to comply with state
air pollution control regulations so as not to be obnoxious to the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 154.038 YARDS.
   (A)   Side yards. Minimum width of side yards in R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-
4 Zones shall be five feet from the property line.
   (B)   Setback of structure from roads. No building or structure, concrete,
or masonry wall, fence, or hedge which cannot be viewed through shall be
erected, substantially altered, or placed so that any part thereof is nearer
than 30 feet from the established street line on frontage of all property in
all districts; except that:
      (1)   On corner lots officially recorded at the time of the passage of
this chapter, the building line on side of lots on side streets need not be
further than ten feet from the established street line. Moreover, the minimum
required side yard plus such setback shall not reduce the buildable width of
such corner lots to less than 20 feet;
      (2)   On interior lots in R-1, R-2, and R-3 Zones, officially recorded as
above, where the lots adjoining on each side are already improved, the setback
shall not be less than the average of the buildings on these lots;
      (3)   On future lots in R-1, R-2, and R-3 Zones, officially recorded as
above, where the lots adjoining on each side are already improved, the setback
shall not be less than the average of the buildings on these lots; and
      (4)   No fence, wall, hedge, planting, or other obstruction to vision,
extending in excess of three feet above the ground level, shall be erected,
planted, or maintained within the area of a corner lot that is included between
the lines of the intersecting streets and a straight line connecting them a
point 20 feet from the intersection of the street lines.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 154.039 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Motor vehicle parking space shall be provided off the street or highway
right-of-way for each housekeeping unit in residential uses herein established,
and in case of other uses thereafter established or expanded, for employees,
for patrons, or for customers who usually park their motor vehicle one hour or
longer, and for customers served in their motor vehicle, in such proportion as
to assure free and uninterrupted movement of traffic on public streets or
highways.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5)
§ 154.040 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES, USES, LAND.
   (A)   Determination of non-conformities; restrictions. Any building or
structure, or use of any building or structure, or tract of land, lawfully
existing or under construction at the time of the adoption of this chapter or
of a later amendment, but whose location or use does not conform with that
required or permitted in the regulations herein, shall be non-conforming and
may remain and be continued. However, any alteration, enlargement, relocation,
or change in use of such building, structure, or tract of land shall be only as
follows.
      (1)   Expansions.
         (a)   A non-conforming use occupying a part of a building or structure
may be extended only throughout that part of the building or structure
originally designed for such use, but in no case shall an addition be made
which will provide for any expansion of the non-conforming use. A use is
clearly incidental to the amount used for residence.
         (b)   A non-conforming use of land shall not be expanded beyond the
area actually so used at the time of passage of this chapter, or at the time of
a later amendment creating the non-conformity.
      (2)   Change of use. Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a
use of higher classification or to a conforming use, such use shall not
thereafter be changed to one of a lower classification. In no case shall a
change in use be made to one of a lower classification.
      (3)   Discontinuance of use. If a non-conforming use is discontinued for
a period of one year, any further use of the structure or property shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Damage to structures. No building or structure devoted to a non-
conforming use which has been damaged by fire or otherwise, to the extent of
more than 50% of its full fair cash value at the time of loss, shall be
repaired or rebuilt, and no building or structure shall be thereafter erected
and used upon any land devoted to a non-conforming use, except in conformity
with the regulations of this chapter. The damaged building or structure shall
be demolished and removed from the corporate limits of the village.
      (5)   Repairs and maintenance. So long as a building or structure is used
or is eligible for use in a non-conforming manner, only ordinary repairs and
maintenance, including shingling of outer walls and replacement of roof
covering, shall be permitted. In no case shall the repairs include structural
alterations, veneering of outer walls, or other work which will extend
appreciably the normal life of the
building.
   (B)   Records kept. The Zoning Officer shall make and keep a record,
including photographs, of all buildings, structures, and land uses which do not
conform to the use regulations of the zone in which they are located.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6)
§ 154.041 LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Filing of plat. Whenever any parcel of land is to be split or divided,
the owner shall file with the Zoning Officer his or her intention to do so,
together with a true plat.
   (B)   Investigation; approval or denial. The Zoning Officer shall
investigate and determine if the proposed division is in accordance with the
purposes of this chapter and, within ten days, either approve or deny said
request. In the case of denial, the owner may appeal to the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (C)   Regulations. No lot or parcel of land shall be split or divided except
as herein provided; required lot areas, width, and yards shall be maintained.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) Penalty, see §
154.999
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
§ 154.055 R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Churches, libraries, and museums;
      (2)   Community buildings, and social and recreational centers of a
community nature;
      (3)   Forest preserve;
      (4)   Golf courses (except miniature courses and driving tees operated
for commercial use);
      (5)   Hospital, general, for human beings. This may include power plants,
residence for nurses, and similar facilities;
      (6)   One-family residence per lot of a permanent character, placed in a
permanent location;
      (7)   Private greenhouses and horticultural collections, and flower and
vegetable gardens (not commercial truck gardens);
      (8)   Public and community waterworks and fire stations;
      (9)   Publicly owned or leased parks, playgrounds, ball fields, athletic
fields, skating rinks, and swimming pools;
      (10)   Schools and colleges (either private or public) not operated for
profit;
      (11)   Signs; display of one sign only, pertaining to the sale, lease, or
identification of the premises, or the professional office or home occupation
permissible therein, which sign shall not be larger than five square feet in
area; and
      (12)   Trailer coaches if fully skirted or on a permanent foundation per
lot of a permanent character.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. No tent, shack, or basement of an unfinished house
after one year’s use shall be used for residence purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 154.056 R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   The following are permitted uses in the R-2 Zone:
   (A)   All uses permitted in R-1 Zones; and
   (B)   Dwellings for two families.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 154.057 R-3 APARTMENT AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   The following are permitted uses in the R-3 Zone:
   (A)   All uses permitted in R-1 and R-2 Zones; and
   (B)   Dwellings for three or more families, 700 square feet per unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3)
§ 154.058 R-4 SPARSELY OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   (A)   The following are permitted uses in the R-4 Zone:
      (1)   All uses permitted in R-1, R-2, and R-3 Zones; and
      (2)   Non-profit clubs, fraternities, sororities, and lodges, but not
including those whose chief activity is rendering services customarily provided
as a business, or whose activities may endanger life or property, or constitute
a public nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   Until duly rezoned for R-1 residential use, R-4 Zones may
continue to be used for agriculture and the stabling, housing, kenneling of
dogs, horses, cattle, mules, sheep, goats, poultry, swine, and other animals.
      (2)   No horses, cattle, mules, sheep, goats, swine, poultry, or other
animals may be stabled, housed, or kenneled on any tract of land less than ten
acres.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) Penalty, see §
154.999
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
§ 154.070 I-1 HEAVY COMMERCIAL AND LIGHT INDUSTRY ZONE.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses permitted in R-1 and R-2 Zones;
      (2)   Advertising signs, billboards, and poster panels;
      (3)   Banks, brokerage offices, and loan offices;
      (4)   Billiard halls, bowling alleys, pool rooms, theaters, and golf
driving ranges for commercial purposes;
      (5)   Business offices and agencies, such as: advertising, automobile,
employment, insurance, messenger, telephone, and travel;
      (6)   Gas stations, provided they conform to the regulations of the state
and have approval of the State Division of Fire Prevention;
      (7)   Hotels, restaurants, and motels, with motels operating at the rate
of not more than one unit per 1,000 square feet of lot area;
      (8)   Personal service shops, such as: barber, beauty, massage, reducing,
health, and bath;
      (9)   Professional offices, such as: architects, chemists, contractors,
dentists, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, surveyors, and
psychiatrists;
      (10)   Retail stores, including the following: antique shops, bakeries,
clothing, confectioneries, drugstores, dry goods stores, florist shops,
furniture stores, hardware stores, jewelry stores, laundry agencies, meat
markets, news agencies, notions, nurseries, paints and varnishes, radio and
television, sales and services, sporting goods, supermarkets, shopping centers,
watch repairing, yard goods, or fabric shops, and the like;
      (11)   Schools for gain, such as: business colleges; dramatic, dancing,
beauty, and culture schools; and private trade schools;
      (12)   Shops and studios, such as the following not employing more than
15 persons on the premises: bakeries, cleaning and dyeing plants, furrier
shops, locksmiths, motor and electric, painting and decorating, photography,
print shops, tailoring, and dressmaking; and
      (13)   Animal hospitals, assembly plants, blacksmith shops, bottling
plants, breweries, building material storage yards, cabinet shops, carpenter
shops, cleaning plants, concrete plants and products, chemical laboratories,
dairy products manufacture, fuel yards, garment manufacture, shooting
galleries, textile manufacture, and any similar businesses or enterprises
which, in the opinion of the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Village Board of
Trustees, are more obnoxious or detrimental to the health of occupants and
adjacent zones than those above mentioned.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any establishments serving beer, wine, or alcoholic beverages or
selling them at retail;
      (2)   Manufacture or storage of ammunition, dynamite, nitroglycerine, or
other high explosives in such manner or quantity as to be hazardous to persons
or property beyond the premises; and
      (3)   Motels, apartment hotels, apartment houses, tourist camps, and
trailer coach parks.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
§ 154.071 I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses permitted in I-1 Zones;
      (2)   Asphalt plants;
      (3)   Boiler works;
      (4)   Brick, tile, or other clay products manufacture;
      (5)   Concrete bulk mixing plants;
      (6)   Iron and steel manufacture;
      (7)   Oil refining;
      (8)   Plastic manufacture;
      (9)   Railroad shops; and
      (10)   Rolling mills.
   (B)   Uses expressly prohibited. Uses as stated in I-1 Zones.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses are to be considered separately due
to the characteristics of each:
      (1)   Airports;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Establishments and enterprises involving large assemblies of people
or automobiles, such as: commercial amusement parks, circuses, racetracks, open
air theaters, drag strips, mausoleums, mental hospitals, privately owned sewage
plants, radio and television transmitters (commercial), and any other unusual
or rare use; and
      (4)   Public sewage plants.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.085 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Zoning Enforcing Officer.
      (1)   Village President. This chapter shall be administrated and enforced
by the Village President, who shall also be referred to as the Zoning Enforcing
Officer, or Zoning Officer, as recommended by the Zoning Board, and with
approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   The Village President is hereby empowered to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The Village President shall be the custodian of an official copy
of the zoning map and, from time to time, shall make changes thereon as such
changes are duly authorized.
         (c)   The Zoning Officer shall have the power to order all work
stopped on the construction or repair of buildings or structures in the village
when such work is in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Village Clerk. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk and all
officers charged with issuance of permits to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Other officials. It shall be the duty of all village officials to
cooperate with the enforcing of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1)
§ 154.086 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Board established; membership; terms of office; appointment. A Zoning
Board of Appeals, hereby to be known as the Zoning Board, is hereby authorized
to be established. The Board of Appeals will consist of seven members to serve
respectively for the following terms: one for one year; one for two years; one
for three years; one for four years; one for five years; one for six years; and
one for seven years, the successor to each member so appointed to serve for a
term of five years. The Board will be appointed by the Village President and
confirmed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Vacancies in office. Vacancies shall be filled by the Village
President for the following reasons, subject to confirmation by the Village
Board of Trustees:
      (1)   Resignation of a member, submitted in writing, to the Village
President;
      (2)   Change of residence of a member outside of the incorporated limits
of the village;
      (3)   Death, or a disability of a member of such a nature to prevent
regular attendance of Zoning Board meetings; and
      (4)   Failure of a member to attend three consecutive meetings of the
Zoning Board without just cause or reason.
   (C)   Removal from office. Subject to the approval of the Village Board of
Trustees, the Village President shall have the power to remove any member of
the Zoning Board for cause, other than those in division (B) above, after due
notice (ten days) and a public hearing.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall serve
without compensation.
   (E)   Organization and procedures.
      (1)   Chairperson. The Zoning Board shall select one member as the
Chairperson.
      (2)   Meetings.
         (a)   All meetings shall be held at the call of its Chairperson or any
three members of the Zoning Board, or by the Village President subject to
confirmation by the Village Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Zoning Board shall be open to the public.
      (3)   Records and proceedings. As required by statute, the Zoning Board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings and actions showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact. Every rule, regulation, and amendment, or repeal thereof, and every
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Board shall be
immediately filed by the Zoning Enforcing Officer, and shall be a public
record.
   (F)   Hearings.
      (1)   Board decision. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide
appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Zoning Enforcing Officer. It shall also hear and decide all matters
referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under this chapter.
      (2)   Board decision reversed. The concurring vote of four members of the
Board of Appeals and a majority vote of the Village Board of Trustees shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Enforcing Officer, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect any
variations in the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2)
§ 154.087 EXPENDITURES OF ENFORCING OFFICER AND BOARD.
   In performance of their duties, the Zoning Enforcing Officer and the Zoning
Board of Appeals may incur such expenditures as may be authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-3)
§ 154.088 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   A written application for a permit shall be required stating the
legal description of the property as of public record and the name of the owner
and applicant. The application shall describe the uses to be established or
extended, and shall give the estimated cost and such other information as may
be required for the enforcement of this chapter, each copy of the application
being accompanied by a dimensional drawing of the building plot showing the
locations of buildings and structures, lot areas to be used, auto parking
facilities, and other pertinent information obtained from the Zoning Enforcing
Officer before starting:
         (a)   To establish any new use of property;
         (b)   To excavate or build any foundation;
         (c)   To erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, add on, or move any
building or structure;
         (d)   To change the use of any building, structure, or land from one
classification to another; or
         (e)   In the case of non-conforming use, to change from one use to
another.
      (2)   Permits shall be required for advertising signs and billboards,
except for sale or for rent signs.
      (3)   Any work or change in use authorized by permit, but not started or
made within 90 days, shall require a new permit.
      (4)   All owners of modular or mobile homes being placed on a privately
owned lot for a permanent residence will be required to obtain a permit from
the Village Clerk prior to installation of said home. This does not pertain to
homes located in a mobile home park.
   (B)   Permit fee. A fee of $50 shall be charged for each permit.
   (C)   Issuance or denial of permit. Within 30 days from the date of
acceptance of the application, the Zoning Enforcing Officer shall either issue
or deny the permit. If the permit is denied, reasons shall be given in writing
to the applicant. In the event there is no action on the permit within the 30-
day period, the applicant may appeal directly to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (D)   Compliance with state regulations. Any permit issued must meet state
pollution control and state environmental control requirements.
   (E)   Exemptions from permit. No permit shall be required for routine
maintenance or minor repairs of buildings, structures, or equipment such as
redecorating, repainting, remodeling, or reroofing.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-4)
Cross-reference:
   Permit requirements for mobile and modular homes, see §
151.02
§ 154.089 AMENDMENTS AND RE-ZONES.
   (A)   Authority and initiation.
      (1)   The Village Board of Trustees may, from time to time, alter report
thereon made by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and amend, supplement, or change
the regulations and zones herein, or as subsequently established.
      (2)   Such amendment or change may be initiated by the Village Board of
Trustees, Zoning Board of Appeals, or any petition of property owners
concerned. Such petitions shall be filed with the Zoning Officer, together with
a reasonable fee to defray the cost of publication and other services connected
therewith. Applications for rezoning or amendment shall require compliance with
the notice and public hearing section (§
154.091) of this chapter.
   (B)   Rezones.
      (1)   Whenever the owner of any land or building desires a
reclassification of property, he or she shall submit a form to the Zoning
Officer and list thereon:
         (a)   The legal description of the property;
         (b)   Proposed change; and
         (c)   A filing fee, which shall be determined from time to time by the
Village Board. A schedule of current fees is available from the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Said petition shall be signed, acknowledged, and filed with the
Zoning Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-5)
§ 154.090 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Hearing and notice. Where in a specific case, after written denial of
a permit by the Zoning Enforcing Officer, application for a variation is made
in writing to the Board of Appeals in which it is alleged that practical
difficulties or particular hardship, not intended or not common to other
property owners of property in the vicinity, will be imposed in carrying out
the letter of any such regulations, the Board of Appeals shall consider the
case at a public hearing, 15 days’ notice of which shall be given as prescribed
by statute, and the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether or not the
facts are such as to warrant a variation from the Comprehensive Zoning Plan,
and shall make a finding as to whether or not there is such practical
difficulty or hardship. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by
agent or attorney.
   (B)   Decisions. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the orders, requirements, decisions, or determinations as, in its
opinion, ought to be made in the premises, and to that end, shall have all the
powers of the Zoning Enforcing Officer. All decisions of the Board of Appeals
concerning variations shall be in harmony with the general purposes and intent
of this chapter, and in accordance with the rules set out in division (C)
below.
   (C)   Standards for variances. No variation will:
      (1)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
      (2)   Unduly increase the hazard from fire and other dangers to said
property;
      (3)   Diminish the value of land and buildings throughout the area;
      (4)   Unduly increase the congestion of traffic hazards on public streets
and highways; and
      (5)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort, and general
welfare of the inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-6)
§ 154.091 PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, an applicant for any action that
requires a public hearing must provide public notice of such hearing. Zoning
actions that require a public hearing are:
      (1)   Amendments (rezonings);
      (2)   Variances; and
      (3)   Conditional uses, including planned unit development preliminary
plans, but not planned unit development final plans.
   (B)   The required notice shall consist of the following actions.
      (1)   Sign display.
         (a)   Except in the case of applications for minor variances, the
applicant shall post a sign in the front yard of the affected property, facing
and visible from a public street and no further than 30 feet from the right-of-
way line.
         (b)   The sign shall conform to such requirements as to copy, size of
lettering, and other items as may be established by the Village Board.
         (c)   The sign shall be erected no less than 15 days prior to the date
of the scheduled public hearing and remain continuously in place until the
public hearing is concluded, but no more than ten days thereafter.
      (2)   Written notification.
         (a)   Except in the case of applications for minor variances, the
applicant shall also provide written notice of the public hearing to the owners
of record of each parcel of real estate abutting or across a street or alley
from any boundary of the property affected by the application.
         (b)   The owners of record, for this purpose, shall be considered
those appearing on the records of the County Recorder of Deeds or those who
paid property taxes for the most recent year according to the records of the
County Collector or County Treasurer.
         (c)   The written notice shall be delivered in person or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, not more than 30 days, nor less than 15 days,
prior to the scheduled date of public hearing.
         (d)   The written notice shall be substantially in the form of notice
provided by the Village Clerk. It shall contain:
            1.   The name and address of the owner and the applicant, if
different from the owner;
            2.   The street address, legal description, and a simple
description of the location of the subject property that will enable the
ordinary reader to accurately locate it;
            3.   The zoning action requested; and
            4.   The date, time, and location of the public hearing thereupon.
      (3)   Newspaper publication.
         (a)   The applicant shall publish a notice of the public hearing. This
requirement shall apply to all applications, including those for minor
variances.
         (b)   The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation that is published in the village at least 15 days, but no more than
30 days, before the scheduled date of the hearing. The published notice shall
contain the same information as is required for written notification in
division (B)(2) above.
         (c)   If a board or commission of the village, or the Village Board,
proposes amendment, the village shall be responsible for meeting this
requirement.
      (4)   Evidence of compliance. No later than the time of the public
hearing, the applicant shall file with the Village Clerk or the Zoning Board:
         (a)   An affidavit stating that he or she has complied with all notice
requirements herein;
         (b)   A copy of the written notice sent;
         (c)   A list of names and addresses of all owners of record of
property abutting the subject parcel;
         (d)   Signatures, on postal return receipts or in another form, of
those receiving the written notice; and
         (e)   A publisher’s certificate of publication of the required notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-7)
§ 154.092 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved, or any
official department, board, or bureau of the village may appeal to the Zoning
Board to review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Zoning Enforcing Officer, and any of the above may appeal to a court of record
concerning decisions made by the Zoning Board.
      (2)   Costs shall not be allowed against the Zoning Board, unless it
shall appear to the court that it acted with gross negligence or in bad faith,
or with malice in making decisions.
   (B)   (1)   The appeal shall be taken within 45 days of the action
complained of by filing, with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and
with the Board of Appeals, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
      (2)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to parties, and decide the appeal
within a reasonable time.
      (2)   Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or agent or by
attorney.
      (3)   The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as, in its
opinion, ought to be made in the premises, and to that end has the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-8)
§ 154.093 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administration and enforcement. This chapter shall be administered and
enforced by the Zoning Enforcing Officer. To that end, he or she shall have the
power to make such orders, requirements, decisions, and determinations as are
necessary with respect to applications for permits and the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   Court proceedings. In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any
other building, structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the
proper authorities in the village or any person, the value or use of whose
property is or may be affected by such violations, in addition to other
remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding in equity:
      (1)   To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use;
      (2)   To restrain, correct, or abate such violation;
      (3)   To prevent the occupancy of such building, structure, or land; or
      (4)   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-9)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, company, corporation, or any other agent, employee, or
contractor of such who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-9)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
      
II.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Intergovernmental agreement between the village and
-             - -         the County of Will for the provision of animal
                          protection services.
                          Intergovernmental agreement between the village, the
-             - -         Counties of Will and Grundy, and the Village Public
                          Water District for the collection of refuse and
                          recycling.
                          Intergovernmental agreement between the village and
-             - -         the Village Park District regarding emergency shelter
                          during disasters.
                         
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Vacation of a part of Adams Street lying south of
                          Block 3, north of Block 4, east of S.R. 53, and west
R. 20-01      7-27-2020   of Kankakee Street, also to vacate two intersecting
                          alleys south of Lincoln Street and west of Elm
                          Street.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
Illinois Compiled Statutes Code Section
Illinois Compiled Statutes Code Section
30 ILCS 725/1.2(d)         33.05
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.      34.16
35 ILCS 115/9              34.16
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.      34.17;
                           34.15
35 ILCS 120/3              34.15
55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq.  154.002
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1            10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1          10.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25        10.52
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1           34.15; 34.17
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5           34.16
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq.  150.38
410 ILCS 705/10-10         134.04
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.   70.04
625 ILCS 5/11-604          71.02
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.     130.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2025 Code
Prior Code 2025 Code
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.03
1-1-4      10.04
1-1-5      10.05
1-2-1      10.20
1-2-2      10.21
1-2-3      10.22
1-2-4      10.23
1-3-1      10.35
1-3-2      10.36
1-3-3      10.37
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.50;
           10.99
1-4-3      10.51
1-4-4      10.52
1-5-1      30.01
1-5-2      30.02
1-5-3      30.03;
           30.99
1-5-4      30.04
1-5-5      30.05
1-6-1      32.01
1-6A-1     32.20
1-6B-1     32.35
1-6C-1     32.50
1-6A-2     32.21
1-6B-2     32.36
1-6C-2     32.51
1-6A-3     32.22
1-6B-3     32.37
1-6C-3     32.52
1-6-2      32.02
1-6-3      32.03
1-6-4      32.04
1-6-5      32.05
1-6-6      32.06
1-6-7      32.07
1-6-8      32.08
1-6-9      32.09
1-7-1      34.01
1-8-1      31.01
1-8-2      11.01
1-8-3      32.23
2-1-1      33.01
2-1-2      33.02
2-1-3      33.03
2-1-4      33.04
2-1-5      33.05
2-1-6      33.06
3-1-1      110.01
3-1-2      110.02
3-1-3      110.03
3-1-4      110.04
3-1-5      110.05
3-1-6      110.06
3-1-7      110.07
3-1-8      110.08
3-1-9      110.09
3-1-10     110.10
3-1-11     110.11
3-1-12     110.99
3-2-1      34.15
3-2-2      34.16
3-2-3      34.17;
           34.99
3-4-1      111.01
3-4-2      111.02
3-4-3      111.03
3-4-4      111.99
3-5-1      112.01
3-5A-1     112.20
3-5B-1     112.35
3-5C-1     112.50
3-5-2      112.02
3-5A-2     112.21
3-5B-2     112.36
3-5C-2     112.51
3-5-3      112.03
3-5B-3     112.37
3-5C-3     112.52
3-5-4      112.04
3-5A-4     112.22
3-5B-4     112.38
3-5C-4     112.99
3-5-5      112.05
3-5A-5     112.23
3-5B-5     112.39
3-5-6      112.06
3-5A-6     112.99
3-5B-6     112.99
3-5-7      112.07
3-5-8      112.99
3-6A-1     113.01
3-6B-1     113.15
3-6A-2     113.02
3-6B-2     113.16
3-6A-3     113.03
3-6B-3     113.17
3-6A-4     113.04
3-6B-4     113.17
3-6A-5     113.99
3-6B-5     113.18
3-6B-6     113.19
3-6B-7     113.20
3-6B-8     113.21
3-6B-9     113.22
3-6B-10    113.23;
           113.99
3-7-1      114.01
3-7-2      114.02
3-7-3      114.03
3-7-4      114.99
3-8-1      115.01
3-8-2      115.02
3-8-3      115.03
3-8-4      115.04
3-8-6      115.99
4-1-1      90.001
4-1-2      90.002;
           90.999
4-1-3      90.003
4-2-1      90.015
4-2-2      90.016
4-2-3      90.017
4-2-4      90.999
4-3-1      90.030
4-3-2      90.031
4-3-3      90.032
4-3-4      90.033
4-3-5      90.034
4-3-6      90.035
4-3-7      90.999
4-4-1      91.01
4-4-2      91.02
4-4-3      91.99
5-1-1      35.01
5-1-2      35.02
5-1-3      35.03
5-2-1      92.01
5-2-2      92.02
5-2-3      92.03
5-2-4      92.04
5-2-5      92.05
5-2-6      92.99
5-2A-1     92.20
5-2A-2     92.21
5-2A-3     92.22
5-2A-4     92.23;
           92.99
5-2A-5     92.24
5-2A-6     92.25
5-2A-7     92.26;
           92.99
5-3-1      130.01
5-3-2-1    131.01
5-3-2-2    131.02
5-3-2-3    131.03
5-3-2-4    131.04
5-3-2-5    131.05
5-3-3-1    131.20
5-3-3-2    131.21
5-3-3-3    131.22
5-3-3-4    131.23
5-3-3-5    131.24
5-3-3-6    131.25
5-3-4-1    132.01
5-3-4-2    132.02
5-3-4-3    132.03
5-3-4-4    132.04
5-3-5-1    133.01
5-3-5-2    133.02
5-3-5-3    133.03
5-3-5-4    133.04
5-3-5-5    133.05
5-3-5-6    133.06
5-3-6-1    134.01
5-3-6-2    134.02
5-3-6-3    134.03
5-3-7-1    132.15
5-3-7-2    132.16
5-3-7-3    132.17
5-3-7-4    132.18
5-3-7-5    132.19
5-3-8      133.07
5-3-9      134.04
5-3-10     130.99
5-4-1      135.01
6-1-1      70.01
6-1-2      70.02
6-1-3      70.03
6-1-4      70.04
6-1-5      70.05
6-1-6      70.06
6-1-7      70.07
6-1-8      70.08
6-1-9      70.09;
           70.99
6-1-10     70.10
6-1-11     70.26
6-2-1      71.01
6-2-2      71.02
6-2-3      71.03
6-2-4      71.04
6-2-5      71.05
6-2-6      71.06
6-2-7      71.07
6-2-8      71.08
6-2-9      71.09
6-2-10     71.10
6-2-11     71.11
6-3-1      72.01
6-3-2      72.02
6-3-3      72.03
6-3-4      72.04
6-3-5      72.05
6-3-6      72.06
6-3-7      72.07
6-3-8      72.08
6-3-9      72.09
6-4-1      70.25
6-4-2      70.26;
           70.99
7-1-1      152.01
7-1-2      152.02
7-1-3      152.03
7-1-4      152.04
7-1-5      152.05
7-1-6      152.06
7-1-7      152.07
7-1-8      152.08
7-1-9      152.09
7-1-10     152.10
7-1-11     152.11
7-1-12     152.12
7-1-13     152.99
7-1A-1     152.25
7-1B-1     152.40
7-1C-1     152.55
7-1A-2     152.26
7-1B-2     152.41
7-1C-2     152.56
7-1A-3     152.27
7-1B-3     152.42
7-1C-3     152.57
7-1C-4     152.58
7-1C-5     152.99
7-2-1      153.01
7-2-2      153.02
7-2-3      153.03
7-2-4      153.04
7-2-5      153.05
7-2-6      153.99
7-2A-1     153.20
7-2A-2     153.21
7-2A-3     153.22
7-2A-4     153.23
7-2A-5     153.24
7-2A-6     153.25
7-2A-7     153.99
7-3-1      150.20
7-3-2      150.21
7-3-3      150.99
8-1-1      150.01
8-1-2      150.02
8-1-3      150.03;
           150.99
8-2-1      151.01
8-2-2      151.02
8-2-3      151.03
8-2-4      151.04
8-2-5      151.05
8-2-7      151.07
8-2-8      151.99
8-3-1      150.35
8-3-2      150.36
8-3-3      150.37
8-3-5      150.39
8-3-6      150.99
9-1-1      154.001
9-1-2      154.002
9-1-3      154.003
9-1-4      154.004
9-1-5      154.005
9-2-1      154.020
9-2-2      154.021
9-2-3      154.022
9-3-1      154.035
9-3-2      154.036
9-3-3      154.037
9-3-4      154.038
9-3-5      154.039
9-3-6      154.040
9-3-7      154.041
9-4-1      154.055
9-4-2      154.056
9-4-3      154.057
9-4-4      154.058
9-5-1      154.070
9-5-2      154.071
9-6-1      154.085
9-6-2      154.086
9-6-3      154.087
9-6-4      154.088
9-6-5      154.089
9-6-6      154.090
9-6-7      154.091
9-6-8      154.092
9-6-9      154.093;
           154.999
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
84-04    6-25-1984   32.23
91-10    5-13-1991   32.09
93-06    10-26-1992  71.02
94-01    11-8-1993   151.03
20-01    7-27-2020   TSO Table II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         134.04;
                     134.99
-        - -         151.06
08-02    - -         150.04
92-06    - -         132.16
82-04    10-2-1982   134.01
84-01    8-8-1983    30.03
84-08    1-9-1984    34.17;
                     34.99
84-09    2-13-1984   34.17;
                     34.99
85-06A   5-13-1985   70.26;
                     70.99
85-07    5-13-1985   32.35
86-03    9-9-1985    135.01
87-04    6-8-1987    150.03
                     92.02;
87-05    6-8-1987    92.03;
                     92.25
88-02    7-13-1987   10.52
89-04    9-26-1988   34.01
89-08    5-22-1989   90.015
90-02    11-14-1989  92.05
91-03    9-24-1990   92.05
92-02    9-9-1991    32.08
92-08    6-8-1992    70.25
                     151.02—
93-09    2-22-1993   151.07;
                     151.99
                     90.050—
94-14    7-11-1995   90.064;
                     90.999
96-04    1-8-1996    30.03
97.02    7-22-1996   92.23
                     90.030—
97-04    9-23-1996   90.035;
                     90.999
97-12    6-23-1997   150.02
98-03    12-15-1997  152.26
99-01    12-21-1998  32.07
-        9-27-1999   35.01—
                     35.03
04-06    3-22-2004   115.05;
                     115.99
05-06    3-28-2005   90.075;
                     90.999
07-02    7-24-2006   92.23
07-05    4-23-2007   135.15
08-01    8-27-2007   72.09
-        1-28-2008   151.02—
                     151.04
09-03    8-25-2008   90.018
16-04    3-28-2016   36.01—
                     36.03
                     90.050—
16-05    5-23-2016   90.064;
                     90.999
17-03    10-24-2016  90.033
18-03    8-28-2017   150.06;
                     150.99
19-02    7-22-2019   150.04
20-04    10-26-2020  150.05;
                     150.99
                     92.40—
22-12    3-25-2024   92.43;
                     92.99
22-15    7-22-2024   150.38
                    
 
