VILLAGE CODE
of
GOLF, ILLINOIS
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-04, passed September 11, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Golf, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2023-04, passed September 11, 2023. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 03-03
   AN ORDINANCE APPROVING REVISIONS
   TO THE GOLF VILLAGE CODE
   WHEREAS, the Village of Golf (the "Village") is a home rule municipality in
accordance with the constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970; and
   WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the health, safety and welfare of its citizens; and
   WHEREAS, the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-3)
authorize the Village Board to revise the Golf Village Code ("Code"); and
   WHEREAS, the Code was last revised on March 13, 1989; and
   WHEREAS, the corporate authorities have determined that it is in the best
interests of the Village to revise the Code.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees that
the Code be and hereby is amended as follows:
   SECTION 1:  That the facts and statements contained in the preamble to this
Ordinance are found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of
this Ordinance.
   SECTION 2: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Code is
hereby revised ("Revised Code").
   SECTION 3: The Revised Code contains the compilation of all ordinances of a
general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the corporate authorities of the Village.
   SECTION 4: The Revised Code shall be accepted in all courts without question
as the official code and law of the Village as enacted by the Village President
and Board of Trustees.
   SECTION 5: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
currently provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted
ordinance of a general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or
deleting provisions of the Revised Code is identified by the proper catchline
and inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies of the Revised
Code, one copy of which shall be maintained in the Office of the Village Clerk,
certified as to correctness and available for inspection in accordance with the
laws of the State of Illinois during regular Village business hours.
   SECTION 6: All ordinances of a general nature included in the Revised Code
shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the corporate
authorities from the Revised Code shall not serve to cause any interruption in
the continuous effectiveness of ordinances included in the Revised Code.
   SECTION 7: All ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances,
bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances
which are not intended to be included within the Revised Code shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision
within the Revised Code.
   SECTION 8: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the Revised
Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper
with the Revised Code in any manner whatsoever.
   SECTION 9: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION 10: This Ordinance and the Revised Code shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and publication in book or pamphlet form in
accordance with law, by order of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   ADOPTED this 19th day of May, 2003.
      AYES:   Bob Bolt
         Bob Carson
         John Tillman
         Dale Walsh
      NAYS:   None
      ABSENT:   Chessy Gould
            Paul Nelson
   APPROVED by me this 19th day of May, 2003.
                                                             
   President of the Village of Golf
   Cook County, Illinois
ATTESTED AND FILED
in my office this 19th day
of May, 2003.
                                            
Clerk of the Village of Golf
Cook County, Illinois
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of trustees, this village code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the village.
This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the GOLF VILLAGE
CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the village board of trustees
and shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this village code by title in any legal document. (1989 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This village code, as hereby presented in published form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1989 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this village code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this village code. All
ordinance amendments shall be prepared for insertion in the proper place in
each copy of this village code, and each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
village code. (Ord., 4-12-1993; amd. 2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this village code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the village board of trustees. The village clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the village clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this
village code shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and
efficient manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the
office of the village clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
village and shall be returned to the office of the village clerk when directed
to do so by order of the village board. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; ordinances relating to the transfer or
acceptance of real estate by or from the village; bond ordinances; zoning map
changes; and all special ordinances. (1989 Code; amd. 2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1989 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1989 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The village board of trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
As used in this code, the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary, and
the word "may" is permissive.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1989 Code; amd. 2003
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of trustees of the village.
CODE: The village code of Golf, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Cook, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Golf".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of each year
and end on April 30.
LICENSE: The permission granted for automobiles, domestic pets, or the carrying
on of a business, profession or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village, or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Golf".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Golf, county of Cook, state of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may be referred to as "mayor"
or "village president".
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1989 Code; amd. Ord., 6-11-1990)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Violations Classified; Fines
1-4-2: General Penalty
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-5: Recovery Of Expenses
1-4-1: VIOLATIONS CLASSIFIED; FINES:
   A.   Fines: Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision
of this code shall be punished by a fine as established for the class of
violation indicated in that section or provision, as follows:
 
Class A At least $10.00, but not to exceed $50.00
Class B At least 50.00, but not to exceed 200.00
Class C At least 100.00, but not to exceed 500.00
Class D At least 200.00, but not to exceed 1,000.00
 
(1989 Code)
   B.   Past Due Payments:
      1.   An administrative charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be added
to the fine for a class A penalty after the first month past the due date.
      2.   An administrative charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
added to the fine for a class B, C or D penalty, plus twenty percent (20%) of
the penalty, but not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than fifty dollars
($50.00), for each additional month or portion of a month past the due date.
(Ord. 98-7, 12-14-1998)
1-4-2: GENERAL PENALTY:
Where no other penalty is set forth, any person convicted of a violation of any
section or provision of this code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any offense 1 . (1989 Code; amd. 2003
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1989 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1989 Code)
1-4-5: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
If a judgment or decision of any tribunal is in favor of the village in any
legal proceeding commenced by or on behalf of the village pursuant to this
code, the village's costs, including reasonable attorney fees, shall be allowed
in favor of the village and against the defending party. (Ord. 98-7, 12-14-
1998)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Conduct Of Village Government
1-5-2: Home Rule
1-5-3: Meetings Of The Board
1-5-4: Elective Officers
1-5-5: Appointed Officers
1-5-6: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-5-6-1: Definitions
1-5-6-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-5-6-3: Gift Ban
1-5-6-4: Ethics Advisor
1-5-6-5: Penalties
1-5-1: CONDUCT OF VILLAGE GOVERNMENT:
The government of the village shall at all times be conducted pursuant and
subject to the Illinois municipal code 1 , except when the village's home rule
powers are invoked. (Ord., 3-14-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
1-5-2: HOME RULE:
The village of Golf is a home rule municipality, under article VII, section 6
(a) 1  of the 1970 Illinois constitution, by majority vote of the citizens of
the village at a referendum on November 9, 1976, as certified by the Cook
County board of election commissioners. (1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 10 ILCS 5/28-4.
1-5-3: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the board of trustees shall
be held on the second Monday in each month at the hour of eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. at the village hall.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the board of trustees may be
called by the president of the board of trustees or by any three (3) trustees.
   C.   Conduct Of Meetings: Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the state law and the proceedings thereof shall be
governed by "Robert's Rules Of Order". (Ord., 3-14-1949)
1-5-4: ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Designation; Terms Of Office: The village board of trustees, the
president of the board and the village clerk shall be the elective officers of
the village, who are qualified electors of the village and have resided therein
at least one year next preceding their election or appointment, and they shall
qualify for election and be elected in a manner provided by the applicable
provisions of state law 1  for a term of four (4) years. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
   B.   Salaries: The salaries of the elective officers of the village shall be
as follows:
 
President of the board of trustees $ 1.00 per annum
Members of the board of trustees   1.00 per annum
Village clerk                      2,760.00 per annum
 
(Ord., 1-12-1981, eff. 5-1-1981; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
   C.   Oath Of Office; Bonds: Immediately following the election of such
elective officers and before entering upon their respective duties, they shall
take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-14-3 and the president of the board of trustees and the village
clerk shall each execute a bond at the minimum level in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-14-3.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The respective powers and duties of the trustees,
the president of the board of trustees and the village clerk shall be as
prescribed by state law 2 . (Ord., 3-14-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
   E.   Special Responsibility: From time to time and for such periods as may
be appropriate, the village president, with the advice and consent of the
village board of trustees, may designate any one trustee as having special
responsibility with respect to any one or more areas of village government or
any one or more specific matters of interest to the village. Responsibilities
may be adjusted, or ad hoc work groups appointed, by the village president,
with the advice and consent of the village board. Trustees' areas of
responsibility may comprise, but are not limited to, public buildings, public
grounds, roadways, parking lot, lighting, water, sewer, utilities, scavenger
service, zoning, maps and surveys, ordinances, licenses, equipment, supplies,
police, fire, paramedic and emergency services, programs, planning, budget,
finance, audit, fiscal reporting and performance standards. In discharging such
responsibility, any trustee so designated may seek the advice or assistance of
the board of trustees or any individual trustee; may conduct fact finding
activities; may participate in nonbinding discussions; and may make
recommendations to the village board of trustees. Except as part of a proper
quorum at a duly convened meeting of the village board, no trustee shall
purport to act as a public body or a committee; convey any decision on behalf
of the village; or conduct definitive deliberations regarding any proposed
action to be taken on behalf of the village. (Ord. 9409, 10-10-1994)
   F.   President Pro Tem: Should the village president be temporarily unable
to perform the duties of the office, then the village board shall elect one of
the village trustees to act as president pro tem. If the village president is
only to be absent from a meeting, then the village president may appoint one of
the village trustees to serve as temporary chair of the meeting 3 . (2003 Code)
   G.   Appointment Of Deputy Clerk: The village clerk is hereby authorized to
appoint one deputy clerk. (Ord. 2013-06, 9-9-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-2.
2 2. 65 ILCS.
3 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35.
1-5-5: APPOINTED OFFICERS:
   A.   Creation And Appointment: There are hereby created the following
appointive offices of the village: (Ord. 2013-06, 9-9-2013)
Village treasurer, a person with experience in financial reporting. (Ord. 2014-
04, 7-14-2014)
Village attorney, a member of the legal profession.
Village engineer, a qualified engineer.
Village health officer, a member of the medical profession.
Building commissioner, a qualified architect, or other person knowledgeable in
the building trades.
Village architect, a licensed architect.
Deputy clerk, a qualified elector of the village and who has resided therein at
least one year next preceding his or her appointment to the office of deputy
clerk.
Biennially, at the May meeting in each odd numbered year, or as vacancies
occur, the president of the board of trustees, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees, shall appoint the treasurer and such other officers as
the president shall deem necessary to serve until the May meeting in the next
odd numbered year. (Ord. 2013-06, 9-9-2013)
   B.   Salaries: The board of trustees shall annually, in the annual
appropriation ordinance, fix the salaries of the officers named in subsection A
of this section.
   C.   Oath Of Office; Bond: Immediately following their appointment and
before entering upon their duties, these officials shall take and subscribe the
oath of office prescribed in, and execute a bond at the minimum level in
accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-30.
   D.   Duties:
      1.   Village Treasurer: The duties of the village treasurer shall be as
prescribed by state law.
      2.   Village Attorney: The duties of the village attorney shall be to
counsel and advise the village authorities on all legal matters and otherwise
render such legal service as may be requested by the village authorities.
      3.   Village Engineer: The duties of the village engineer shall be to
counsel and advise the village authorities on all engineering matters and
otherwise render such engineering service as may be requested by the village
authorities.
      4.   Village Health Officer: The duties of the village health officer
shall be to counsel and advise the village authorities on all matters relating
to public health and sanitation in the village and its immediate environs, to
establish liaison with the state and county public health authorities for the
purpose of assisting in the enforcement of the rules and regulations thereof in
the village and to otherwise render such service as may be requested by the
village authorities. (Ord., 3-14-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
      5.   Building Commissioner: The building commissioner's duties shall be
as follows:
         a.   Administer and enforce the building provisions of this code.
         b.   Design and revise, from time to time when in his judgment
revision is necessary, suitable forms for ready administration of this code,
such as: 1) building permit application; 2) building permit; and 3) certificate
of occupancy.
         c.   Examine all plans and specifications presented to him in
connection with applications for building permits.
         d.   Issue pertinent applications, permits and certificates in
accordance with the provisions of the building regulations of this code.
         e.   Determine the fees, make the charges and secure the deposits in
accordance with the terms of the building regulations of this code. (Ord., 2-9-
1948)
         f.   Maintain copies of the rules and regulations, hereinafter adopted
by reference, at the village hall for examination by any interested person.
(Ord., 2-9-1948; amd. 2003 Code)
         g.   Administer and enforce the zoning regulations of this code 1 .
(2003 Code)
         h.   Keep such records and make such periodic reports to the village
board of trustees as in his judgment are necessary or as required by the
village board.
         i.   Make frequent and periodic inspections of any and all work in
process coming within the purview of the building regulations of this code. It
shall be the responsibility of the property owner to provide timely access for
such inspections.
         j.   Make such recommendations for amending or revising the building
regulations of this code or in obtaining expert opinions regarding the
administration of the building regulations of this code, as in his judgment he
deems necessary, to further protect or benefit the village. (Ord., 2-9-1948;
amd. 1989 Code)
      6.   Village Architect: The duties of the village architect shall be to
provide advice and counsel to the building commissioner and village board as
required. (Ord., 6-11-1990)
      7.   Deputy Clerk: The deputy clerk shall discharge the functions and
duties of the village clerk in the absence of the village clerk from the
village hall, only when either: a) written direction has been given by the
village clerk to the deputy clerk to exercise one or more powers of the village
clerk or b) the corporate authorities have determined by resolution that the
village clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform that
function. (Ord. 2013-06, 9-9-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
1-5-6: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
1-5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
1-5-6, certain terms contained in this section
1-5-6 are defined as follows:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this section
1-5-6, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Golf, whether on a full time or
part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Golf.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 04-03,
5-3-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 3. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-5-6-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this section.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-03, 5-3-2004)
1-5-6-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   The state gift ban act is hereby readopted as required by section 83 of
the act.
   B.   Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   C.   This section is not applicable to the following exceptions which are
mutually exclusive and independent of every other exception:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   D.   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee, does not violate this section if the
recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited
source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered,
or succeeded. (Ord. 04-03, 5-3-2004)
1-5-6-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The village president, with the advice and consent of the village
trustees, shall designate an ethics advisor for the village. The duties of the
ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village unless
the position has been created as an office by the village.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this section
1-5-6 and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall perform such other duties
as may be delegated by the village board. (Ord. 04-03, 5-3-2004)
1-5-6-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-5-6-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-5-6-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this section
1-5-6 to the local enforcement authorities, the state's attorney or any other
law enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-5-6-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an
attorney for the village by filing in the circuit court an information, or
sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   E.   A violation of section
1-5-6-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village.
   F.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-5-6-2 or
1-5-6-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge by the village
board. (Ord. 04-03, 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association
1-6-2: Annual Appropriations
1-6-3: Annual Tax Levy
1-6-4: Annual Audit
1-6-5: Bills; Payroll; Bank Accounts
1-6-6: Returned Checks
1-6-7: Annual Fee Schedule
1-6-1: ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL LEAGUE RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION:
The village board does hereby authorize and approve membership in the Illinois
Municipal League Risk Management Association. Membership contributions shall be
calculated in accordance with the municipal budget formula taking into
consideration total operating expenditures of the village (less specific
exclusions), loss experience of the village and total losses and expenditures
of the self-insured retention fund of the association. (Ord., 6-13-1983; amd.
1989 Code)
1-6-2: ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS:
During the first quarter of each fiscal year, the village board shall enact an
appropriation ordinance in which shall be itemized all anticipated expenditures
for the coming fiscal year, other than those payable from bond issues. Such
ordinance shall be published within ten (10) days after its enactment. (2003
Code)
1-6-3: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
   A.   After publication of the appropriation ordinance, a tax levy ordinance
shall be enacted levying such taxes as may be needed to meet the anticipated
expenses of the coming year, together with such taxes as may be required to
meet outstanding bond issues or for purposes payable from special taxes
properly authorized.
   B.   A certified copy of the tax levy ordinance shall be filed with the Cook
County clerk not later than the last Tuesday in December. (2003 Code)
1-6-4: ANNUAL AUDIT:
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and not later than six
(6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the village
made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
Illinois, to be designated by the village board. Copies of such audit report
shall be filed with the comptroller of the state of Illinois not later than
September 30 of each year. (2003 Code)
1-6-5: BILLS; PAYROLL; BANK ACCOUNTS:
All bills payable by the village, other than for the payment of salaries and
health insurance premiums, shall be submitted to the village board for approval
before payment except when time constraints mandate that a payment be made by
manual check before the next meeting of the village board. Such payment by
manual check must be authorized by two (2) of the following: village president,
village clerk, village treasurer or authorized village trustee, and such
payments shall not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). In addition, all
manual checks issued shall be presented at the next village board meeting for
ratification. The village president, village clerk, village treasurer or
authorized village trustee (such trustee to be authorized by specific
resolution or motion adopted from time to time) are hereby authorized to become
signers on each bank account authorized to be opened by the village board, and
the village president and village clerk are hereby authorized to execute and
deliver such bank resolutions on behalf of the village as may be necessary to
confirm such check signing authority. (Ord. 2016-03, 6-13-2016)
1-6-6: RETURNED CHECKS:
A check submitted for payment of a penalty or any other fee or charge payable
to the village and returned by a financial institution, shall incur a charge of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) added to the penalty, fee or charge. (Ord. 98-7,
12-14-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6-7: ANNUAL FEE SCHEDULE:
The board of trustees may adopt an annual ordinance setting forth the
applicable fees and charges due for the various licenses, permits and services
authorized by this code and by other ordinances of the village. The board of
trustees may also adopt amendments to such ordinance from time to time.
Whenever reference is made to the "annual fee schedule", such reference shall
mean the schedule of fees set forth in the current annual ordinance and any
amendments thereto, adopted pursuant to this section. By this reference, the
annual fee schedule, as the same may, from time to time, be amended, is hereby
incorporated herein as if fully set forth herein. Whenever any provision of
this code provides for a fee or charge, said provision may be changed from time
to time by the adoption of the annual fee schedule or amendment thereto,
without a specific amendment to any section of this code. (Ord. 2009-06, 7-13-
2009)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Official Seal
1-7-2: General Elections
1-7-1: OFFICIAL SEAL:
The official seal of the village shall be circular in form, with the words
"VILLAGE OF GOLF", "Cook County, Illinois" inscribed in the outer circle, and
the words "Incorporated 1928", "Village Seal" inscribed in the inner circle.
(2003 Code)
1-7-2: GENERAL ELECTIONS:
The election for elective officers of the village shall be known as the general
election of the village and shall be held biennially on the first Tuesday of
April in each odd numbered year for the election of qualified candidates to
such elective offices that shall be vacant by reason of the expiration of the
term of such office. General elections shall be conducted under the supervision
of the village board of trustees in accordance with the applicable provisions
of the Illinois municipal code and the Illinois election codes 1 . (Ord., 3-14-
1949)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS and 10 ILCS.
CHAPTER 8
TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Title And Scope
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Notices
1-8-4: Payments
1-8-5: Credits And Refunds
1-8-6: Audit Procedures
1-8-7: Appeals
1-8-8: Hearing
1-8-9: Interest And Penalties
1-8-10: Abatement
1-8-11: Installment Contracts
1-8-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-8-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-8-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-8-15: Internal Review Procedures
1-8-1: TITLE AND SCOPE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE, and the provisions shall
apply to the village's procedures in connection with all of the village's
locally imposed and administered taxes. This chapter shall be liberally
construed and administered to supplement all of the village's tax ordinances.
To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with
this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
HEARING OFFICER: An administrative individual appointed by the corporate
authorities to conduct hearings and issue final determinations regarding the
collection of all locally imposed and administered taxes.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village clerk or, alternatively another
administrative official appointed by the corporate authorities, is charged with
the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead.
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax,
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Golf, Illinois. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
1-8-3: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-4: PAYMENTS:
   A.   Late Payment: Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is: 1) physically received by the village on or before the due
date; or 2) received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   B.   Application Of Payment: Any payment or remittance received for a tax
period shall be applied in the following order: 1) first to the tax due for the
applicable period; 2) second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
3) third to the penalty for the applicable period. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-5: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-6: AUDIT PROCEDURES:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any,
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-7: APPEALS:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-8: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-8-7 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-9: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax, at twelve
percent (12%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 01-01,
4-9-2001)
1-8-10: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed. (Ord.
01-01, 4-9-2001)
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax. return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 01-01, 4-9-2001)
1-8-15: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURES:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 01-
01, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 9
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-9-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-9-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-9-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-9-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-9-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-9-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Golf to prohibit harassment of
any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal
officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 2018-02, 1-8-2018)
1-9-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   C.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person". (Ord. 2018-02, 1-8-2018)
1-9-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 2018-
02, 1-8-2018)
1-9-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation 3 .
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate
against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 2018-02, 1-8-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-9-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition On Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 2018-02, 1-8-2018)
1-9-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 2018-02, 1-8-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Authority To Establish
2-1-2: Vacancies; Compensation
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH:
Certain boards and commissions are established by village ordinance. Such
additional boards and commissions as are authorized by the Illinois municipal
code 1  may be established by the village president with the approval of the
village board of trustees. (Ord., 3-14-1949)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
2-1-2: VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
Biennially, at the May meeting in each odd numbered year, or as vacancies
occur, the village president, with the advice and consent of the village board
of trustees, shall fill such vacancies on each such board and commission, as is
established by ordinance or otherwise, as shall exist at the time by reason of
the expiration of the term of membership thereof. (Ord., 3-14-1949; amd. 1989
Code)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of boards and commissions shall be as prescribed by the
statute, ordinance or resolution establishing them. (Ord., 3-14-1949)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Appointment, Terms Of Office, Qualifications, Officers, Quorum, Removal
And Vacancies
2-2-2: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: APPOINTMENT, TERMS OF OFFICE, QUALIFICATIONS, OFFICERS, QUORUM, REMOVAL
AND VACANCIES:
   A.   Members; Terms: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of between
five (5) and seven (7) members appointed by the Village President and confirmed
by the Village Board. Each member of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall serve
for a term ending at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. on the second Monday of
June in the next odd-numbered year after appointment in which the consolidated
election to fill the Office of Village President occurs, or until a successor
has been appointed.
   B.   Qualifications: All members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
residents of the Village.
   C.   Officers: The Village President shall designate one of the members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals to serve as its Chairperson. The Chairperson shall
hold that office until his or her successor is appointed. Such Chairperson or,
in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel
attendance of witnesses.
   D.   Quorum; Vote Required: Four (4) members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business. Any matter or
recommendation before the Zoning Board of Appeals will be approved upon
receiving the concurring vote of four (4) or more members present and voting at
such meeting.
   E.   Removal: The Village President, with the approval of the Village Board,
shall have the power to remove any members of the Zoning Board of Appeals for
cause and after a hearing before the Village Board.
   F.   Vacancies: Vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled for
the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant, in the manner
provided in this section for the appointment of a member. (Ord. 2017-07, 9-11-
2017)
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be in accordance
with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-3-3, and such other duties as set out
in the Village building, zoning and subdivision ordinances and/or as directed
by the Village Board. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-1-3: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
village shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the
report to the state department of revenue required by section three of "an act
in relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28,
1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month. (Ord., 9-8-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this village shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month the report to the state
department of revenue required by section nine of the service occupation tax
act, approved July 10, 1961, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord., 9-
8-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-1-3: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in this village at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month the report
to the state department of revenue required by sections two and three of "an
act in relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June
29, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord., 1-11-1982)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 155/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL; RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: State Liquor Laws Adopted
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: Licenses Required
3-2-4: Eligibility For Licenses
3-2-5: Issuance Of Licenses; Scope
3-2-6: License Fee And Number
3-2-7: Term Of License
3-2-8: Change Of Location
3-2-9: Closing Hours
3-2-10: Sanitary Conditions
3-2-11: Inspections
3-2-12: Minors
3-2-13: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-2-14: Revocation Of License
3-2-1: STATE LIQUOR LAWS ADOPTED:
All of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act 1  and of the rules
and regulations issued by the Illinois liquor control commission which are or
may hereafter be in force and which are applicable to the village are hereby
incorporated into and declared to be a part of this chapter the same as if they
were expressly set forth herein. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The village president is hereby designated, in accordance with the Illinois
statute, as the local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
3-2-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to maintain or operate a restaurant or any
establishment for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, whether or not such
alcoholic liquor is consumed on the premises where sold, without having first
obtained a license as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968; amd.
2003 Code)
3-2-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSES:
No license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, whether or not for consumption
on the premises, or to maintain or operate a restaurant, shall be issued to any
person other than a club with premises classified as PCC property district land
under the village's zoning ordinance 1 . (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
3-2-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; SCOPE:
Licenses shall be issued upon application of an applicant eligible under
section
3-2-4 of this chapter, executed in the name and on behalf of such applicant by
its president or one of its vice presidents under applicant's seal attested by
its secretary or an assistant secretary and duly verified by such executing
officer, which application shall set forth such facts as may be necessary to
demonstrate applicant's eligibility for a license.
The village president shall issue all such retail liquor licenses issued under
the provisions of this chapter.
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall authorize the licensee, for
the term of the license and subject to the provisions thereof and this chapter,
to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, both sales for consumption on the premises
and other retail sales, to maintain and operate a restaurant and to sell
cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, soft drinks, confections and ice cream. (Ord. 68-
3, 7-31-1968)
3-2-6: LICENSE FEE AND NUMBER:
   A.   Fee: Each license shall be issued only upon payment to the village of
an annual fee in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or a
lesser amount determined by reducing the annual fee in proportion to the full
calendar months of year of issuance expiring prior to such issuance. (Ord., 6-
8-1992)
   B.   Number: No more than one license under this chapter shall be issued and
be in effect at any time. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
3-2-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each such license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall terminate
on December 31 next following its issuance. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
3-2-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor and the maintenance and
operation of a restaurant only in the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the village president with the approval of the village board.
(Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-9: CLOSING HOURS:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
in the village between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M.; except, that on Sunday the closing hours shall be from two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-10: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or
for the storage of such liquor for such sale, or for a restaurant, or for the
storage of food for human consumption in such restaurant shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for a restaurant, any person who is
afflicted with or who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal
disease; and it shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a
carrier of any such diseases to work in or about any premises or to engage in
any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor or food for
human consumption in any such restaurant. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
3-2-11: INSPECTIONS:
The village health officer shall make periodic inspections of licensed premises
to determine the adequacy of kitchen, dining room and alcoholic liquor
dispensing facilities, including facilities for storage and preparation of food
destined for human consumption, the sanitary conditions of such premises and
the health of employees of the restaurants and those engaged in alcoholic
liquor sale. Each licensee, by acceptance of his license, shall agree to permit
and cooperate in such inspection. All expenses related to such inspections
shall be borne by the licensee. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-12: MINORS:
Any person being under the age of twenty one (21) years who shall obtain from
the proprietor of any license any intoxicating liquors under the false pretense
of being then of age shall, upon conviction, be subject to a class C penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968; amd. 1989 Code)
3-2-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   B.   Intoxication: No person shall be drunk nor shall be in a state of
intoxication in any street, avenue or public place or in any private house or
place to the disturbance of any other person. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968)
3-2-14: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The village president may revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter
for any substantial violation of any provisions hereof or for any substantial
violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor, subject
to the approval of the village board of trustees. The licensee shall have
thirty (30) days in which to file an appeal with the village president before
the revocation becomes effective. Upon receipt of an appeal, the village
president shall schedule a special meeting of the village board of trustees
within thirty (30) days to hear evidence for and against revocation. In the
event that the village board of trustees affirms the revocation by majority
vote of the trustees present, the revocation shall become effective
immediately. (Ord. 68-3, 7-31-1968; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Certificate Of Registration
3-3-3: Application For Certificate
3-3-4: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
3-3-5: Policy On Soliciting
3-3-6: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-3-7: Duty Of Solicitors
3-3-8: Time Limit On Soliciting
3-3-9: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-3-10: Streets And Public Ways, Restrictions
3-3-11: General Prohibitions
3-3-12: Registration Fee
3-3-13: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meaning herein ascribed thereto:
BUSINESS: Every lodging, office or other commercial business use, whether
located in an office suite, shopping center, restaurant or stand alone store or
building.
COMMERCIAL SOLICITING: Any door to door soliciting for the purpose of: a)
seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description whatever, for any
kind of consideration whatever; b) seeking to obtain prospective customers for
application or purchase of insurance of any type, kind or character; or c)
seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers
and every other type or kind of publication; but commercial solicitation shall
not include the sale of goods, whether for present or future delivery, by
persons as part of fundraising activities for local schools or youth
organizations, nor shall it include any activity that constitutes exempt
soliciting.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITING: Going upon the premises on which any residence or
business in the village is located and: a) placing or attaching advertisements,
fliers or other written materials on vehicles in driveways or parking areas,
mailboxes, fences, gates, or entrances to such residence or business as a means
of engaging in commercial soliciting or exempt soliciting or b) ringing the
doorbell upon or near any door, or creating any sound in any manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence or business, for the
purposes of securing an audience with the occupant thereof to engage in
commercial soliciting or exempt soliciting.
EXEMPT SOLICITING: Any door to door soliciting for the purpose of: a)
supporting political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
religious causes and organizations where the solicitation of funds is not
involved, or b) requesting the donation of money, property or anything of
value, or requesting a pledge of a future donation of money, property or
anything of value; or selling or offering for sale any property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, whether of value or not, including, but not
limited to, goods, books, pamphlets, tickets, publications or subscriptions to
publications or brochures, when the proceeds of donation, pledge or sale will
be used for political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
religious purposes.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company or political, religious or charitable organization.
POLICE CHIEF: The chief of police of the police department of the village of
Golf.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITOR: A person who engages in door to door soliciting, including persons
required to be licensed as "itinerant vendors" pursuant to the transient
merchant act of 1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 465/1 et seq. (Ord. 2015-
08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in commercial soliciting at any
residence within the village is hereby required to make written application for
a certificate of registration, as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Every person desiring to engage in exempt soliciting at any residence
within the village shall have the voluntary option of making written
application for a certificate of registration, if such person desires to be
welcome at those residences within the village that have posted notices stating
"Only Solicitors Registered In The Village Of Golf", as is provided in section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the police chief. The applicant shall include the application fee
with the application as prescribed by section
3-3-12 of this chapter. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the
information requested on the application, which shall include the following:
      1.   The applicant's name, permanent business address (which must include
a street address and zip code), social security number, date of birth, sex, and
a physical description of the applicant; and if the applicant is a corporation,
the residence addresses of its officers;
      2.   Name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed or
represents, and the approximate length of time of such employment or
representation;
      3.   The areas within the village where the applicant intends to conduct
door to door soliciting;
      4.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage and whether the applicant is
required to be licensed as an "itinerant vendor" pursuant to the transient
merchant act of 1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 465/1 et seq.;
      5.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      6.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal
laws of the United States;
      7.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this chapter, or its
predecessor, has ever been revoked;
      8.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter or its predecessor, or of the ordinance of
any other Illinois municipality, or any Illinois statute, regulating
soliciting; and
      9.   In the case of an application submitted by any charitable
organization, a) a written statement date issued by the attorney general of
Illinois that the charitable organization has complied with the provisions of
"an act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for charitable
purposes", 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/0.01 et seq., or a written
statement by the attorney general of exemption under 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 460/3; and b) a copy of the most recent annual report filed with the
Illinois attorney general pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/4. In
the event a charitable organization has not yet been required to file an annual
report, a copy of the registration statement filed with the attorney general of
Illinois pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/2 may be utilized.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath. An applicant for a certificate of registration
shall attach to the application two (2) color photographs of the person(s) in
whose name(s) the certificate of registration is to be issued. All such
photographs shall be a head and shoulders shot and shall measure one inch (1")
wide by one and one- half inches (11/2") high. If an applicant is required to
be licensed as an "itinerant vendor" pursuant to the transient merchant act of
1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 465/1 et seq., the application shall
include a bond or a cash deposit in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the
wholesale value of the merchandise that the applicant intends to offer for
sale; however the amount of the bond or deposit shall not be less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   The police chief shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of
applications. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   The police chief, upon receipt of a properly completed application, but
in no event later than five (5) working days after the receipt of the
application, shall either issue a certificate of registration or notify the
applicant in writing that the application has been denied because of the
applicant's failure to satisfy the requirements of this chapter. If the defects
of the application are not cured within ten (10) days after the date on which
the police chief denies the issuance of the certificate of registration, the
application shall become null and void. Each certificate of registration shall
expire five (5) days after the expiration date thereof, but may be renewed for
consecutive five (5) day periods upon the holder submitting an affidavit to the
police chief attesting to the truth and accuracy of the original application on
file with the police chief.
   B.   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the police chief, if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the
issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation written notice thereof shall be given by the
police chief to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his or her residence set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-5: POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the corporate authorities of the
village that the occupant or occupants of the residences in this village shall
make the determination whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to
their respective residences, as is provided in section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-6: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this chapter shall comply
with the following directions:
   A.   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner following:
A legible card approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size,
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence or
business or at or near the entrance of any guardhouse or security gate,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN THE VILLAGE OF GOLF ARE INVITED
or
NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   B.   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the village clerk to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   C.   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-7: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
village upon which a residence, as herein defined, is located, to first examine
the notice provided for in section
3-3-6 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors Registered In
The Village Of Golf Are Invited", then the solicitor not possessing a valid
certificate of registration, as herein provided, even if obtaining such
certificate of registration would have been voluntary only, shall immediately
and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the notice states, "No
Solicitors Invited", then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises. Any solicitor who has
gained entrance to the premises on which any residence is located or to any
residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises or residence when requested to do so by the occupant. (Ord. 2015-
08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to conduct door to door
soliciting of any residences in the village prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of any day. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-9: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to conduct door to door soliciting at any residence, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-10: STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS, RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to interfere with vehicular, bicycle or
pedestrian traffic on any public right of way or to display any goods,
merchandise or wares within one hundred feet (100') of the intersection of any
public right of way or driveway. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-11: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be a solicitor in the village
who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois, or
any equivalent law of any other state, or under the federal laws of the United
States, within five (5) years of the date of application. It shall be unlawful
for any person to be a solicitor who has been convicted of a sex offense as
defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes, act 5, article 11, or any equivalent
law of any other state, within five (5) years of the date of application.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to knowingly misrepresent,
whether by express or implied statement or conduct, that the proceeds of a
donation, pledge or sale requested by such solicitor will be used for
political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or religious
purposes, when such proceeds will be not be applied in the manner represented.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial soliciting in
the village:
      1.   To misrepresent his name, occupation, financial condition, social
condition or residence;
      2.   To use any plan, scheme or ruse to make any statement that indicates
or implies that the purpose of such person's commercial solicitation is other
than to obtain orders for or to make sales of goods or services;
      3.   To misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale
under the provisions of applicable law; or
      4.   To cheat, deceive, or fraudulently misrepresent, whether through
himself or through an employee, while acting as a solicitor in the village, or
to barter, sell or peddle any goods, merchandise or wares other than those
specified in his application for a license. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
3-3-12: REGISTRATION FEE:
Each applicant for a certificate of registration shall pay a license fee at the
time of making application to the police chief, in such amount as shall be
established from time to time in the village's fee schedule. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-
10-2015)
3-3-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-10-2015)
CHAPTER 4
CABLE AND VIDEO COMMUNICATION
ARTICLE A. SERVICE PROVIDERS
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Purpose
3-4A-2: Definitions
3-4A-3: Payment Of Service Provider Fee Required
3-4A-4: Payment Of PEG Access Support Fee Required
3-4A-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-4A-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-4A-7: Penalties
3-4A-1: PURPOSE:
This article is adopted pursuant to the Illinois cable and video competition
law of 2007 1 , article 21 of the public utilities act (as from time to time
amended, the "act"); and is intended to establish the service provider fee and
the PEG access support fee, which is authorized by section 21-801 of the act.
(Ord. 2011-03, 5-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
3-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended.
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village's jurisdiction, subject to the following clarifications:
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
1. Recurring charges for cable or video service.
2. Event based charges for cable service or video service, including, but not
limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
3. Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service equipment.
4. Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair charges.
5. Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, service order and service termination
charges.
6. Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and other
charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
7. A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its affiliates
pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation of the
holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the village.
The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the village
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
8. Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the operation of
the holder's network to provide cable service or video service with respect to
commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network, such as a "home
shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this definition.
9. In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
10. The service provider fee permitted by section 21-801(b) of the act.
   B.   Gross revenues shall not include any of the following:
1. Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt, subject to
section 21-801(c)(1)(vi) of the act;
2. Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of
gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued authorization to the
extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is attributable to cable service
or video service;
3. Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or functionally
integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues received from
services not classified as cable or video service, including, without
limitation, revenue received from telecommunications services, information
services, or the provision of directory or internet advertising, including
yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and electronic publishing or
any other revenues attributed by the holder to noncable service or nonvideo
service in accordance with the holder's books and records and records kept in
the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards, or orders;
4. The sale of cable service or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village's jurisdiction and pay the fee permitted
by section 21-801(b) of the act with respect to the service;
5. Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or the
transaction of the village, state, federal or any other governmental entity and
collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to be
remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes;
6. Security deposits collected from subscribers;
7. Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by section 21-801(b) of the act which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization from the commission,
pursuant to section 21-401 of the act, to offer or provide cable or video
service.
INCUMBENT CABLE OPERATOR: A "cable operator" as such term is defined in 47 USC
522(5), as amended, that provides cable service under a franchise agreement
with the village under section 11-42-11 of the Illinois municipal code.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The fee that a holder shall be liable to pay to the
village or the entity designated by the village to manage public, education and
government access, upon request as support for public, education, and
government access, as authorized under section 21-801(d) of the act and
implemented by the village under section
3-4A-4 of this article.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway, or utility easements dedicated for
compatible uses.
SERVICE: The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and the
interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to section 21-401 of the act.
SERVICE PROVIDER: A person or entity that provides cable service or video
service.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The fee that a holder shall be liable to pay to the
village for offering cable or video service on a commercial basis in the
village's jurisdiction, as authorized under section 21-801(b) of the act and
implemented by the village under section
3-4A-3 of this article.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: As defined in 47 USC 522(20).
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
rights of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC 332(d), as
amended, or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service
that enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public internet.
VILLAGE: The village of Golf. (Ord. 2011-03, 5-9-2011)
3-4A-3: PAYMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDER FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   A service provider fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   The service provider fee shall be five percent (5%) of the holder's
gross revenues.
   C.   Any holder shall notify the village at least ten (10) days prior to the
date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video service in the
village.
   D.   The holder shall be liable for and pay the service provider fee to the
village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of
the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of the ordinance
adopting this section by the holder. The ordinance adopting this section shall
be sent to the holder in the manner required by the act.
   E.   The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a quarterly
basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   F.   The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
village pursuant to which a fee is paid.
   G.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to section 21-301(c) of the act, with credit for prepaid
franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such credit from
the fees that operator owes pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2011-03, 5-9-2011)
3-4A-4: PAYMENT OF PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing
cable service or video service in the village.
   B.   The PEG access support fee shall be one percent (1%) of gross revenues,
unless cable operators pay a higher percentage of gross revenues to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village's jurisdiction, in which
case the PEG access support fee shall be such higher percentage.
   C.   The PEG access support fee shall be due on a quarterly basis and paid
forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter. Each payment
shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of fees. If
mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment
shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   D.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to section 21-301(c) of the act, shall pay, at the time they
would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that would have been
due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been terminated
pursuant to that section. All payments made by an incumbent cable operator
pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees that that
operator owes pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2011-03, 5-9-2011)
3-4A-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this article or its subsections shall be construed to
exempt a holder from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village,
including any tax that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the
holder with respect to cable service or video service. A state issued
authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to
payment of the village's simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any
other tax as it applies to any telephone service provided by the holder. A
state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with
respect to payment of the local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or
charges. (Ord. 2011-03, 5-9-2011)
3-4A-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   The village will notify the holder of the requirements it imposes on
other cable service or video service providers to submit to an audit of its
books and records. The holder shall comply with the same requirements the
village imposes on other cable service or video service providers in its
jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute any
amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the village. If all
local franchises between the village and incumbent cable operators terminate,
the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village pursuant to the
local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes
45/1 et seq., as amended. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed
as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Any additional amount due after an audit shall be paid within thirty
(30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for the sum. (Ord. 2011-
03, 5-9-2011)
3-4A-7: PENALTIES:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2011-
03, 5-9-2011)
ARTICLE B. CONSUMER PROTECTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Purpose
3-4B-2: Standards Adopted
3-4B-3: Enforcement
3-4B-4: Penalties
3-4B-5: Customer Credits
3-4B-1: PURPOSE:
This article is adopted pursuant to the cable and video customer protection law
1 , article 22 of the public utilities act (as from time to time amended, the
"act") and the purpose of this article is to promote the public health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of Golf by requiring cable and video service
providers to protect the rights of their customers. (Ord. 2011-04, 5-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3-4B-2: STANDARDS ADOPTED:
   A.   The regulations of section 22-501 of the act are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers offering services
within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection law that
becomes effective after the effective date of this section shall be
incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the village's boundaries. However, any
amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this section by reference without formal action
by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 2011-04, 5-9-2011)
3-4B-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 2011-04, 5-9-2011)
3-4B-4: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to section 22-501(r)(1) of the act, does hereby provide
for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable and video
customer protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the cable and video customer protection law. The monetary
penalties shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and
shall not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence
of a material breach per customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the cable and video protection law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the cable and video protection law and allow
such provider at least thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to
remedy the specified material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2011-04, 5-9-2011)
3-4B-5: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of section 22-501(s)
of the act, and shall be applied on the statement issued to the customer for
the next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of
the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord.
2011-04, 5-9-2011)
ARTICLE C. CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Definitions
3-4C-2: Authority; Franchise Required
3-4C-3: Franchise Applications
3-4C-4: Renewal Procedures
3-4C-5: Determination Of Overbuild Franchise Proposals
3-4C-6: Conditions Of Franchise
3-4C-7: Location Of Facilities
3-4C-8: Franchise Service Requirements
3-4C-9: Cable Construction Standards
3-4C-10: Customer Service Requirements
3-4C-11: Rights Of Individuals
3-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases and words and
their abbreviations and derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
the "cable act" (as defined below), unless otherwise defined herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and
words used in the singular number include the plural number.
BOARD: The village board of trustees of the village or any future body
constituting the legislative body of the village.
CABLE ACT: Cable communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable
television consumer protection and competition act of 1992, and the
telecommunications act of 1996 (47 USC 521 et seq.).
CABLE AND VIDEO COMPETITION LAW: The cable and video competition law of 2007 1
.
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW: The cable and video customer
protection law 2 .
CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended.
CABLE SYSTEM: A cable system, as defined in 47 USC 522(7), as amended.
CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum
which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television
channel as a television channel is defined by the federal communications
commission by regulation.
CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control or ownership of a cable system in
whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person or entity (except underwriters during the period
in which they are offering securities to the public) of fifty one percent (51%)
or more of a cable system or the franchise under which the system is operated.
A change in the control or controlling interest of an entity which has control
or a controlling interest in a grantee parent shall constitute a change in the
control or controlling interest of the cable system under the same criteria.
Control or controlling interest as used herein may be held simultaneously by
more than one person or entity.
ENTITY: A corporation, joint venture, association, partnership, limited
liability company or group of persons acting in concert.
FRANCHISE: An authorization granted by ordinance adopted by the village, or
renewal thereof, to construct and operate a cable system.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: The agreement entered into between the village and a
grantee, and any amendments or modifications thereto.
FRANCHISE AREA: The area within the boundaries of the village where the cable
system shall be constructed and operated as agreed to in a franchise agreement.
GRANTEE OR CABLE OPERATOR: An entity to which a franchise is granted or
lawfully transferred.
GROSS REVENUES: The cable service revenue derived by the grantee from the
operation of the cable system in the franchise area to provide cable services,
calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Cable
service revenue includes monthly basic, premium and pay per view video fees,
advertising and home shopping revenue, installation fees and equipment rental
fees. Gross revenues shall also include such other revenue sources from the
provision of cable service as may now exist or hereafter develop from or in
connection with the operation of the cable system within the village, provided
that such revenues, fees, receipts, or charges may lawfully be included in the
gross revenue base for purposes of computing the village's permissible
franchise fee under the cable act, as amended. Gross revenue shall not include
refundable deposits, bad debt, investment income, programming launch support
payments, advertising sales commissions, nor any taxes, fees or assessments
imposed or assessed by any governmental authority.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received a state issued authorization from
the Illinois commerce commission pursuant to section 21-401 of the cable and
video competition law.
PUBLIC WAYS: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, including
utility easements, in which the village has the right and authority to
authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include any real or
personal village property that is not specifically described in the previous
sentence and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other structures
or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the right of way.
ROW ORDINANCE: The provisions generally applicable to utilities occupying
public ways in the village pursuant to title 6, chapter 3 of this code.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity lawfully receiving for any purpose the cable
services of a grantee herein.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: As defined in 47 USC 522(20), as amended.
VILLAGE: The village of Golf, Illinois, or the lawful successor, transferee,
designee, or assignee thereof. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
2 2. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3-4C-2: AUTHORITY; FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   This chapter is adopted by the village as an exercise of its home rule
powers under the Illinois constitution of 1970, and by the authority granted by
Illinois statutes, including, but not limited to, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-42-11, the cable and video customer protection law 1  and by federal law,
including the cable communications policy act of 1984, as amended from time to
time, 47 USC section 521 et seq., the telecommunications act of 1996, and any
other federal law hereinafter adopted which regulates the cable television
industry, all as the same may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Where any provision of this article conflicts with any provision of
Illinois or federal law, this article shall be superseded but only to the
extent necessary to resolve the conflict.
   C.   A cable television franchise shall be required of any person who
desires to construct a cable system in public streets and ways of the village
and to provide or offer cable service to any person or area within the village.
(Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3-4C-3: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   General Information Required: Any person that desires a cable franchise
authorizing the use of the public ways of the village shall file an application
with the village pursuant to this article which shall include the following
information:
      1.   The identity of the cable television franchise applicant and, if
different, the identity of the affiliate that will be the cable operator if a
franchise is granted.
      2.   The identity and relationship of all other affiliates of the
applicant not disclosed pursuant to this subsection A.
      3.   The design and performance characteristics of the subscriber network
that will be constructed and/or provided by the applicant.
      4.   The design and performance characteristics of the institutional
network that will be constructed and/or provided by the applicant.
      5.   A network map of all existing facilities owned or used by the
applicant in the village, if any, together with preliminary engineering plans,
specifications and a network map of the facilities proposed to be located
within the village. Network maps shall be provided in a graphical form meeting
the requirements of the village engineer and in a digital format compatible
with the village's GIS mapping system format. The maps, plans and specification
shall be in sufficient detail to identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed cable
television facilities.
         b.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
         c.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other cable operators or telecommunications
carriers.
         d.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      6.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its cable facilities on existing
utility poles along the proposed route.
      7.   If applicant is proposing to install new utility poles or structures
for attachment of its overhead facilities, evidence that:
         a.   There is not sufficient space within existing utility facilities
to accommodate applicant's cable facilities.
         b.   Preliminary engineering plans for the new utility poles or
structures needed to accommodate applicant proposed overhead cable facilities.
      8.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts, conduits or wire holding facilities within the public ways, information
in sufficient detail to identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's cable facilities;
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's cable facilities.
      9.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's cable facilities.
      10.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
      11.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the IDOT
manual on uniform traffic control devices and applicable village standards.
      12.   Financial statements and pro formas prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's
financial ability, over the life of the franchise, to construct, operate,
maintain, relocate and remove the cable system and facilities.
      13.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the cable
television and telecommunications facilities and services described in the
application.
      14.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing cable or
telecommunications facilities in the village that applicant intends to use or
lease.
      15.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
provide or make available to the village and other local public, educational
and governmental institutions.
      16.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
provide or make available for local origination cable programming.
      17.   A description of applicant's access and line extension policies for
providing service to subscribers and for extending the cable system to serve
new dwelling units and nonresidential subscribers.
      18.   A schedule for constructing the cable system and for activating
trunk and distribution cables passing every dwelling unit in the village.
      19.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to this chapter or
the village's annual fee schedule.
      20.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the
village clerk or required by the corporate authorities.
   B.   Overbuild Applications: To the extent required by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-42-11, an applicant requesting a new cable franchise from the
village to provide cable services within all or any portion of the geographic
territory of the village served by another cable operator with a cable
franchise granted by the village shall, in addition to the information
otherwise required by this article, provide sufficient information to
demonstrate that it will provide cable service upon franchise terms and
conditions that will equal or exceed those terms and conditions required under
the existing cable television franchise which pertain to:
      1.   The territorial extent of the franchise.
      2.   System design.
      3.   Technical performance standards.
      4.   Construction schedules.
      5.   Performance and surety bonds.
      6.   Standards for construction and installation of cable television
facilities.
      7.   Service to subscribers.
      8.   Public, educational and governmental (PEG) access channels and
programming.
      9.   Production assistance for PEG access channels and programming.
      10.   Liability protection and indemnification.
      11.   Franchise fees.
   C.   Response To Community Needs: In addition to the information otherwise
required by this article, the applicant shall present sufficient information to
demonstrate that its cable franchise proposal will, if approved by the village,
meet the future cable related needs and interests of the community as
identified by the village.
   D.   Duty To Supplement Application: Applicant and their affiliates are
responsible for the continuing accuracy and completeness of all information and
supporting materials submitted or required to be submitted in support of their
cable franchise application, or related application for a telecommunications
license or franchise to use a cable system to provide other telecommunications
services. Information and supporting materials submitted must be current and
updated as necessary and in a timely manner at any time and all times before a
decision is rendered on the application. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-4: RENEWAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Franchise Renewal Proposals:
      1.   Upon completion of proceedings by the village under section 626 of
the cable act to review the performance of the cable operator under the
expiring franchise and to identify the future cable related community needs and
interests of the village, the village shall issue its request for a renewal
proposal and shall establish a date by which such proposal shall be submitted.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A1 of this section or
the provisions of section 626(a) through (g) of the cable act, the village may
agree to consider a cable operator's proposal for renewal of its franchise
pursuant to the alternative renewal procedures authorized by section 626(n) of
the cable act, and shall have discretion to grant or deny such renewal proposal
after first giving the public adequate notice and an opportunity to comment on
the renewal proposal. The denial of a renewal proposal submitted pursuant to
this alternative procedure shall not affect the action on any subsequent
renewal proposal pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   Cable franchise renewal proposals submitted to the village under
subsections A1 and A2 of this section shall contain the materials required by
the village including the information required by section
3-4C-3 of this article.
      4.   In the event that any or all of the above referenced provisions of
the cable act are repealed, proceedings for franchise renewal shall be
conducted in accordance with subsections D and E of this section.
   B.   Determination Of Formal Renewal Proposals: Proceedings to consider
proposals for renewal of a cable franchise pursuant to subsection A of this
section and section 626(a) through (g) of the cable act shall be conducted in
accordance with the requirements of section 626 of the cable act and with the
requirements of this article.
   C.   Determination Of Alternative Renewal Proposals: Proceedings to consider
alternative proposals for renewal of a cable franchise submitted pursuant to
subsection A of this section and section 626(h) of the cable act shall be
conducted and determined in the discretion of the corporate authorities.
   D.   Noncable Act Renewal Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its
franchise pursuant to subsection C of this section shall, not more than two
hundred forty (240) days nor less than one hundred fifty (150) days before
expiration of the current franchise, file an application with the village for
renewal of its franchise which shall include the following information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to subsections A, B and C of this
section.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the village and the grantee.
   E.   Determination Of Noncable Act Renewals: Within one hundred fifty (150)
days after receiving a complete application under subsection D of this section,
the corporate authorities shall issue a written determination granting or
denying the renewal application, in whole or in part, applying the following
standards. If the renewal application is denied, the written determination
shall include the reasons for nonrenewal:
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the franchise agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   F.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No franchise shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the grantee's performance
of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been
cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the village. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-5: DETERMINATION OF OVERBUILD FRANCHISE PROPOSALS:
Within one hundred fifty (150) days after receiving a complete cable franchise
application proposal pursuant to subsection 3-4C-3B of this article, the
corporate authorities shall issue a written determination granting or denying
the application, in whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the
application is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for
denial:
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's proposed
facilities.
   D.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility and
telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
   E.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
   F.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
   G.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
   H.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
   I.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities.
   J.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations and
policies.
   K.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the public
ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-6: CONDITIONS OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Franchise Agreement: The approval of any cable franchise granted
hereunder shall be preliminary until the applicant and the village have
executed a written franchise agreement setting forth the particular terms and
provisions under which the franchise to occupy and use public ways of the
village will be granted.
   B.   Nonexclusive Grant: No franchise granted under this article shall
confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to construct,
maintain and operate a cable system within the public ways of the village for
the delivery of video programming or other telecommunications services.
   C.   Term Of Grant: Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a
cable television franchise granted hereunder shall be valid for a term of not
to exceed fifteen (15) years.
   D.   Rights Granted:
      1.   No franchise granted under this article shall convey any right,
title or interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed a franchise only to
use and occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the
grant.
      2.   No franchise granted under this article shall authorize or excuse a
franchisee from securing such further easements, leases, franchises, permits or
other approvals as may be required to lawfully occupy and use a public way,
excess capacity in an underground facility or surplus space in an overhead
facility.
      3.   No franchise granted under this article shall be construed as any
warranty of title.
   E.   Construction Permits: All cable franchisees are required to obtain
construction permits for cable facilities in the public right of way as
required by the ROW ordinance; provided, however, that nothing in this article
shall prohibit the village and a cable franchisee from agreeing to alternative
plan review, permit and construction procedures in a franchise agreement,
provided such alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent
safeguards for responsible construction practices.
   F.   Franchise Fee:
      1.   As compensation for permission to use the streets and public ways of
the village for the construction, operation, maintenance, modification, and
reconstruction of a cable system, and for the village's costs in establishing a
regulatory program for a grantee, a grantee shall pay to the village an annual
amount equal to five percent (5%) of such grantee's annual gross revenues.
      2.   If at any time during the duration of a franchise agreement, the
village is authorized to collect an amount in excess of five percent (5%) of
the grantee's gross revenues, then the village may unilaterally amend the
franchise agreement by ordinance following a public hearing on the matter,
provided such amendment is competitively neutral. Such ordinance shall provide
that such excess amount shall be added to the franchise fee payments to be paid
by the grantee to the village. The revised franchise payment shall not take
effect until at least ninety (90) days prior to written notice from the village
to the grantee of the ordinance implementing the increase in the amount of the
franchise fee.
      3.   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, franchise fee
payments shall be payable quarterly within thirty (30) days after the end of
each calendar quarter. Each quarterly franchise fee payment shall be
accompanied by a verified financial statement which shall accurately present
the cable operator's gross revenues derived from the provision of cable service
within the village for any such calendar quarter.
      4.   In addition to the quarterly financial statements provided herein,
the cable operator shall also submit a verified annual financial statement
within ninety (90) days after the end of the twelve (12) month franchise fee
period which shall accurately present the cable operator's annual gross
revenues for the twelve (12) month period. Any recomputed amounts due the
village as a franchise fee shall be paid to the village at that time, together
with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum. Any recomputed
amounts overpaid to the village as a franchise fee shall be credited against
the franchise fee payment due for the next calendar quarter.
   G.   Franchise Territory: A cable franchise granted under this article shall
include all territory within the corporate limits of the village, including any
areas annexed to the village during the term of the franchise, unless otherwise
stated in the franchise agreement.
   H.   Nondiscrimination: A cable operator shall make its cable services
available to any customer within its franchise area who shall request such
service, without discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges
for grantee's services; provided, however, that nothing in this article shall
prohibit a cable operator from making any reasonable classifications among
differently situated customers.
   I.   Service To Village: A franchisee shall make its cable services
available to the village and to governmental entities within the village at its
most favorable rate for similarly situated users, unless otherwise provided for
in a license or franchise agreement. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-7: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement or in the ROW ordinance,
all cable facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in accordance
with the following terms and conditions:
   A.   If technically feasible, grantee's cable facilities should be installed
within an existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists
within such utility facility.
   B.   A franchisee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the village, a cable franchisee with permission to occupy the same public way
must also locate its cable facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its existing cable facilities underground within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be later than the end of the
franchise term. Absent extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as
determined by the village engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently
to minimize the disruption of the public ways.
   E.   Whenever new cable facilities will exhaust the capacity of a public
street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future telecommunications
carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional ducts, conduits,
manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to future carriers.
(Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-8: FRANCHISE SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Initial Service To Franchise Territory:
      1.   The cable operator shall design, construct and maintain the cable
system to pass and have the capability to serve every dwelling unit in the
franchise territory, subject to any line extension requirements in the
franchise agreement.
      2.   After service has been established to any area within the franchise
territory by activating trunk and distribution cables in any part of the cable
system, the cable operator shall provide cable service to any subscriber within
such area within thirty (30) days after a request for service.
   B.   Extension Of Service: Following the initial construction of the cable
system, the cable operator shall extend the system and make cable service
available as follows:
      1.   The cable operator shall extend the system and make cable service
available to all areas containing dwelling units that have been newly annexed
or developed within six (6) months after written notification from the village.
If the cable operator determines that extension of the system to serve such an
area is not economically feasible, it may request relief from this requirement,
which will not be unreasonably denied.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection B1 of this section, a cable operator
shall extend the system and make cable service available to areas that have
been newly annexed or developed within the village, and which contain a minimum
density of twenty five (25) dwelling units per street mile, as measured from
the extremity of the system nearest to the area to be served to the farthest
dwelling unit in the area to be served. The system shall be extended to such
areas and service made available within six (6) months after notification from
the village that an area meeting this density requirement has been annexed or
developed.
      3.   Notwithstanding the density requirement set forth in subsection B2
of this section, the cable operator shall, upon written request of one or more
potential subscribers, offer to extend the system and make cable service
available to newly annexed or developed areas with fewer dwelling units per
street mile than specified in subsection B2 of this section pursuant to a cost
sharing arrangement with potential subscribers in such area. The cable
operator's "per home passed" share of the project shall be based upon the per
mile cost of the extension project divided by twenty five (25). The
subscribers' share of the cost shall be based upon the cost of the extension
project per street mile, divided by the actual number of dwelling units passed
by the extension, minus the operator's per home passed share of the project
cost. The operator may require that a certain percentage of the potential
subscribers within such an area commit to paying for the extension of service
to the area before proceeding with the project.
      4.   Within sixty (60) days after a written request, the cable operator
shall offer, at the cost of operator's time and materials, to extend the system
and make cable service available to potential nonresidential subscribers within
areas not passed during the initial construction of the cable system and which
do not meet the minimum density requirement set forth in subsection B2 of this
section. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-9: CABLE CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
It shall be the duty of the cable operator to meet the following construction
related requirements and standards:
   A.   In making use of the public ways, including, without limitation,
performing any tree trimming in conjunction therewith, the grantee shall comply
with all pertinent provisions of the ROW ordinance.
   B.   No provision in this article or any franchise agreement shall: 1)
abrogate the right of the village to perform any public works or public
improvements of any description, 2) be construed as a waiver of any codes or
ordinances of general applicability promulgated by the village, or 3) be
construed as a waiver or release of the rights of the village in and to the
public ways.
   C.   At the request of a private property owner, the grantee shall relocate
its facilities and be entitled to reimbursement of its relocation expenses by
such private owner.
   D.   A grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the village, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit
the moving of buildings. The expenses of such temporary raising or lowering of
the wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee may
require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be given at least forty
eight (48) hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   E.   All distribution wires, cables and other facilities installed under
private sidewalks, driveways and other private paved areas shall be installed
within conduit or other wire holding facility, and such facilities shall be
installed by utilizing directional boring techniques.
   F.   All wires and cables installed under private sidewalks, driveways and
other paved private areas for a subscriber service drop shall be installed by
utilizing directional boring techniques. If requested by the property owner,
the drop shall be installed in conduit. (Ord. 2011-05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-10: CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
The cable operator shall comply with the customer service and protection
provisions of section 22-501 of the cable and video customer protection law,
which provisions are incorporated by reference in this section. Subject to the
preceding, a grantee may promulgate such rules, regulations, terms and
conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be reasonably
necessary to enable the grantee to exercise its rights and perform its
obligations under the franchise and to assure uninterrupted service to all its
subscribers. However, such rules, regulations, terms and conditions shall not
be in conflict with the provisions of this article, or applicable federal or
state law or regulation. A grantee shall provide annually, without the need for
a request from the village, its annual public report that includes performance
data, disaggregated for the village and containing the information set forth in
section 22-501(g) of the cable and video customer protection law. (Ord. 2011-
05, 5-9-2011)
3-4C-11: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   Neither the cable operator, nor any other person shall, without the
subscriber's consent, tap or arrange for the tapping of any cable, line, signal
input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except routine
maintenance of the cable system, detection of unauthorized service, polling
with audience participation, or audience viewing surveys to support advertising
research regarding viewers where individual viewing behavior cannot be
identified.
   B.   The cable operator shall take reasonable steps to prevent the invasion
of a citizen's right of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the
cable system, as such rights are defined and delineated by applicable law. The
operator shall not, without a lawful court order or other valid legal
authority, utilize the interactive two-way equipment or capability of the cable
system for unauthorized personal surveillance of any person.
   C.   No cable, wire, amplifier, converter or other equipment, fixture or
facility owned by the cable operator shall be installed in the subscriber's
premises, except in appropriate easements or with any required consent. (Ord.
2011-05, 5-9-2011)
CHAPTER 5
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
3-5-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
3-5-4: Collection, Enforcement And Administration
3-5-5: Compliance With Other Laws
3-5-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
3-5-7: Penalties
3-5-8: Enforcement
3-5-9: Severability
3-5-10: Conflict
3-5-11: Waiver And Fee Implementation
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the costs of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service cost or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. Gross charges for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the village. However, gross charges shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made under:
       1. The fee imposed by this chapter,
       2. Additional charges added to a purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or
9-222 of the public utilities act 1 ,
       3. Amounts collected under 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/90-5 et
seq.,
       4. The tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act 1 ,
       5. 911 surcharges, or
       6. The tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are segregated
and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the village;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices;
   I.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the village.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements,
wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the locations of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
Public right of way shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state of Illinois,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing
of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection therewith for a
consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross charges made
by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater than the
gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not for
sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like, service address shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
telecommunications shall also include "wireless telecommunications" as
hereinafter defined. Telecommunications shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
Telecommunications shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates
the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of access
charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications
resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component of, or integrated
into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be included in gross
charges as sales for resale. Telecommunications shall not include the provision
of cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 3  as now or hereafter amended or cable or other programming
services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village through an
open video system as defined in the rules of the federal communications
commission 4  as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Any telecommunications retailer; and
   B.   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
telecommunications act of 1996 (public law no. 104-104) 5 , as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 5/9-222.
1 1. 35 ILCS 630/4.
3 1. 47 USC § 521 et seq.
4 2. 47 CDF § 76.1550 et seq.
5 1. 42 USC § 332(c)(7).
3-5-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   A.   Every telecommunications provider, as defined by this chapter, shall
register with the village within thirty (30) days after the effective date
hereof or within thirty (30) days of becoming a telecommunications provider,
whichever is later, on a form to be provided by the village; provided however,
that any telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to
subsection 3-5-4C of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in
accordance with this section.
   B.   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to subsection A of this section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection 3-5-4C of
this chapter, as the case may be, to the village within thirty (30) days from
the date of the occurrence of any charges in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the village. (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
3-5-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   A.   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of five percent
(5.0%) of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to
service addresses within the village for telecommunications originating or
received in the village 1 . (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998; amd. Ord. 02-06, 12-9-2002)
   B.   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this chapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set
forth in section
3-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 636, simplified municipal telecommunications tax act.
3-5-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   B.   Unless otherwise approved by the village clerk, the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%)
of the village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   C.   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in the form to be prescribed by the village clerk,
which shall contain such information as the village clerk may reasonably
require.
   D.   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant to
this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under subsection
A of this section by the telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who provides such services
until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the
original charge for such services.
   E.   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee has
been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as a
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the village clerk may request, and the
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. No claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years after
the date of the erroneous payment unless:
      1.   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the village within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      2.   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   F.   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   Gross charges for purposes of the telecommunications excise tax act
1 ;
      2.   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code; (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-
1998)
      3.   Gross charges for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/90-5 et seq.; (Ord. 98-05,
8-10-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the public utilities act.
   G.   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the books
and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the village by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village plus five percent (5%)
of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs
incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed
five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an
audit. Said sum shall be paid to the village within twenty one (21) days after
the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   H.   The village clerk, or his designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to section
3-5-2 of this chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.
3-5-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Generally applicable taxes; and
   B.   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights of way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as provided; and
   C.   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within
use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   D.   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning uses
or structures not located on, over or within the right of way. (Ord. 98-05, 8-
10-1998)
3-5-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
chapter regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived. (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
3-5-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this code 1 .
(Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-2 of this code.
3-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
3-5-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
3-5-10: CONFLICT:
This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto
which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 98-05, 8-
10-1998)
3-5-11: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   The village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise, license
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This
waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance
fee provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from its customers.
   B.   The village clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   C.   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this chapter
shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not less than
ninety (90) days after the village provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license or similar agreement during
such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the
retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall
apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as established in
the preceding sentence. (Ord. 98-05, 8-10-1998)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL ELECTRICITY TAX
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Tax Imposed
3-6-3: Collection Of Tax
3-6-4: Tax Remittance And Return
3-6-5: Books And Records
3-6-6: Credits And Refunds
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois
municipal code 1 , directly in the generation, production, transmission,
delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. 98-3,
7-13-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-6-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and any and
all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed
within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated
on a monthly basis for each purchaser.
For kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month, the following rates apply:
For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours     $00.551/kilowatt-hour
For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours     00.361/kilowatt-hour
For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours     00.325/kilowatt-hour
For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours    00.316/kilowatt-hour
For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours    00.307/kilowatt-hour
For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours  00.289/kilowatt-hour
For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours  00.284/kilowatt-hour
For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours  00.280/kilowatt-hour
For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours 00.275/kilowatt-hour
For all electricity in excess of       00.271/kilowatt-hour
20,000,000 kilowatt-hours
 
   B.   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the village, the state of Illinois or any other political
subdivision of the state.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not
be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
or statutes of the state of Illinois.
   D.   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after September 1, 1998; and with the respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by nonresidential customers, beginning with the first bill issued
to such customers for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of
the public utilities act 1 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or
after January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner. Until the tax imposed
by this chapter is applicable to the use or consumption of electricity by a
customer, the gross receipts received from such customer by the person selling
or providing electricity to such customer shall remain subject to the existing
five percent (5%) occupation tax. Whenever the tax imposed by this chapter
becomes applicable to the use or consumption of electricity by a customer, the
gross receipts received from such customer by the person selling or providing
electricity to such customer shall no longer be subject to the existing five
percent (5%) occupation tax. (Ord. 98-3, 7-13-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
3-6-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from purchasers
by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the
purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is
recoverable at the same time and in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this chapter, and any tax
in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity; provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed a credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible; and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse them for their
expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing
returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon request. For
purposes of this chapter, any partial payment of a billed amount not
specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery
of electricity. (Ord. 98-3, 7-13-1998)
3-6-4: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every tax collector shall, on a monthly basis, file a return in a form
prescribed by the village clerk. The return and accompanying remittance shall
be due on or before the last day of the month following the month during which
the tax is collected or is required to be collected.
   B.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall file a return on a form prescribed by the
village clerk and pay the tax directly to the village on or before the last day
of the month following the month during which the electricity is used or
consumed. (Ord. 98-3, 7-13-1998)
3-6-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
chapter, shall keep accurate books and records of its business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this chapter. The
books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection at all times
during business hours of the day. (Ord. 98-3, 7-13-1998)
3-6-6: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this chapter, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this chapter unless
the person files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on
which the tax was paid or required to be paid. (Ord. 98-3, 7-13-1998)
CHAPTER 7
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required
3-7-3: Eligibility
3-7-4: Administration
3-7-5: Administrative Review Period
3-7-6: Powers; Duties
3-7-7: License Fees; Scope Of License
3-7-8: Restrictions On Conduct Of Raffles
3-7-9: Raffles Manager; Bond
3-7-10: Application And Contents
3-7-11: Restriction On Issuance Of License
3-7-12: Recordkeeping
3-7-13: Revocation And Suspension Procedures
3-7-14: Interpretation
3-7-15: Penalties
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses, who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial, and
civic interest of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those who would otherwise be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2
(b), conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans, or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, limited liability company, partnership, corporation or other
entity shall conduct any raffle or sell any chances for a raffle, within the
village, without first having obtained a license from the village pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-3: ELIGIBILITY:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide business, charitable, educational,
fraternal, labor, religious or veterans' organizations that operate without
profit to their members, which are located in the village and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of at least five (5) years immediately
prior to their application for a license and which have had a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objectives. The village president may
waive the aforementioned five (5) year period requirement in the case of any
organization which has received a determination letter from the internal
revenue service qualifying as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The village president or his designee shall be charged with the administration
of this chapter, and may designate village personnel to assist him in the
exercise of such power and responsibilities. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PERIOD:
The village president or his designee shall act on a license application within
thirty (30) days of the date of the application. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-6: POWERS; DUTIES:
The village president or his designee shall have the following powers,
functions and duties under this chapter, in addition to any other powers
elsewhere granted by ordinance or by law:
   A.   To grant, suspend or revoke all raffle licenses issued;
   B.   To receive or cause to be received all local license fees and pay them
to the village clerk; and
   C.   To receive complaints from any citizen of the village that any
provision of this chapter has been or is being violated, and to act upon such
complaint in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-7: LICENSE FEES; SCOPE OF LICENSE:
The fee for a license to conduct a raffle shall be as set forth in the annual
fee schedule. Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for up to
four (4) raffles during a calendar year. All fees for licenses required by this
chapter shall be paid to the village clerk at the time of application. (Ord.
2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-8: RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The license issued for the conduct of raffles is subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes issued in a single raffle
shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   B.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded shall not exceed two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
   C.   The maximum price which may be charged for one raffle chance shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   D.   No chances may be sold, or tickets delivered, for any raffle more than
one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date set for the determination of
the winning chance.
   E.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that raffle.
   F.   No person except a bona fide officer, employee or member of the
sponsoring organization or those otherwise authorized by the sponsoring
organization may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   G.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle (but this restriction shall not
preclude the compensation of employees of the sponsoring organization from
receiving their customary salary or wages for managing or operating the
raffle).
   H.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from: 1) an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter, or 2) a nonprofit corporation or organization approved in
the license, 3) a governmental body or agency, or 4) a commercial entity
approved in the license, but only if no rent or other charge is made for the
renting of the premises above the lowest rates that are being charged by the
entity for use of the same space.
   I.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified in
the license application and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified in the license application.
   J.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-9: RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND:
   A.   Supervision: The operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under
the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization.
   B.   Amount Of Bond: The raffles manager shall give a fidelity bond in the
sum of the total value of the prizes to be awarded in the raffle. Such bond
must be issued by a responsible insurance company or financial institution duly
authorized to do business in Illinois, and shall be in effect from the
commencement of sales of chance within the village until at least thirty (30)
days after the raffle is conducted.
   C.   Cancellation: Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be
given in writing to the village president or his designee not less than thirty
(30) days prior to its cancellation.
   D.   Waiver Of Requirement: The village president or his designee may waive
this bond requirement to any organization under this chapter, if upon
investigation it is determined that such a bond requirement imposes a hardship
on the organization so as to prevent the operation of the raffle. (Ord. 2009-
13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-10: APPLICATION AND CONTENTS:
   A.   The application for a license required by this chapter shall be on such
form as may be prescribed by the village president or his designee. The
application may require the following information to be submitted:
      1.   The location of sale or other means by which raffle chances will be
sold or issued;
      2.   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      3.   The time of determination of winning chances;
      4.   The name and address of the organization;
      5.   The type of organization;
      6.   The number of years that the organization has been in existence;
      7.   The date and place of incorporation or formation of the
organization;
      8.   The number of members in good standing in the organization;
      9.   The name of the president or chairperson of the organization;
      10.   The name of the raffles manager;
      11.   The cumulative retail value of the prizes;
      12.   The maximum value of each prize;
      13.   The maximum price to be charged for each chance sold;
      14.   The location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined;
      15.   A sworn statement attesting to the nonprofit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by its presiding officer and
secretary, if any.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing information, the application shall contain
such other and further information as the village president or his designee may
prescribe not inconsistent with law. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-11: RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No raffle license shall be issued to:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   D.   Any firm, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other
organization in which a person as defined in subsection A, B, or C of this
section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such a
person is active or employed;
   E.   Any firm, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other
organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B, or C of this section
is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not;
   F.   Any firm, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other
organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B, or C of this section
is to participate in the management or operation of a "raffle" as defined in
this chapter; or
   G.   Any organization which has in the previous three (3) years had a
license revoked by any governmental unit. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-12: RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   The village president or his designee shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all licenses required by this chapter issued by him and
shall forward a copy to the chief of police. The village president or his
designee shall inform the chief of police from time to time of any changes and
of the issuance, revocation or suspension of any licenses.
   B.   Each organization to conduct raffles and chances shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment, if the net proceeds
are being distributed to a payee for a particular purpose rather than retained
as general funds for the activities of any organization which has received a
determination letter from the internal revenue service qualifying as an exempt
organization under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
   C.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if licensed bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   D.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report, within
sixty (60) days after the conclusion of each raffle to the village, its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required in this chapter.
   E.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-13: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The village president or his designee may revoke or suspend any license
issued by the village under this chapter if he determines that the licensee has
violated any provision of this chapter or of law.
   B.   No such license shall be revoked or suspended except after public
hearing by the village president or his designee with a three (3) days' written
notice to the licensee affording him an opportunity to appear and defend
himself.
   C.   Within five (5) days after such hearing, if the village president or
his designee determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, he
shall state the reason or reasons for such determination in a written order of
revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of such order within such five
(5) days upon the licensee. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-14: INTERPRETATION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
3-7-15: PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation,
and a separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
day that such violation exists. (Ord. 2009-13, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 8
CONFLICTS WITH CERTAIN HOME RULE COUNTY ORDINANCES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Federal And State Laws Concerning Paid Sick Leave And Minimum Hourly
Wages
3-8-1: FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS CONCERNING PAID SICK LEAVE AND MINIMUM HOURLY
WAGES:
   A.   Employers located within the Village shall comply with all applicable
Federal and State employment laws and regulations, as such laws and regulations
may exist from time to time with regard to both the payment of minimum hourly
wages and paid sick leave. Employee eligibility for paid sick leave and minimum
hourly wages shall be pursuant to all such applicable Federal and State
employment laws and regulations.
   B.   No additional obligations with regard to paid sick leave, or minimum
hourly wages imposed by any ordinance adopted by the County of Cook Board of
Commissioners shall apply to employers located within the Village, unless the
applicability of such Cook County ordinance is mandated by Federal or State
law.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, the term "employee" means an
individual permitted to work by an employer regardless of the number of persons
the employer employs, and the term "employer" means any person employing one or
more employees, or seeking to employ one or more employees, if the person has
its principal place of business within the Village or does business within the
Village.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, the term "employer" does not mean:
      1.   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by
the government of the United States.
      2.   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe.
      3.   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof.
      4.   The government of any municipality. (Ord. 2017-02, 6-12-2017)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Emissions Of Dense Smoke And Fumes Prohibited
4-1-2: Open Fires
4-1-3: Conflicting Provisions
4-1-4: Violations And Penalties
4-1-1: EMISSIONS OF DENSE SMOKE AND FUMES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cause or permit the emission
of dense smoke or fumes from any source whatever, including open fires, leaf
burning fires, chimneys, engines, furnaces, burners or any other agency within
the village, so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to any residents thereof,
and the causing or permitting thereof is hereby prohibited. (Ord., 10-12-1970)
4-1-2: OPEN FIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set fire to any leaves, trash,
rubbish or the like anywhere within the village without a written permit from
the village president or the village clerk. (2003 Code)
4-1-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Should any ordinance or regulation be in conflict herewith, this chapter shall
control. (Ord., 10-12-1970)
4-1-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties: Any person or persons in violation hereof shall be subject
to a class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code)
   B.   Liability For Violation: The owner, lessee or occupant of any offending
building or the person in charge of any offending violation hereof shall be
jointly and severally liable therefor. (Ord., 10-12-1970)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Trees; Parkway Plantings
4-2-2: Diseased Trees; Duty Of Owner
4-2-3: Right To Enter Premises, Inspect Trees, Notice To Owner To Abate;
Removal Of Village Trees
4-2-4: Dangerous Trees
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: TREES; PARKWAY PLANTINGS:
   A.   Unlawful Conditions: It shall be unlawful for any person who owns,
occupies or controls any premises in the village:
      1.   To set out or suffer any shade trees upon any streets or avenues
adjoining such premises to grow or remain in a condition to interfere with the
passing of vehicles or pedestrians; or
      2.   To cause or permit shade trees upon premises so occupied, owned or
controlled by him, to grow or remain in such condition as to interfere with the
passage of vehicles or pedestrians upon any street or avenue adjoining such
premises. (Ord., 4-2-1928)
   B.   Plantings In Parkways: No bush, shrub or trees in groups shall be
planted in any parkway, and no single trees may be planted in such parkway
without a permit issued by the village clerk, which permit shall specify the
location and species of the tree or trees authorized therein. Wherever any
existing bush, shrub or groups of trees are a traffic hazard or encroachment
upon the street, the same shall be promptly removed by the adjoining property
owner upon being notified by the village board.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall be subject
to a class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 86, 10-13-1941; amd. 1989 Code)
4-2-2: DISEASED TREES; DUTY OF OWNER:
   A.   Dutch Elm Diseased Trees: All species and varieties of elm tree (trees
of genus Ulmus) infected with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease
(Certostomella ulmi) as determined by laboratory analysis by the section of
applied botany and plant pathology, Illinois natural history survey, or by
laboratories approved by such agency, are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   B.   Dead Elmwood: All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or
substantially dead, and all dead elmwood to which the bark is still attached,
which, because of their condition, may serve as a breeding place for the
European elm bark beetle (Scolytus multisriatus) and the native elm bark beetle
(Hylurgopinus rufpies) are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   C.   Dead Ashwood: All species and varieties of ash trees of any size that
are dead or substantially dead, and all dead ashwood to which the bark is still
attached, which, because of their condition, may serve as a breeding place for
the emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire) in any living stage of
development, are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   D.   Regulated Articles Pertaining To Ashwood: "Regulated articles" are
hereby defined as the following:
      1.   The emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire) in any living
stage of development.
      2.   Ash trees (Fraxinus spp) of any size, whether healthy, infected with
the emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire) in any living stage of
development, or dead or substantially dead.
      3.   Ash limbs and branches.
      4.   Any cut nonconiferous wood.
      5.   Bark from ash trees and wood chips larger than one inch (1") in two
(2) dimensions from ash trees.
      6.   Ash logs and lumber with either the bark or outer one-half inch (1/
2") of sapwood or both, attached.
      7.   Any item made from or containing the wood of the ash tree which is
capable of spreading the emerald ash borer.
      8.   Any other article, product, or means of conveyance which the
director of the Illinois department of agriculture determines to present the
risk of spread of the emerald ash borer in any stage of development.
   E.   Dutch Elm Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
owner of any lot or parcel of land in the village to permit or maintain on any
such lot or parcel of land, any elm tree or dead elmwood which, as provided in
subsection A or B of this section, is a public nuisance, and it shall be the
duty of any such owner promptly to remove and dispose of any such elm tree or
dead elmwood in a manner permitted by the village president or his duly
authorized representative.
   F.   Emerald Ash Borer Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any owner of any lot or parcel of land in the village to permit or maintain
on any such lot or parcel any ash tree infected with the emerald ash borer or
any dead or substantially dead ash tree, which as provided in subsection C or D
of this section, is a public nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the owner
promptly to remove and dispose of any such ash tree or dead ashwood under the
supervision and direction of the village president or his duly authorized
representative and in any event in compliance with subsection G of this
section. Whenever any ash tree is removed from any lot or parcel of land in the
village, the owner of such lot shall cause the ash stump to be ground to eight
inches (8") below the soil surface and covered with soil.
   G.   Unlawful Disposal Of Regulated Materials Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any owner of any lot or parcel of land in the village and for any
landscape contractor or other person to remove from any such lot or parcel of
land any regulated articles unless: 1) the regulated articles have been chipped
or processed to a size measuring less than one inch (1.0") in two (2)
dimension; 2) the bark and outer one-half inch (1/2") of sapwood has been
removed; or 3) the regulated articles are moved to a certified processing site,
as certified by the director of the Illinois department of agriculture, by a
landscape contractor who shall have in his or her possession a fully executed,
certified copy of the Illinois department of agriculture's emerald ash borer
quarantine zone compliance agreement. (Ord. 2010-03, 4-12-2010)
4-2-3: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES, INSPECT TREES, NOTICE TO OWNER TO ABATE;
REMOVAL OF VILLAGE TREES:
   A.   Inspections And Analyses: In order to carry out the purposes of this
chapter and to implement the enforcement thereof, the village president, or his
duly authorized representative, is hereby authorized and empowered to enter
upon any lot or parcel of land in the village at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of inspecting any elm trees, dead elmwood, ash trees, dead ashwood, or
regulated articles situated thereon and the village president or his duly
authorized representative, may remove such specimens from any such trees as are
required for the purpose of laboratory analysis referred to in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, or to determine whether such elm trees or ash trees are
public nuisances as provided in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, or to determine whether regulated articles are located
on any such lot or parcel of land or have been removed from any such lot or
parcel of land in violation of subsection 4-2-2G of this chapter.
   B.   Interfering With Inspection Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to take any action to prevent the enforcement officer, or his duly
authorized representative, from entering on any lot or parcel of land in the
village for the purpose of such inspection, or to interfere with the village
president, or such representative, in the performance of any of his duties
provided for under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Notice To Abate: If on laboratory analysis of specimens removed from
any elm tree by the enforcement officer or his duly authorized representative,
it is determined that such tree is a public nuisance, or if the village
president determines, as provided in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, that any dead, or substantially dead, elm tree, or dead
elmwood, is a public nuisance or that any dead, or substantially dead, ash
tree, or dead ashwood, is a public nuisance, or that any regulated articles
require removal to a certified processing site, as required by subsection 4-2-
2G of this chapter, the village president shall serve or cause to be served
upon the person that is owner of the lot or parcel of land on which such elm
tree, dead elmwood, ash tree, dead ashwood or regulated articles are located, a
written notice requiring such owner to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. Service of the notice shall be by personal service, if the owner of
the lot or parcel of land on which the infected elm tree or ash tree, as
aforesaid, is located is a resident of the village. If such owner cannot be
found in the village or is a nonresident of the village, written notice shall
be served by certified mail, addressed to the owner at his last known address,
and by publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village.
   D.   Abatement By Village: If the person upon whom such notice is served
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of this chapter and
the notice demanding such compliance by the village president, within thirty
(30) days after service of such notice, the village president, or his duly
authorized representative, may proceed to remove and dispose of such infected
elm tree, dead elmwood, infected ash tree, dead ashwood or regulated articles
in a manner permitted by the village, and assess the cost thereof against the
owner of such lot or parcel of land with an invoice describing the charges, and
the amount of such invoice shall be paid by such owner to the village within
thirty (30) days after the date of such invoice. If the invoice is not paid
within the time provided, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared
to be delinquent and thereafter such delinquency shall constitute a lien upon
the real estate of the owner provided that the village president or his duly
authorized representative first notifies such owner in writing of the
delinquency and grants the owner an additional fifteen (15) days from date of
the written notification to pay the delinquent charges in full. If the
delinquent invoice is not paid within the time provided in such written
notification, then either the village president or his duly authorized
representative is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien
in the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County, Illinois, which notice
of lien shall consist of a sworn statement executed by the village president
setting out the name(s) of the owner(s) of the real estate, a description of
the owner's real estate, the amounts of monies due, and the date or dates when
such amount or amounts became delinquent. When a notice of lien has been so
recorded, the filing of such notice in the aforesaid office shall be deemed
notice for the payment of all charges related to the compliance actions paid
for by the village, the cost of recording the notice and the legal enforcement
fees of the village, which shall be charged to the owner and constitute a lien
upon the real estate of the owner in addition to the amount of the delinquent
invoice charge. The failure of the village president or his duly authorized
representative to record such notice of any such lien shall not affect the
right of the village to foreclose the lien for the delinquent invoice or the
right to pursue any other legal remedy.
   E.   Village Costs Added To Penalty: Village removes from any lot or parcel
of land in the village, pursuant to this chapter, any infected elm tree, or any
dead, or substantially dead, elm tree, or dead elmwood, or any infected ash
tree or any dead or substantially dead ash tree, or dead ashwood, which is
found to be a public nuisance as provided in this chapter, the assessment of
the cost of the work done by the village against the owner of the lot or parcel
of land involved shall be in addition to the penalties imposed in section
4-2-5 of this chapter for any violation or noncompliance with any provision of
this chapter.
   F.   Diseased Trees And Regulated Articles On Village Property: The village
shall cause any elm tree, dead elmwood, ash tree or dead ashwood which is a
public nuisance, as provided by section
4-2-2 of this chapter, and is located on property owned by the village to be
promptly removed and disposed of in a manner permitted by the village and at
the expense of the village. The village shall not remove any regulated articles
from property owned by the village except if such removal is made to a
certified processing site, as required by subsection 4-2-2G of this chapter,
under the supervision of the village president or his duly authorized
representative, at the expense of the village. (Ord. 2010-03, 4-12-2010)
4-2-4: DANGEROUS TREES:
   A.   For purposes of this section, a "dangerous tree" means any tree, limb
or portion thereof which has fallen or threatens to fall and which creates a
risk of imminent danger or hazard to persons or property such as trees which
have fallen on houses or power lines or block safe passage of, or obstruct, in
whole or in part, streets, easements or bicycle paths, or which threaten to do
so after having become uprooted or unstable as a result of construction
activities, disease, age or severe weather, including a tornado, windstorm,
flood, freeze, or other natural disaster. For purposes of this section, the
term "owner" shall include the legal and beneficial owners of any lot or parcel
of land in the village and any adult family members, guests, or tenants
occupying the real estate in question. An owner shall be considered to be the
owner of any dangerous tree that is planted or was originally located on such
owner's property: If a tree falls across a street, the owner of the property
where the tree was originally planted shall remain the owner of such tree
although the final resting position of the tree may occupy a portion of another
owner's property or on public property.
   B.   Immediately after an owner learns that a dangerous tree is located on
or fallen from such owner's property or is given notice of such fact from the
village, it shall be the duty of such owner promptly to remove and dispose of
such dangerous tree and to take such other steps as shall be necessary to
eliminate the risk of imminent danger or hazard to persons or property arising
from such dangerous tree. Any dangerous tree is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for an owner knowingly to permit a dangerous
tree for which such owner is responsible to remain an imminent danger to
persons or property. With respect to any dangerous tree that has not yet
fallen, the owner of the dangerous tree shall proceed with its removal and
disposal under the supervision and direction of the village president or his
duly authorized representative. The removal and disposal of any dangerous ash
tree must be performed in accordance with all other provisions of this chapter,
if regulated articles are present.
   C.   If any dangerous tree is not removed or the risk of imminent danger
abated forthwith as required by this section, the village or its agents may
enter upon the property for the purpose of removing the dangerous tree or
abating the imminent danger, and in such event the village shall have the right
to invoice the owner of the property in question for the cost of said removal
or abatement. If the delinquent invoice is not paid within thirty (30) days
after the date of such invoice, then either the village president or his duly
authorized representative is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of
such lien in the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County, Illinois,
which notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement executed by the village
president setting out the name(s) of the owner(s) of the real estate, a
description of the owner's real estate, the amounts of monies due, and the date
or dates when such amount or amounts became delinquent. When a notice of lien
has been so recorded, the filing of such notice in the aforesaid office shall
be deemed notice for the payment of all charges related to the compliance
actions paid for by the village, the cost of recording the notice and such
legal enforcement fees of the village, which shall be charged to the owner and
constitute a lien upon the real estate of the owner in addition to the amount
of the delinquent invoice charge. The failure of the village president or his
duly authorized representative to record such notice of any such lien shall not
affect the right of the village to foreclose the lien for the delinquent
invoice or the right to pursue any other legal remedy. (Ord. 2010-03, 4-12-
2010)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code; amd. Ord. 2010-03, 4-12-2010)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Placement Of Containers For Pick Up
4-3-2: Yard Waste Pick Up
4-3-3: Hazardous Refuse Deposits
4-3-1: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS FOR PICK UP:
Provisions of this chapter shall be in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-19-1 et seq., and 5/11-20-13. No bags, bundles, boxes or other
containers of yard refuse or other waste materials shall be placed on any
village parkway preceding the day of collection, and containers shall be
removed from the parkway by eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on the day of collection.
(Ord., 6-8-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a class
A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
4-3-2: YARD WASTE PICK UP:
Yard waste material should be disposed of in a manner which complies with the
statutes of the state, and is approved by the village trustees. (Ord., 6-11-
1990)
4-3-3: HAZARDOUS REFUSE DEPOSITS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on property
owned or leased by the village or on the private property of another any
unsightly material, waste products, refuse, debris, trash, waste lumber or any
material that may become a breeding place for insects, rodents or vermin, that
may give off noxious odors or create a fire or health hazard or that may change
the flow of water runoff within the village.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code, under the following class of violation:
 
One cubic yard or less of material   Class B
More than one cubic yard of material Class D
 
   (Ord., 7-8-1985)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Permit Required
4-4-2: Plans And Specifications
4-4-3: Application Of Provisions
4-4-4: Penalties
4-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No cemetery or other burial place, or place for burying the dead shall be
hereafter established, located or permitted within the corporate limits of the
village or within the territory lying outside of the corporate limits of the
village and within one mile of said corporate limits, except by permission
first had and obtained from the village president and village board of
trustees. (Ord., 4-2-1928)
4-4-2: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
When any person or persons shall desire to lay out and establish a cemetery or
other burial place or place for burying the dead in the village or within the
territory lying outside the limits of the village and within one mile of said
limits, such person or persons shall first present to the village president and
village board a plat showing the general outline, giving the lots, walks and
drives and the amount of territory contained therein so that the village
president and village board can have a clear knowledge of the purposes of
creating or laying out said cemetery, and such person or persons shall, on the
request of the village president and village board, furnish to the village
president and village board a plain, concise statement of the condition in
which said cemetery is to be kept and the manner in which the dead are to be
buried therein and any other information that the village president and village
board may desire with reference thereto, and if the village president and
village board shall be satisfied that the cemetery or burial place so desired
to be established will not be a menace to the health or welfare of the citizens
or any persons residing in the village and that the cemetery or burial place
will be operated in accordance with the health laws or ordinances of the
village, the village president and village board may grant said person or
persons so applying for the same, a permit to establish such cemetery or burial
place according to the plans and specifications so furnished the village
president and village board, which plans and specifications shall be filed and
kept in the records of the village. (Ord., 4-2-1928)
4-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to interfere with the cemeteries already
established and existing within the corporate limits of the village and shall
not be construed to prohibit said cemeteries heretofore established and
existing within the corporate limits of the village or within the territory
lying within one mile of the corporate limits from acquiring, by purchase, gift
or grant, any additional land necessary for their cemeteries. (Ord., 4-2-1928)
4-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a class
C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 4-2-1928; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES; REGISTRY FOR VACANT BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-5-2: Other Ordinances
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Prohibition On Maintaining Nuisances
4-5-5: Inspections; Violation Notices; Lien Rights
4-5-6: Determination Of Vacant Buildings
4-5-7: Appeal Of Determination Of Vacant Buildings
4-5-8: Obligation To Register Vacant Buildings
4-5-9: Requirement To Submit Plan
4-5-10: Standards For Approval Of Plan
4-5-11: Authority To Modify Plan
4-5-12: Failure To Comply With Plan
4-5-13: Other Enforcement
4-5-14: Certification
4-5-15: Appeals
4-5-16: Notice Of Foreclosure
4-5-17: Enforcement And Penalties
4-5-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare by:
   A.   Providing for administration, enforcement, including abatement of
public nuisances, and imposition of penalties.
   B.   Establishing a program for identification, registration, and regulation
of buildings which are or become vacant on and after the effective date of this
chapter.
   C.   Determining the responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings.
In all cases where no provision is made in this chapter defining what nuisances
are and how the same may be removed, abated or prevented, in addition to what
may be declared such in this chapter, those offenses which are known to the
common law of the land and the statutes of the state as nuisances may, in case
the same exist within the village limits or within one-half (1/2) mile thereof
1 , be treated as such and proceeded against as in this chapter provided, or in
accordance with any other law which shall give the officer trying the same
jurisdiction. This chapter shall be construed liberally to effect its purposes.
(Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2.
4-5-2: OTHER ORDINANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations which prescribe
standards other than are provided herein, and in the event of conflict, the
most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by the context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
BUILDING: Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering any
occupancy.
DANGEROUS OR UNSAFE BUILDING: All buildings or structures that are found to
pose a danger to the life, health, property or safety of the public by not
providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn the public in the event of a
fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment, or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty or incomplete
construction or unstable, that partial or complete collapse or systems failures
are possible. A building determined to be a dangerous or unsafe building is a
public nuisance.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, trust, or corporation having a legal
or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of
the state, county, or municipality as holding title to the property; or
otherwise having control or possession of the property, including the guardian
of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the
estate of such person, if ordered to take possession of real property by a
court.
PERSON: Includes a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust,
or other entity as well as an individual.
PEST CONTROL ACTIVITY: The extermination of pests or the prevention of the
ingress of pests.
PESTS: Undesirable arthropods (including certain insects, spiders, mites,
ticks, and related organisms), wood infesting organisms, rats, mice, and other
obnoxious undesirable animals, but does not include a feral cat, a "companion
animal" as that term is defined in the humane care for animals act 1 ,
"animals" as that term is defined in the Illinois diseased animals act 2 , or
animals protected by the wildlife code 3 .
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structure thereon.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Includes the following:
   A.   The physical condition, or uses of any premises regarded as a public
nuisance at common law, under the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or under this
code; or
   B.   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences
or structures; or
   C.   Any building which has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities; or
   D.   Any building designated pursuant to this chapter as unsafe for human
habitation or use; or
   E.   Any building which is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or property; or
   F.   Any premises which is unsanitary, is exhibiting rodent harborage or
infestation, or which is littered with rubbish or garbage, or which has an
uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
   G.   Any building that is: dangerous; in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; improperly constructed; unsecured; vacant with the
doors, windows, or other openings boarded up or secured by any means other than
conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new
construction of similar type; damaged by fire to the extent that it no longer
provides shelter; in danger of collapse or structural failure; and dangerous to
anyone on or near the premises; or
   H.   Any building designated as a "dangerous or unsafe building" as defined
in this chapter; or a public nuisance anywhere in this code, as it may be
amended.
RUBBISH: Any unsightly material, waste products, refuse, debris, trash or waste
lumber deposited, left, piled or scattered that may become a breeding place for
insects, rodents or vermin or that may give off unpleasant odors or create a
health or fire hazard where located.
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises,
including buildings ordered vacated by the building commissioner pursuant to
authority granted by this code. This definition does not include a building
that is actively for sale, lease or rent, as evidenced by a contractual
agreement between the homeowner of record and a licensed real estate agent or
brokerage, and performance of sufficient maintenance that the building or the
property on which it sits does not become a nuisance.
VACANT BUILDING: Any building that has not been legally occupied for a
consecutive period of at least sixty (60) days by any lawful occupant or
occupants unless one of the following is true:
   A.   The building is the subject of an active building permit for repair or
rehabilitation and the owner is progressing diligently to complete the repair
or rehabilitation.
   B.   The building meets all codes, is not in a state of disrepair or
deterioration, is ready for occupancy, and is actively being offered for sale,
lease or rent; or is actively being maintained and monitored by the owner.
WEEDS: Any annual or perennial herbaceous plant of volunteer growth, not
cultivated or useful for human food or enjoyment; and any plant growth that may
conceal rubbish, debris or filthy deposits, or constitute a fire hazard when
dry, or any plant that causes or adds its influence in bringing on hay fever,
or other similar or noxious plant, and all plants fitting within the term
"weeds" as used in the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 70.
2 2. 510 ILCS 50.
3 1. 520 ILCS 5.
4-5-4: PROHIBITION ON MAINTAINING NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, and any lessee, or occupant, and any agent,
servant, representative, or employee of any such owner, lessee or occupant,
having control of any premises to allow or maintain on such premises any
"rubbish" as defined in this chapter to stand and accumulate thereon or any
growth of weeds to the height of over six inches (6"), or to allow any
dangerous or unsafe building to remain thereon. The growth of weeds and any
rubbish on such premises in violation of this chapter are hereby declared to be
a public nuisance. The violator shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in
section
4-5-17 of this chapter.
   A.   Weeds, when cut down, and rubbish, when collected, must be removed from
the lot or disposed of in such manner as not to create a nuisance or hazard.
   B.   In all cases where the owner of a dangerous or unsafe building does not
cause said building or structure to be removed or repaired so as to abate the
nuisance, the village board of trustees is authorized to cause said building or
structure to be razed, in whole or in part, or to be so repaired or altered as
to abate said nuisance, and the cost thereof may be recovered by the village
from said owner. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-5: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATION NOTICES; LIEN RIGHTS:
   A.   Inspections Authorized: The village president, whenever he shall deem
such an inspection necessary, may authorize the building commissioner or other
village official to make regular inspections to determine the condition of the
buildings located within the village for the purpose of safeguarding the health
and safety of all occupants and of the general public; provided, however, that
such inspections must be made at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice
to, and with the consent of, the owner or operator and the occupant, except
when an existing emergency requires immediate action.
   B.   When Legal Process Required: If the owner or operator or occupant
refuses entry, then an order of court, subpoena and other legal process shall
be necessary to any entry, examination or survey in connection with the
inspections authorized by this section.
   C.   Inspection Upon Warrant: Whenever the building commissioner or other
official, after presentation of proper credentials and request for entry to
inspect, is refused access to any building, the village is authorized to
petition any judge for the issuance of a search warrant authorizing the
inspection of such building, for the purpose of making such inspections as
shall be necessary to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Owner's Right Of Entry: Every tenant of a building shall give the owner
thereof, or his agent access to any part of such building, for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted or
any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Entry
pursuant to this subsection shall be made only at reasonable times and after
reasonable notice to the occupant unless an existing emergency requires
immediate action.
   E.   Notice Required: Whenever in the opinion of the building commissioner
or other official making any inspection, any violation of the provisions of
this chapter is found to exist, the village shall, within fifteen (15) days
after discovery of such violation by the building commissioner or other
official, serve written notice of such alleged violation upon the owner,
operator or occupant responsible therefor. A copy of such notice shall be kept
by the village clerk.
   F.   Method Of Service: Notice shall be given either by personal service or
by mailing a copy thereof to the alleged violator by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at his last known address or, in the event neither of these
is effective to actually notify the alleged violator, by posting a copy thereof
in a conspicuous place in or about the building containing the alleged
violation.
   G.   Required Contents: Such notice may include more than one alleged
violation, shall demand compliance with this chapter and shall specify a period
of time for compliance, which shall be such time as, in the opinion of the
building commissioner, is reasonably required to effect changes necessary for
compliance.
   H.   Permissible Contents: Such notice may contain an outline of remedial
action which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and with any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   I.   Designation Of Dangerous Or Unsafe Building: If any alleged violation,
of which notice has been given in conformity with this section, is not
corrected or eliminated within the time specified in such notice, then in
addition to exercising such other remedies as may be provided in this chapter,
where the alleged violations are of such a nature or extent that, in the
opinion of the building commissioner or other official making inspection, they
render the building a dangerous or unsafe building, the building commissioner
or other official shall make written findings that declare and designate the
building as a dangerous or unsafe building and a public nuisance. Notice of
such findings shall be given in compliance with the following procedures:
      1.   Notice And Placarding: The village shall serve notice of the
designation of the building as a dangerous or unsafe building and a public
nuisance, upon the owner, operator, occupant and lienholders of record. Service
shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, and by posting a placard
at each entrance of the affected building. Where the identity or whereabouts of
the owner or lienholder cannot be ascertained, notice mailed to the person or
persons in whose name the premises were last assessed shall be sufficient
notice.
      2.   Requirements Of Placard: The notices and placards required by this
subsection shall state that the affected building is by such notice or placard
declared to be a dangerous or unsafe building and a public nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; shall state the specific
alleged uncorrected violations of this chapter deemed sufficient to justify
such designation; and shall further state that such designation may result in
an order for demolition. Such notice shall require the party to appear before
the building commissioner at a hearing to be held at a specified place and
time, not less than ten (10) days following the date of the notice, to show
cause why the designated building or part thereof, should not be vacated and
repaired or demolished in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Removing Placard: No person shall deface or remove the placard
required by this subsection from any building or part thereof, which has been
designated as dangerous or unsafe and a public nuisance, except as provided in
this chapter.
   J.   Self-Help By Village To Remove Garbage Or Debris, Weeds, Hazardous
Materials, Control For Pests Or Abate Public Nuisances: The village may provide
for the removal of garbage and debris, weeds or hazardous materials from any
premises or provide pest control activity thereon, or the abatement of any
public nuisance located on a premises when the owner of such premises, after
notice pursuant to subsection E of this section, refuses or neglects to comply
with the abatement of any public nuisance as required by this chapter, within
ten (10) days after the notice is given as provided in subsection E of this
section. The reasonable cost thereof, in addition to the fine specified in
section
4-5-17 of this chapter, shall be chargeable to both the person who owns and the
one who controls the premises, to be collected by suit or otherwise, from such
owner. Any person liable hereunder for payment of the foregoing expense to the
village shall pay the full amount of said charge within ten (10) days after the
date of mailing a statement to the owner at his last known address, or said
charge shall be delinquent. Failure to pay the charge within the time specified
shall thereafter subject the violator to a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
unpaid amount of said delinquent charge, or fifty dollars ($50.00), whichever
is greater, which shall be collected as part of said delinquent charge. All of
the foregoing costs are a lien upon the premises affected, superior to all
subsequent liens and encumbrances, except tax liens and as otherwise provided
by the Illinois municipal code, if within sixty (60) days after such cost and
expense is incurred, the village clerk, in the name of the village, files
notice of lien in the office of the recorder of deeds in the county in which
such real estate is located or in the office of the registrar of titles of such
county if the real estate affected is registered under the torrens system. The
notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description
of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the amount of
money representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service,
and 3) the date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
municipality. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village and the release may be filed of record as in the
case of filing notice of lien. The lien may be enforced by proceedings to
foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. Suit to foreclose
this lien shall be commenced within two (2) years after the date of filing
notice of lien. The village's exercise of rights under this section shall not
limit the village's exercise of any other legal or equitable remedies available
to the village. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-6: DETERMINATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   On a regular basis, the village president may direct the building
commissioner to evaluate all buildings in the village appearing to be
unoccupied and make a determination for each as to whether the building is a
"vacant building" within the meaning of this chapter. Using the exemptions
provided in such definition, the building commissioner may determine that a
building is not to be regulated under this chapter for a stated period, if upon
consideration of reliable, substantiated and sufficient evidence, the building
commissioner determines that regulation of the building under this chapter
would not serve the public health, welfare, and safety and makes written
findings in support of this decision. The determination shall be in writing and
shall state the factual basis for the determination.
   B.   For buildings the building commissioner determines to be "vacant
buildings", the village shall, within seven (7) days of receiving such
determination, send notice of this written determination with the factual
findings to the last taxpayer of record listed on the most recent Cook County
tax roll. Said notice of determination shall be sent first class United States
mail, with proper postage prepaid. Failure of delivery shall not excuse a
person from complying with this chapter. The village may personally serve or
cause personal service of the notice of determination. Any person making such
service shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The
village clerk shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each notice of
determination sent.
   C.   The notice shall specify a date and time on which the owner may
voluntarily allow for a code compliance inspection of the interior of the
vacant building and surrounding yards and property to determine the extent of
compliance with applicable property, building, health, fire, and plumbing
codes.
   D.   If a voluntary code compliance inspection is scheduled by the owner and
a plan to maintain the structure, yards and property is submitted by the owner
to, and approved by, the village, then no costs for the code compliance
inspection will be assessed by the village, but if a voluntary code compliance
inspection is not scheduled by the owner, then all village costs and fees
associated to all actions to gain entry to the structure, yards and property
will be the responsibility of the owner. Unpaid costs and fees shall be
recaptured by a lien upon the premises.
   E.   The notice shall contain a statement of the obligations of the owner of
a building determined to be vacant, a copy of the registration form the owner
is required to file pursuant to section
4-5-8 of this chapter, and a notice of the owner's right to appeal the building
commissioner's determination. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-7: APPEAL OF DETERMINATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   An owner of a building determined by the building commissioner to be a
"vacant building" as defined in this chapter may appeal that determination to
the village manager. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with
the village clerk within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing of the notice
of determination. The filing of an appeal stays the owner's obligation to
register his building as required by section
4-5-8 of this chapter. The appeal shall contain a complete statement of the
reasons the owner disputes the building commissioner's determination, shall set
forth specific facts in support thereof, and shall include all evidence the
owner relies upon to support the appeal. The village president shall decide the
appeal on the basis of facts presented by the owner in his or her written
appeal and the building commissioner's written determination.
   B.   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to persuade
the village president that had the evidence been known to the building
commissioner at the time the building commissioner made the determination, the
building commissioner would more likely than not have determined that the
subject building was not a "vacant building" within the meaning of this
chapter.
   C.   The village president shall send written notice of a decision to the
owner within ten (10) days of his or her receipt of the appeal. The village
president may, but is not required to, seek additional information from the
owner. The village president may, upon written notice thereof to the owner,
take no more than ten (10) additional days, to decide the appeal if he or she
determines that such additional time is required for consideration of the
appeal.
   D.   An owner who wishes to challenge applicability of this chapter to such
owner's building without the building commissioner's determination having been
made, shall set forth specific facts to support nonapplicability in writing to
the building commissioner. In the event the building commissioner determines
that the subject building is a "vacant building", the owner shall have the
right to appeal the building commissioner's determination to the village
president as provided for herein. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-8: OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   The owner of a building who knows, or from all the facts and
circumstances should know, that his or her building is or has become a "vacant
building" within the meaning of this chapter after the effective date of this
chapter, or the owner of a building, which the village determines at any time
to be a "vacant building", or the owner of a building whose appeal from the
building commissioner's determination has been denied by the village president
shall take the actions provided for in this section within fifteen (15) days
after either the date of the building commissioner's notice of determination or
occurrence of the facts that would cause a reasonable person to believe that
the building was a "vacant building", or denial of the appeal, whichever is
applicable.
      1.   Register the building with the building commissioner, on a form
provided by the building commissioner, and pay to the village the annual
nonprorated vacant building registration fee as provided in the annual fee
ordinance then in effect. The form shall include, as a minimum, the name,
street address, and telephone number of the owner (with a responder or
emergency operator on call on a 24 hour basis); the case name and number of any
litigation pending, concerning or affecting the building, including bankruptcy
cases; and the name, street address, and telephone number of all persons with
any legal interest in the building or the premises. The form shall require the
owner to identify a natural person twenty one (21) years of age or older who
maintains a permanent address in Cook County, Illinois, to accept service on
behalf of the owner with respect to any notices the building commissioner sends
pursuant to this chapter or service of process in any proceeding commenced to
enforce any provision of this chapter, and file with the building commissioner
on the registration form, the name, address, telephone number, of said person.
A street address is required. A post office box is not an acceptable address.
The form shall require the owner to indicate his or her "acceptance of notice
by posting" consenting to service of notices sent or required to be sent,
pursuant to this chapter, by posting on the building if the owner fails to
renew the registration, if required, or maintain as current with the building
commissioner the information required regarding the person designated to accept
notice and service of process.
      2.   Renew the vacant building registration each year on the anniversary
date of the first filing for the time the building remains vacant and pay the
annual fee as provided in the annual fee ordinance.
      3.   File an amended registration within fifteen (15) days of any change
in the information contained in the annual registration. A new registration is
required for any change in ownership whatsoever.
      4.   Allow for a code compliance inspection of the interior of the vacant
building. Such inspection will determine the extent of compliance with all
applicable village property, building, electrical, plumbing, fire and similar
codes.
      5.   Pay all village costs and fees provided in the annual fee ordinance
as a result of the code compliance inspection within thirty (30) days of the
inspection.
      6.   Obtain public liability insurance insuring against loss arising from
bodily injury or property damage and maintain such insurance for as long as the
building is vacant, and file evidence of such insurance with the building
commissioner. Such insurance shall have a minimum limit of liability of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      7.   On written notice from the village, provide bonded, licensed, and
insured security guard service at the building between the hours of three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Such service to remain in
place until the village gives written notice that the service is no longer
required. The village president may require such service when the building
commissioner makes a written determination that the vacant building constitutes
a fire hazard, is otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or
involves illegal or improper use, occupancy, or maintenance, under such
conditions that securing the building without fencing would be insufficient to
prevent the actual or threatened harm.
   B.   Registration does not exonerate the owner from compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances, including this chapter, nor does it preclude
any of the actions the village is authorized to take pursuant to this chapter
or elsewhere in this code. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-9: REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT PLAN:
   A.   At the time a vacant building is registered as required herein and in
any event not more than fifteen (15) days after requested by the village, the
owner shall submit a vacant building plan for approval by the village. The
village may prescribe a form for the plan. If the owner fails to submit the
plan as provided for by this section within a reasonable period of time as
required by this chapter, the village president may direct the building
commissioner to determine the plan. The plan shall contain the following as a
minimum:
      1.   A plan of action to repair any doors, windows, or other openings
which are boarded up or otherwise secured by any means other than conventional
methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new construction or
similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings being secured by
conventional methods used in the design of the building or by methods permitted
for new construction of similar type with board removed. The owner shall
maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state until the building is
reoccupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If the owner demonstrates
that securing of the building will provide adequate protection to the public,
the building commissioner may waive the requirement of an enclosure. The plan
shall specify how all premises upon which unoccupied or vacant buildings are
located and the exteriors shall at all times be brought into compliance with
this code.
      2.   For buildings and premises thereof that the building commissioner
determines as being or containing public nuisances, as defined in this chapter,
then the vacant building plan shall contain a plan of action to remedy such
public nuisance(s).
      3.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the building commissioner.
      4.   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
      5.   A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof and
the exteriors in compliance with this code.
      6.   A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
action required to achieve habitability.
      7.   Exterior lighting according to standards established by the building
commissioner.
      8.   All automatic fire sprinkler systems, alternative automatic fire
extinguishing systems, standpipe systems, and fire alarm and detection systems,
including monitoring by an RED center or a central station approved by the
village of Glenview fire department shall be maintained and remain in service.
   B.   No action plan shall provide for the boarding of any building to
achieve security or enclosure from the elements except on an emergency,
temporary basis when approved by the building commissioner. It is the policy of
the village that boarding is a temporary solution to prevent unauthorized entry
into a vacant building and that boarded buildings are a public nuisance. A
vacant building may not remain boarded longer than sixty (60) days unless an
extension of that time is part of a plan approved by the building commissioner.
   C.   The owner of a vacant property shall initiate and perform all remedial
actions in good faith necessary to cure all outstanding violations and bring
such property into compliance with this code. The village shall send inspection
reports to the owner within thirty (30) days after each inspection takes place.
Periodic reinspections shall take place, as necessary, until code compliance is
achieved and annually thereafter. Unpaid inspection fees shall be a lien upon
the premises. The certificate of occupancy for the building shall be revoked
when, based upon any inspection, the building commissioner or other official
determines the building is unfit for occupancy, does not meet minimum
requirements for safety and occupancy provided in this code or is a "public
nuisance", as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-10: STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF PLAN:
   A.   The building commissioner shall review the proposed vacant building
plan in accordance with the standards below. The vacant building plan shall
achieve compliance with this chapter, as determined by the building
commissioner, within ninety (90) days of submission, with such extensions as
weather or circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the owner, as
determined by the building commissioner, shall warrant; provided, that any
violations which could lead to imminent loss of life or material damage to
property shall be corrected forthwith. Based upon the report of the building
commissioner, the village president shall send notice to the owner of the
vacant building of the village's determination whether to approve the plan. In
considering the appropriateness of the plan, the building commissioner shall
include the following in his or her consideration and shall make written
findings as to each:
      1.   The purposes of this chapter and intent of the village to minimize
the time a building is temporarily boarded or otherwise vacant.
      2.   The effect of the building and the proposed plan on adjoining
property.
      3.   The length of time the building has been vacant.
      4.   The presence of any public nuisances on the property.
      5.   The likelihood that the plan or portion(s) thereof will prevent or
ameliorate the condition it is designed to address.
   B.   The village reserves the right to elect to have and enforce a lien upon
the vacant property for all of the village's costs and expenses, which lien
shall be superior to all other liens and encumbrances as permitted by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15.1, and nothing in this chapter or in
connection with the review or approval of a vacant property plan shall be
construed as a limitation or waiver by the village of such lien rights. (Ord.
2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-11: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY PLAN:
The village shall, upon notice to the vacant building owner, have the right to
modify the vacant building plan by modifying the dates of performance, the
proposed methods of action, or by imposing additional requirements consistent
with this chapter as deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-12: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN:
Failure to comply with the approved plan shall constitute a violation of this
chapter subjecting the owner of the building to penalties as provided in this
chapter and to any remedies the village may avail itself of as provided for
herein and elsewhere in this code, including, but not limited to, an action to
compel correction of property maintenance violations. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-13: OTHER ENFORCEMENT:
The registration of a vacant building shall not preclude action by the village
to demolish or to take other action against the building pursuant to other
provisions of this chapter, this code, or other applicable legislation. (Ord.
2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-14: CERTIFICATION:
A certificate of code compliance for vacant buildings issued by the building
commissioner and payment in full of all fees, fines, water bills, and other
financial obligations imposed pursuant to this code are required prior to any
occupancy of a vacant building which was required to file and implement a
vacant building plan. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-15: APPEALS:
Appeals may be taken to the zoning board of appeals, established by the zoning
ordinance of the village by the following persons, at the following times, in
the following manner, and with the following effects (provided, that appeal of
the designation of a vacant property shall not be subject to this section, but
shall be determined in accordance with section
4-5-7 of this chapter):
   A.   Scope Of Appeal: Subject to the provisions of this section, an appeal
may be taken from any written finding or decision issued by the village or
notice of violation issued pursuant thereto, which finds a violation of any
provision of this chapter; designates any building unfit for human occupancy or
dangerous and a public nuisance; orders the vacation, repair or demolition of
any building; or refuses to authorize the resumption of human occupancy in any
building.
   B.   Persons Entitled To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a decision within
the scope of this section may appeal from such decision.
   C.   Time Of Appeal: An appeal shall be commenced within thirty five (35)
days of the date of the receipt of notice of the decision appealed from.
Appeals not commenced within such time shall be deemed waived.
   D.   Commencement Of Appeal: An appeal under this section shall be commenced
by filing with the village clerk a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
thereof. The village clerk shall forthwith transmit to the chairman of the
board of appeals all of the papers constituting the records upon which the
decision from which appeal has been taken was made. The notice of appeal and
the appeal itself shall be filed in such number of copies, be in such form and
contain such information as the board may provide from time to time by general
rule.
   E.   Stay Pending Appeal: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the decision appealed from and all duties imposed thereby,
unless the building commissioner certifies to the board of appeals, after the
notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause immediate hazards to human
life, health or safety, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the board or by
a court of record upon application following notice to the building
commissioner and upon due cause shown. Any stay in effect pursuant to this
subsection shall continue until a decision on the appeal is rendered pursuant
to subsection F of this section.
   F.   Action On Appeal: The board shall select a reasonable time and place
for a public hearing on the appeal, shall give due notice thereof to the
parties having a known interest therein and shall render a written decision
without unreasonable delay. Upon the concurring vote of a majority of its
members then holding office, the board may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify, the decision from which the appeal was taken, and to that
end the board shall have all the powers of the building commissioner with
respect to such decision. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-16: NOTICE OF FORECLOSURE:
The village website http://villageofgolf.us shall provide the address at which
the village is to be mailed a notice of foreclosure by any party who initiates,
by complaint or counterclaim, a foreclosure of residential real estate located
in the village. Such party shall be obligated to send, by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a notice of foreclosure to the village within ten (10) days
after the foreclosure is initiated. The notice of foreclosure shall comply with
the requirements of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-1503(a). Any party
initiating, by complaint or counterclaim, a foreclosure of residential real
estate located in the village, who shall fail to provide the village with the
notice of foreclosure as required by the Illinois code of civil procedure and
this section shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in section
4-5-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
4-5-17: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies
available to the village. Such other remedies include, but are not limited to,
injunctive relief, application to a court of competent jurisdiction for a
receiver, demolition, or condemnation, contracting for the repair or purchase
of the premises, or foreclosure of any lien the village may have thereon.
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be committed each day on which
such person or persons shall violate the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The village may enforce this chapter in its administrative adjudication
system or through the court system.
   D.   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the village from immediately
condemning as provided for in this code a building or taking other immediate
action upon a determination that the building is a public nuisance or poses an
imminent danger to the occupants of the building, or the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-10-2010)
CHAPTER 6
TREE PRESERVATION
SECTION:
4-6-1: Title
4-6-2: Intent And Purpose
4-6-3: Definitions
4-6-4: Tree Removal Permit Regulations
4-6-5: Tree Replacement Plans
4-6-6: Tree Protection Plans
4-6-7: Interpretation; Appeals
4-6-8: Penalty
4-6-9: Appendices
4-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the TREE PRESERVATION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
While allowing for reasonable improvement of land within the village, it is the
stated public policy of the village to maintain existing trees and add to the
tree population within the village, where possible. The preservation of
existing trees in the village and the planting of additional trees are intended
to accomplish, where possible, the following objectives:
   A.   To preserve trees as an important public resource enhancing the quality
of life and the general welfare of the village and enhancing its unique
character and physical, historical, and aesthetic environment;
   B.   To preserve the essential character of those areas throughout the
community which are heavily wooded and in a more natural state;
   C.   To enhance and preserve the air quality of the village through the
filtering effect of trees on air pollutants;
   D.   To reduce noise within the village through the baffle and barrier
effect of trees on the spread of noise;
   E.   To reduce topsoil erosion through the soil retention effect of tree
roots;
   F.   To reduce energy consumption through the windbreak and shade effects of
trees when they are properly placed on the lot;
   G.   To preserve and enhance nesting areas for birds and other wildlife
which in turn assist in the control of insects;
   H.   To reduce stormwater runoff and the costs associated therewith and
replenish groundwater supplies; and
   I.   To protect and increase property values. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
CALIPER: The diameter of a tree as measured at a point six inches (6") above
the existing grade at the base of a tree. This point of measurement is used for
nursery stock and replacement trees.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: The area inscribed by an imaginary circular line on the
ground beneath a tree having as its center point the center of the trunk of the
tree and a radius equal to one foot (1') for every inch of dbh.
DAMAGE: The taking of any direct or indirect action that causes or, by being
contrary to national standards, is likely to cause, the death of a tree or a
significant loss of a tree's structural integrity. Examples of actions damaging
to a tree include: destruction, poisoning, carving, mutilating, girdling,
severing the main trunk, leader, or large branches or roots, removing any
portion of the bark from the main trunk, leader, or large branches, touching
with live wires, crushing or exposing the roots, digging or drilling any hole
or trench within the critical root zone, filling with soil or other materials
within the critical root zone, compacting a substantial portion of the soil in
the critical root zone, or moving a tree to another location. Without
limitation of the foregoing, "damage" does not include the pruning of trees in
accordance with national standards.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (dbh): The diameter of the trunk of a tree measured
in inches, at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above the existing grade
at the base of the tree. This point of measurement is used for measuring mature
and established trees. The dbh of a multi-trunk tree shall be the aggregate
diameter (meaning the sum of dbh of each trunk) of such tree.
FEE IN LIEU OF REPLACEMENT: The fee required to be paid when an owner is
excused from planting replacement trees at the rate otherwise applicable for
removed protected trees (i.e., when insufficient space is available for
planting of the required trees). The fee in lieu of replacement shall be as set
forth from time to time in the annual fee schedule.
NATIONAL STANDARDS: Those practices with respect to the proper care and
maintenance of trees that follow the guidelines published by the International
Society of Arboriculture entitled "Standard Practices For Tree, Shrub, And
Other Woody Plant Maintenance" (ANSI A300), as amended from time to time, or
similar standards and guidelines regularly applied by trained arborists with
respect to the proper care and maintenance of trees.
PROTECTED TREE: Any tree located on a lot in the village that has a dbh of four
inches (4") or greater, but protected trees shall not include any invasive or
nuisance tree, as from time to time specified by the village arborist, such as:
common buckthorn, black locust, Siberian elm, Chinese elm, slippery elm and box
elder.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The physical detachment or elimination of a tree, or the
effective detachment or elimination of a tree, through damage, cutting of major
vegetation to the ground, complete extraction or killing by spraying, girdling,
root cutting, or otherwise. Without limitation of the foregoing, "remove" or
"removal" does not include the pruning of trees in accordance with national
standards.
TREE: A self-supporting, woody plant, together with its root system, having a
well defined stem or trunk or a multi-stemmed trunk system, a more or less well
defined crown, and a mature height of at least eight feet (8'). "Tree" shall
not include trees in containers or nursery stock trees maintained for resale.
TREE EMERGENCY: The occurrence of any event as a result of which a tree poses a
risk of imminent danger or hazard to persons or property and ought to be cut or
removed immediately or with as little delay as possible (i.e., a tree has
fallen on a building or a power line or blocks safe passage of streets or
become uprooted or unstable as a result of severe weather, ice, floods or high
winds).
TREE PROTECTION PLAN: The written plan submitted by an owner to the village
pursuant to this chapter under which the owner agrees to take specific measures
to preserve existing trees from damage that may otherwise occur due to
construction activities.
TREE REMOVAL PERMIT: The written permit issued by the village to authorize the
removal of a protected tree pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN: The written plan submitted by an owner to the village
pursuant to this chapter under which the owner becomes obligated to replace
protected trees for which removal is sought.
TREE SURVEY: A graphic display indicating location, size, species (both
scientific and common names) and condition of all trees on a parcel with a dbh
of four inches (4") or greater as well as all trees that are located within
fifteen feet (15') of the lot line on adjacent parcels that fall within
preceding size classification. All trees illustrated on the tree survey shall
be numbered on the plan and tagged with the corresponding number on the site.
VILLAGE ARBORIST: An individual consulting for the village who is trained in
the art and science of planting, caring for and maintaining individual trees,
usually having certification from the International Society of Arboriculture
(ISA), the National Arborist Association (NAA) or the American Society of
Consulting Arborists (ASCA) or comparable training.
VILLAGE PARKWAY PLAN: The plan developed by the village, as amended from time
to time, for use in identifying tree species suitable for parkway planting.
(Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-4: TREE REMOVAL PERMIT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except in case of a tree emergency, it is unlawful for
any person to remove or damage any protected tree from any property in the
village without first obtaining a tree removal permit from the village. An
owner shall be held responsible for violating this section if such owner
knowingly authorizes anyone to remove or damage any protected tree on such
owner's property. If a protected tree is removed from property without a tree
removal permit, the owner of such property shall be required to obtain a tree
removal permit retroactively.
   B.   Tree Emergency: If a tree emergency occurs, it shall be lawful to
remove a protected tree, to the extent necessary to avoid immediate danger or
hazard, without first obtaining a tree removal permit; provided that within
five (5) days after taking any such action, the owner of the property shall
complete relevant portions of the tree permit application describing the tree
emergency and the actions taken. If the village, upon review of the tree permit
application, concurs that the actions were warranted, no further action under
these regulations shall be necessary, but if the village determines that no
genuine tree emergency existed to justify the cutting or removal of the
protected tree(s), then such actions shall be deemed a violation of these
regulations.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit Application: The owner of the property on which the
protected tree is located shall submit an application for a tree removal
permit. Each application shall be on forms provided by the village and shall
include the following:
      1.   Name and address of the owner;
      2.   Name, address, telephone number and facsimile number of contractor
or other person responsible for tree removal;
      3.   A general description of all protected trees to be removed,
including species, size, condition and location on the property;
      4.   A written statement indicating the reason for the removal;
      5.   An application review fee in the amount established in the annual
fee schedule.
   D.   Standards For Issuing Tree Removal Permit: The village shall issue a
tree removal permit if the removal is consistent with the stated intent and
purpose of these regulations. Grounds for removal of a protected tree may
include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The protected tree must be removed because it is dead, dying or
diseased;
      2.   A tree emergency occurs or the protected tree is weakened by
disease, age, fire, storm or other natural causes such that it is likely to die
or become diseased;
      3.   The protected tree constitutes a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular
traffic;
      4.   The protected tree constitutes a hazard to a building or utilities;
or
      5.   Removal of the protected tree is consistent with national standards
or will enhance the health of remaining trees in the immediate vicinity.
If upon review of the application, the village determines that one or more of
the grounds for tree removal permit are present, the village shall issue the
tree removal permit; otherwise, the village may condition the approval of the
tree removal permit by requiring the applicant to implement the replacement of
the protected trees for which removal is sought or has already taken place,
pursuant to a tree replacement plan, and in such case the village may direct
the applicant to submit a tree replacement plan. A tree removal permit or tree
replacement plan, if required by the village, shall contain conditions
describing steps to be taken to protect other trees in the vicinity, or may
require, when the circumstances warrant, a complete tree protection plan. The
charges for tree removal permits shall be as set forth in the annual fee
schedule and may include amounts necessary to defray the fees of the building
commissioner or village arborist for their review of the removal application.
   E.   Removal Of Trees: The owner shall cause the protected trees identified
in a tree removal permit to be removed in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in such permit, including within the time period specified
for removal. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-5: TREE REPLACEMENT PLANS:
   A.   Tree Replacement Rates: When replacement of protected trees is required
as a condition of obtaining a tree removal permit, the owner of the property
shall cause a tree replacement plan to be prepared to indicate the size,
species and proposed location of the replacement trees. It is recommended but
not required that replacement trees shall be chosen from the species groups A
and B as found in the "Species Ratings And Appraisal Factors For Illinois",
prepared by the Illinois Arborist Association, as modified and attached as
appendix A of this chapter. The village may require that a tree survey of all
or part of the property be prepared to support the replacement plan. If more
than fifteen percent (15%) of the critical root zone of any protected tree will
be damaged as result of proposed construction on an owner's property, then
notwithstanding the intent of the owner to preserve such protected tree, it
shall nevertheless be the duty of such owner to provide for the replacement of
protected tree in the tree replacement plan. Except as provided otherwise in
this chapter, the standard rate of replacement of protected trees is as
follows: The sum of the caliper of all replacement trees shall be equal to
twice the total amount of inches of dbh of protected trees being removed. (Ord.
2009-18, 11-9-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-04, 9-9-2013)
   B.   Adjustment To Replacement Rates:
      1.   The village may adjust the tree replacement rate, if the village
determines:
         a.   That replacing trees at the full replacement rate would result in
the unreasonable crowding of trees upon the lot or would not otherwise be
consistent with national standards, or
         b.   After taking into account any extenuating circumstances, undue
hardships would result from the strict application of the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   If the village adjusts the tree replacement rate, then:
         a.   The owner will modify the tree replacement plan to replace trees
at the highest practical replacement rate under the circumstances;
         b.   The village may require the planting of one or more parkway trees
as a substitute for trees that were to have been planted at the required
replacement rate, provided that the village arborist determines that a street
tree void exists in the public parkway or sidewalk area immediately adjacent to
the property (and in such event the species, number and location of parkway
trees accepted as a substitute shall be based on the village parkway plan); and
         c.   The owner shall pay a fee in lieu of replacement on each one inch
(1") in caliper of replacement trees that are not being replaced, at the rate
set forth in the annual fee schedule.
   C.   Size Of Replacement Trees: The trunk size of replacement trees shall be
a minimum of two and one-half inches (21/2") (except that oak trees may be 13/
4 inches), with the trunk size of trees up to and including four inches (4") in
caliper being measured at a point six inches (6") above the ground, and with
trees that are greater than four inches (4") in caliper being measured at a
point twelve inches (12") above the ground.
   D.   Tree Deposit: If a tree replacement plan is required pursuant to this
chapter, the property owner shall pay a deposit to the village in an amount
equal to the fee in lieu of replacement that would be due if no planting were
to occur. The deposit shall be due prior to tree removal or within fifteen (15)
calendar days after any unauthorized tree removal. Upon determining that the
number of replacement trees required under this section have been planted, the
village shall refund the tree deposit; provided that, the amount of the refund
shall be limited to that portion of the tree deposit that pertains to the
number of trees that were actually planted, including trees planted to fill a
tree void on the public parkway or sidewalk area, and the balance remaining
shall be retained as the fee in lieu of replacement. All monies paid to and
retained by the village as fee in lieu of replacement shall be transferred to
the village's general fund and credited to a capital account for forestry
expenditures.
   E.   Warranties: At the time of replacement of the trees, the owners shall
provide to the village a copy of a written guaranty from the vendor of the tree
to the owner that the tree will be replaced if the tree dies or becomes
diseased within one year after installation of the tree.
   F.   Standards For Approval Of Tree Replacement Plan: Property owners may
discuss alternative layouts and present the reasons why the literal provisions
of this chapter may cause hardship for their property. The intent of this
chapter is to establish standards for development and redevelopment within the
village and to preserve trees as an important public resource enhancing the
village's natural character and heritage. However, it is acknowledged, that in
order to obtain the very best development plan, latitude from these provisions
can be evaluated in consideration of plans with unique site design or
properties with physical limitations inhibiting tree preservation. In
considering the adequacy of any tree replacement plan and relaxation of the
replanting requirements described above, the village arborist shall take into
account the following factors in assessing the degree to which removal of a
protected tree will be substantially mitigated:
      1.   The size, health, species and other matters relating to the
excellence of the protected tree;
      2.   The number of protected trees for which removal is sought on the lot
in question;
      3.   The extent of impervious surface covering the lot, both before and
after the proposed removal as a result of the addition of new decks, patios,
tennis courts and other improvements constituting impervious surface;
      4.   The relative amount of remaining protected trees and other natural
wooded environment in the areas adjoining the lot in question and the degree of
natural screening, both before and after the proposed removal;
      5.   The degree to which the implementation of the tree removal plan will
encourage and promote the objectives of this chapter in a manner which is
proportionate to the loss resulting from the proposed removal, after
considering the entirety of development on the lot which has occurred and is
proposed to occur. A tree replacement plan shall be approved only in the event
the village finds that all reasonable efforts have been undertaken by the owner
to preserve existing protected trees.
   G.   Completing Tree Replacement: An owner required to plant replacement
trees as a condition of a tree removal permit shall plant the replacement trees
in accordance with the owner's tree replacement plan and within six (6) months
of the date of issuance of the tree removal permit. An extension of time may be
granted by the village upon request, provided, however that no such extension
shall exceed twelve (12) months from the original date of issuance of the
permit. However, when a tree removal permit is issued in connection with
projects involving excavation, earthmoving, demolition or construction of any
structure requiring a building permit, the replanting schedule shall be
coordinated with the approved construction schedule. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-6: TREE PROTECTION PLANS:
   A.   Tree Protection Plan Required: When a tree removal permit is sought in
connection with projects involving excavation, earthmoving, demolition or
construction of any structure requiring a building permit, the applications for
building permit (or site preparation permit if applicable) and tree removal
permit shall be considered together and shall be accompanied by a tree
protection plan and tree replacement plan. No tree removal shall take place
before the issuance of a tree removal permit. The village shall not issue any
tree removal permit in connection with a building permit (or site preparation
permit) before the village has approved the tree protection plan and tree
replacement plan.
   B.   Contents Of Tree Protection Plan: All tree protection plans shall
accurately include or show the following:
      1.   A tree survey plan that has the engineering plans (grading,
utilities) as the base, showing the location, species, dbh and critical root
zones of all protected trees on the subject property, adjacent rights of way,
and all properties within fifteen feet (15') of the lot lines. The survey shall
distinguish among trees to be preserved, transplanted or removed. Groups of
trees that are less than three inches (3") apart may be designated by clumps,
provided that all protected trees must be individually depicted, but the owner
may exclude areas of the site from the tree survey if the village determines
that the proposed construction or other activity will not impact those areas;
      2.   The location and type of protective fencing to be placed on the lot
and adjacent rights of way;
      3.   The types and locations of protection to be provided to minimize
damage to tree roots in critical root zone areas, such as wood chips and
exterior plywood;
      4.   A description of other required tree preservation procedures, such
as root pruning, crown pruning, and the like;
      5.   The location, shape, and spatial arrangement of all temporary and
permanent driveways, parking areas, and temporary material storage sites and
accessways;
      6.   The location of any new utility services, including water, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, gas, electric, telephone, and cable television or any
modification to existing utility services, that may impact existing private or
public trees;
      7.   If a grading plan is required by some other provision of this code,
the tree protection plan shall also depict the existing and proposed grading of
the development area, showing elevations with contour lines at one foot (1')
intervals;
      8.   A program of watering and maintenance to ensure that the new
plantings will become established; and
      9.   The village may require the applicant to provide any additional
information deemed necessary to determine whether the tree protection plan
complies with the requirements and the stated policy and purpose of this
chapter.
   C.   Building Permits Subject To Tree Preservation Policy: To promote the
policy of this chapter, approval of an application for a building permit
involving tree removal activity shall be granted only if the village finds that
all reasonable efforts have been undertaken in the architectural layout and
design of the proposed development, including minimizing grade changes, to
preserve existing trees and to otherwise enhance the aesthetic appearance of
the development by the incorporation of trees in the design process. Relocation
or replacement of trees may be required as a condition of approval in
accordance with the criteria set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Required Tree Protection Measures During Construction: The village may
require that the tree protection plan include one or more of the following tree
protection procedures and how long the procedures must remain in effect.
      1.   Protective Fencing: In areas where vehicular traffic and material
storage is not necessary, protective fencing shall be installed around
protected trees and critical root areas. The protective fencing and the areas
it encloses shall be subject to the following standards:
         a.   The owner and the owner's general contractor shall be jointly
responsible for requesting an inspection of the protective fencing required by
the tree protection plan, and no other construction activity shall be permitted
unless and until the building commissioner has inspected and approved the
protective fencing.
         b.   The protective fencing shall not be moved or removed without the
prior inspection and written approval of the building commissioner.
         c.   All protective fencing shall be wire mesh or welded wire fencing
six feet (6') high with steel or wooden posts installed and spaced no more than
eight feet (8') apart and securely anchored.
         d.   The protective fencing shall extend to the drip line of the tree,
but in no case shall fencing be less than a radius of ten feet (10') from
protected trees with a dbh of up to eighteen inches (18"), and no less than a
radius of fifteen feet (15') from trees with a dbh of more than eighteen inches
(18").
         e.   Protective fencing must be properly maintained in an erect
position at all times, as approved by the building commissioner. During
construction and until completion, the area within the fencing shall be a no
use area, in which all construction activities such as the movement and
placement of equipment or material, and the storage of spoils is prohibited;
provided that, nothing herein shall relieve the owner of the responsibility to
keep the construction site, including the no use area, free from litter and
overgrowth.
      2.   Protection Of Tree Limbs, Tree Trunks And Critical Root Zones: Tree
limbs, tree trunks and critical root zones shall be protected in areas where
vehicular traffic, material storage or similar activity is necessary. Examples
of such protection include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Tree branch pruning by a trained arborist to minimize damage
prior to construction activity caused by heavy equipment or vehicular traffic;
         b.   Root pruning by a trained arborist prior to excavation
activities, with the root pruning at a depth of eighteen (18) to twenty four
inches (24") below grade and located twelve inches (12") behind the excavation
line;
         c.   Bridging to minimize compaction of tree roots in critical root
zones, which shall consist of, but not be limited to, applying eight inches
(8") of wood chips in the critical root zone or covering the critical root zone
with sheets of exterior plywood that is at least three-fourths inch (3/4")
thick; and
         d.   Protecting tree trunks with wood planks, which shall measure two
feet by four feet (2' x 4'), two feet by six feet (2' x 6'), or one foot by six
feet (1' x 6'), shall be erected vertically and continuously around the tree
trunk, and shall be fastened in place with metal wires or banding.
      3.   Underground Utilities: Where the only available route for
underground utilities runs through a critical root zone, all such utilities
shall be installed by auguring rather than by open trench methods.
         a.   Commencement of auguring shall begin at a distance from the
tree's base of at least one foot (1') for every one inch (1") of dbh, up to a
maximum distance of twenty feet (20') from the tree's base. The same minimum
distance shall also apply to the auguring exit.
         b.   The auguring shall be done at least twenty four inches (24")
below the soil surface.
      4.   Inspection: The owner and the owner's general contractor shall be
jointly responsible for requesting an inspection of underground utility work,
and no other construction activity shall be permitted unless and until the
building commissioner has inspected and approved such work.
      5.   Grade Changes: Grade changes within the drip line of a protected
tree, such as filling or lowering, are prohibited unless approved by the
building commissioner.
      6.   Building Location: In addition to complying with the various yard
setback requirements of the zoning ordinance, all buildings and other
structures shall be located on a lot or parcel of land so as to minimize damage
to and/or removal of protected trees.
   E.   Tree Protection Procedures Following Construction: In order to maximize
the long term survivability and growth of protected trees on a construction
site, the village may require postconstruction measures to be undertaken on a
construction site prior to final inspection or closeout of a building permit.
The measures to be taken may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Root aeration to remediate soil compaction around the root systems
of protected trees. This work may only be performed by a trained arborist.
      2.   Fertilization, to provide existing protected tree(s) with nutrients
and trace elements to promote healthy growth. Fertilization may be accomplished
by root injection feeding, spraying, or topical application, and shall not
apply to newly planted trees.
      3.   Pruning or trimming of protected trees in accordance with national
standards to promote healthy growth and remove diseased or dead branches.
Pruning undertaken pursuant to this section shall be performed by a trained
arborist.
      4.   Mulching, to provide a protective, moisture retaining layer around
the base of a tree, to help assure healthy growth.
      5.   Any additional measures deemed necessary by the village to assure
the continued health of protected trees on the subject property. (Ord. 2009-18,
11-9-2009)
4-6-7: INTERPRETATION; APPEALS:
When necessary or useful to implant the provisions of this chapter, the village
may obtain and rely upon the recommendations of the village arborist. An owner
may appeal in writing to the village board of any decision made by the agents
or employees of the village under the provisions of this chapter within thirty
(30) days of such decision being rendered. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-8: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation,
and a separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
protected tree unlawfully removed or not replaced in violation of this chapter,
and a separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
day that such violation exists. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009)
4-6-9: APPENDICES:
   APPENDIX A - LIST OF PREFERRED TREES
Species Group A
Species Group A
Acer nigrum                Black maple                 
Acer saccharum             Sugar maple                (species) (improved
                                                    cultivars)

Celtis occidentalis        Common hackberry            
Corylus colurna            Turkish filbert             
Crataegus crus-galli       Cockspur hawthorn           
Gleditsia triacanthos f.   Thornless honey locust      
inermis
Gymnocladus dioicus        Kentucky coffeetree        (male)
Malus spp.                 Crabapple                  (superior cultivars)
Pseudotsuga menziesii      Douglas fir                 
Pyrus calleryana           Callery pear               (superior cultivars)
Quercus alba               White oak                   
Quercus bicolor            Swamp white oak             
Quercus macrocarpa         Bur oak                     
Quercus muehlenbergii      Chinquapin oak              
Taxodium distichum         Bald cypress                
Thuja occidentalis         Eastern white cedar         
Tilia x euchlora 'Redmond' Redmond linden              
Species Group B
Acer campestre             Hedge maple                 
Acer ginnala               Amur maple                  
Acer platanoides           Norway maple               (improved cultivars)
Acer platanoides           Norway maple               (species)
Acer rubrum                Red maple                  (improved cultivars)
Acer rubrum                Red maple                  (species)
Aesculus glabra            Ohio buckeye                
Aesculus hippocastanum     Horse chestnut              
Amelanchier                Serviceberry                
Betula nigra               River birch                 
Carpinus caroliniana       American hornbeam          (blue beech)
Carya ovata                Shagbark hickory            
Cercis canadensis          Redbud                      
Cornus alternifolia        Pagoda dogwood              
Crataegus phaenopyrum      Washington hawthorn         
Fagus grandifolia          American beech              
Fagus sylvatica            European beech              
Ginkgo biloba              Ginkgo                     (improved cultivars)
Ginkgo biloba              Ginkgo                     (species)
Gymnocladus dioicus        Kentucky coffeetree        (female)
Juniperus virginiana       Eastern red cedar           
Liriodendron tulipifera    Tulip tree                  
Magnolia x soulangiana     Saucer magnolia             
Malus spp.                 Crabapple                  (inferior cultivars)
Picea abies                Norway spruce               
Picea glauca               White spruce                
Picea pungens              Colorado blue spruce        
Pinus strobus              Eastern white pine          
Platanus x acerifolia      London planetree            
Prunus maackii             Amur chokecherry            
Pyrus calleryana           Callery pear               (inferior cultivars)
Quercus ellipsoidalis      Hill's oak                  
Quercus palustris          Pin oak                     
Quercus prinus             Chestnut oak                
Quercus robur              English oak                 
Quercus rubra              Red oak                     
Syringa pekinensis         Peking lilac                
Syringa reticulata         Japanese tree lilac         
Tilia americana            American linden (basswood)  
Tilia cordata              Little leaf linden          
Ulmus                      Elm hybrid                  
Ulmus parvifolia           Chinese elm                 
 
(Ord. 2009-18, 11-9-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-04, 9-9-2013)
CHAPTER 7
OVERLAND DRAINAGE
SECTION:
4-7-1:   Unlawful Conditions
4-7-2:   Interruption; Appeals
4-7-3:   Penalty
4-7-1: UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, occupies or controls any
premises in the village to perform or authorize to be performed any grading,
filling or excavating activity on such premises, in a manner that increases the
grade of such premises or alters overland drainage routes resulting in an
impact on neighboring properties, including impeding, redirecting or increasing
the volume of the natural flow of surface stormwater from or onto adjoining
property.
   B.   Any resident person desiring to obtain review of any grading, filling
or excavating activity that is not authorized by a building permit shall apply
for a site development permit, on forms provided by the village. A resident
implementing work in accordance with a site development permit will be presumed
in compliance with this chapter. However, this chapter does not create
liability on the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
   C.   The village engineer may require that the applicant submit plans and
specifications for drainage plans, certified by a professional engineer and
indicating the direction of existing and proposed stormwater flow on the site
and other information as necessary to verify that the proposed site work will
not impede or materially alter the natural flow of surface stormwater on or
along the lot. Village fees for review and issuance of a site development
permit shall be as set forth from time to time in the village fee schedule.
(Ord. 2020-07, 9-14-2020)
4-7-2: INTERPRETATION; APPEALS:
When necessary or useful to implement the provisions of this chapter, the
village may obtain and rely upon the recommendations of the village engineer.
An owner may appeal in writing to the village board of any decision made by the
agents or employees of the village under the provisions of this chapter within
thirty (30) days of such decision being rendered.
(Ord. 2020-07, 9-14-2020)
4-7-3: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of up to $750 for each such violation, and a separate and distinct
violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each day that such violation
exists.
(Ord. 2020-07, 9-14-2020)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created; Members
5-1-2: Qualifications
5-1-3: Oath Of Office; Bond
5-1-4: Chief Of Police
5-1-5: Powers, Duties And Conduct Of Department Members
5-1-6: Application Of Certain State Law Provisions
5-1-7: Police Manual
5-1-8: Part Time Police Officers
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERS:
There is hereby created a police department as an administrative office of the
village. The police department shall consist of a chief of police and such
number of captains, lieutenants, sergeants, patrol officers, special police
officers and watch officers as may be provided from time to time by the village
board of trustees. The chief of police and all other members of the department
shall be employees of the village. (Ord., 6-12-1950; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
The chief of police shall be considered a member of the police department. The
police department shall consist of such other members as the chief of police
shall deem advisable and necessary. In case of emergencies, such as in times of
peril, danger, riot or pestilence or apprehension thereof, the village
president may appoint special members to the police department to act during
any such emergency. (Ord., 6-12-1950; amd. 1989 Code)
5-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Department members shall be citizens of the United States, of not less than
twenty one (21) years of age and, in the judgment of the chief of police,
physically and mentally qualified to perform the duties for which employed.
(Ord., 6-12-1950)
5-1-3: OATH OF OFFICE; BOND:
Upon entering upon his duties, each member of the police department shall take
and subscribe to the oath of office prescribed by law, but no member shall be
required to execute a bond unless he is entrusted with property either
belonging to or entrusted to the care of the village. (Ord., 6-12-1950)
5-1-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Salary: The chief of police shall be appointed by
the village president, with the approval of the village board of trustees, and
shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The village board of trustees shall
annually fix the salary of the chief of police in the annual appropriation
ordinance.
   B.   Powers And Duties: Under the general supervision of the village
president, the chief of police shall be in direct charge and responsible for
the efficient operation of the police department with the power to promulgate
such rules and regulations for the conduct of the department and for the
guidance of the members thereof as he shall deem necessary and advisable.
Subject to the final approval of the village board of trustees, the chief of
police is hereby granted the power to employ such members of the police
department of the village as he deems necessary and advisable. Subject to the
final approval of the village president, the chief of police is hereby granted
the power to discipline, suspend without pay or discharge any member of the
department. (Ord., 6-12-1950; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Exercise Of Authority: All actions of the police department shall be
within the written policy set forth by the village board of trustees. (Ord., 6-
8-1992)
5-1-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND CONDUCT OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
Members of the police department shall preserve order, prevent infractions of
the law, enforce all the ordinances of the village and arrest violators of the
law and such ordinances. Each member of the police department shall at all
times conduct himself in a proper and law abiding manner, avoid the use of
unnecessary force or argument in the discharge of his duties and obey and
observe the rules and regulations of the police department and the lawful
orders and directions of the village officials and the chief of police. Every
member of the police department shall have the common law and statutory powers
of constables for the purpose of serving warrants and when called upon to do so
shall appear as a witness in any suit in which the village, the county or the
state is a party without fee. (Ord., 6-12-1950)
5-1-6: APPLICATION OF CERTAIN STATE LAW PROVISIONS:
The common and statutory law with respect to: a) the village president, village
trustees and every member of the police department being conservators of the
peace 1 ; b) the duty of every citizen to assist the police in the execution of
their duties 2 ; c) resisting an officer of the law 3 ; and d) impersonating an
officer of the law 4  shall apply with the same force and effect within the
corporate limits of the village as if set forth in full in this chapter. (Ord.,
6-12-1950)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25.
2 2. 725 ILCS 5/107-8.
3 1. 720 ILCS 5/31-1.
4 2. 720 ILCS 5/17-2.
5-1-7: POLICE MANUAL:
The police manual of the village, having been developed specifically for the
village with outside expertise in conjunction with a blue ribbon committee of
former village officials, and having been reviewed by the Golf police chief and
the Golf police department, and having been reviewed by the village trustees
and the village president, is duly approved and adopted as the official manual
of the police department of the village. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
5-1-8: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Salary: Part time police officers may be appointed
by the village president, with the approval of the village board of trustees,
and shall serve at the pleasure of the village board. Part time police officers
shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age and receive such hourly
compensation for their services as shall be determined by the village board.
Except as otherwise provided herein, part time police officers shall be subject
to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-21 and 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 705/8.2. (Ord. 98-4, 7-13-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties: Part time police officers shall at all times during
the performance of their duties be subject to the direction and control of the
chief of police. Part time police officers shall be conservators of the peace
and shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are violating any village ordinance or any
criminal law of the state;
      2.   To commit arrested persons for examination;
      3.   To direct traffic and to assist in traffic control;
      4.   To keep peace in all large gatherings in and about the village;
      5.   To aid in the control of natural or manmade disasters and in case of
civil disorder, and to assist in cases of riot, disaster and emergency control
as directed by the chief of police; and
      6.   To perform such other related duties as directed by the chief of
police or the village board.
   C.   Firearms: Part time police officers shall not carry firearms except
with the permission of the chief of police and while in the performance of
their duties in uniform. If authorized by the chief of police, part time police
officers may carry their firearm while actively pursuing training if either of
the following criteria have been satisfied:
      1.   Completion of the basic police training course; or
      2.   Completion of not less than twenty four (24) hours of the state
mandated firearms training course as provided in the firearms training for
peace officers act 1 . (Ord. 98-4, 7-13-1998)
   D.   Qualifications: All part time police officers in the village shall
have, or shall be eligible to obtain within the time limits required by the
Illinois law enforcement training standards board, the training certificate or
license to practice police work or credentials that may be established as
mandated by section 8.2(a) of the Illinois police training act 2  and the rules
and requirements of the Illinois law enforcement training standards board. Any
part time police officer failing to meet such requirements or who fails to
obtain a waiver of certification from the Illinois law enforcement training and
standards board, shall be ineligible for appointment and shall be removed from
office. In addition, all part time police officers shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      3.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      4.   Possess no felony convictions.
      5.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   E.   Other Provisions Applicable To Part Time Officers:
      1.   All part time police officers shall comply with all applicable
general orders promulgated from time to time by the police chief for members of
the police department.
      2.   The village may employ part time police officers from time to time
but part time police officers shall not work as police officers in the village
more than one thousand five hundred sixty (1,560) hours in any calendar year.
The police chief shall require part time officers to acknowledge such
limitation as a condition of employment.
      3.   A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a
full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general
orders of the police department. Part time police officers shall not be
assigned to supervise or direct full time police officers.
      4.   All part time police officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the police chief, shall serve at the discretion of the village,
shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be removed by
the village president at any time.
      5.   Part time police officers who have not attended and successfully
completed a state mandated firearms training course shall be scheduled for
attendance at the earliest practicable time. While attending prescribed local
training, part time police officers shall be paid their regular hourly rate of
pay for each hour of training attended. (Ord. 2012-04, 8-13-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 710/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-2: Firearms; Fireworks
5-2-3: Unlawful Possession, Sale, Transfer Or Use Of Cannabis
5-2-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
All persons who shall breach the peace or any person who should aid or assist
therein by any means, including:
   A.   The commission of any acts which do or tend to annoy, disturb, obstruct
or offend others;
   B.   Loitering or being about without apparent reason or congregating or
assembling with others and refusing to move on when so ordered by the police;
   C.   Carrying or having possession of any firearms, knives or other
dangerous weapons;
   D.   Assaulting, challenging or otherwise interfering with any person or
committing any trespass to the property of any person;
shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct and upon conviction of said charge
shall be fined in accordance with a class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 4-13-1931; amd. 1989 Code)
5-2-2: FIREARMS; FIREWORKS:
   A.   Discharge Of Firearms: No person shall fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, fowling piece or other firearm within the limits of the village. (Ord.,
4-13-1931)
   B.   Discharge Of Fireworks: No person shall fire, explode or set off any
squib, crackers or other thing containing powder or other explosive substance
except on land zoned PCC property district 1  if the person has been so
authorized by the owner thereof. (Ord. 68-6, 7-31-1968; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any one of the offenses set
out in this section shall be subject to a class B penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
5-2-3: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION, SALE, TRANSFER OR USE OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following words, as
used herein, shall be construed to have the meaning herein ascribed thereto:
 
                                      Has the meaning ascribed to it in the
CANNABIS:                             Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act as if
                                      that definition were incorporated herein.
                                      A product derived from cannabis that is
                                      produced by extracting cannabinoids,
                                      including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
                                      from the plant through the use of
                                      propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive
                                      oil or other typical cooking fats; water,
CANNABIS CONCENTRATE:                 ice, or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2,
                                      ethanol, or isopropanol and with the
                                      intended use of smoking or making a
                                      cannabis-infused product. The use of any
                                      other solvent is expressly prohibited
                                      unless and until it is approved by the
                                      State of Illinois Department of
                                      Agriculture.
                                      Marijuana, hashish, and other substances
                                      that are identified as including any
                                      parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and
                                      including derivatives or subspecies, such
                                      as indica, of all strains of cannabis;
CANNABIS FLOWER:                      including raw kief, leaves, and buds, but
                                      not resin that has been extracted from
                                      any part of such plant; nor any compound,
                                      manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
                                      or preparation of such plant, its seeds,
                                      or resin.
                                      A beverage, food, oil, ointment,
                                      tincture, topical formulation, or another
CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT:             product containing cannabis or cannabis
                                      concentrate that is not intended to be
                                      smoked.
                                      The "Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act"
                                      enacted by the State of Illinois as 410
                                      ILCS 705/1, et seq., and as may be
CANNABIS REGULATION AND TAX ACT:      amended from time to time, and all State
                                      of Illinois rules and regulations
                                      promulgated thereunder or related
                                      thereto.
                                      The "Compassionate Use of Medical
                                      Cannabis Program Act" enacted by the
COMPASSIONATE USE OF MEDICAL CANNABIS State of Illinois as 410 ILCS 130/1 et
PROGRAM ACT:                          seq., and as may be amended from time to
                                      time, and all State of Illinois rules and
                                      regulations promulgated thereunder or
                                      related thereto.
 
   B.   Adoption of cannabis state law by reference: Each and every part of the
Cannabis Control and Regulation Act and rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder, which relate in any manner to the sale of cannabis, is hereby
adopted by this reference and made a part of this Section, to the same extent
and with the same legal effect as if fully set forth in this section except for
all provisions of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act that require specific
local approval to take effect, if such approval has not occurred. Where this
Section conflicts with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and where the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act specifically preempts home rule authority, the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act shall control. Where the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act does not specifically preempt home rule authority, this Section
shall control. Any violation of such applicable and adopted provisions of such
Act shall be deemed a violation of this Section and be subject to penalties
provided in this Section.
   C.   Unlawful possession of cannabis: No person shall possess an amount of
cannabis greater than the following within the village limits of the Village of
Golf:
      1.   Thirty (30) grams of cannabis flower;
      2.   No more than five hundred (500) milligrams of THC contained in
cannabis-infused product; or
      3.   Five (5) grams of cannabis concentrate.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, registered qualifying patients may possess
cannabis produced by cannabis plants grown from home cultivation as allowed
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, provided any
amount of cannabis produced in excess of 30 grams of raw cannabis or its
equivalent must remain secured within the residence or residential property in
which it was grown.
   D.   Purchase or, possession of cannabis by persons less than twenty-one
(21) years old: No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall
purchase, attempt to purchase, accept delivery, accept a gift of, grow, or have
possession of or consume cannabis, except where authorized by the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act or by the Community College Cannabis
Vocational Pilot Program, as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   E.   Sale or transfer of cannabis to persons less than twenty-one (21) years
old: No person shall sell, give or deliver cannabis to any person under the age
of twenty-one (21), or allow a person under 21 years of age to purchase,
possess, use, process, transport, grow, or consume cannabis, except where
authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act. No person
shall order, purchase, or by any manner directly or indirectly obtain cannabis
for any person under the age of twenty-one (21), except where authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act. No person may transfer
cannabis to any person contrary to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   F.   Parental responsibility: No parent or guardian shall permit his or her
residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any motor
vehicle under his or her control to be used by a person under the age of 21, in
a manner that constitutes a violation of this subsection. A parent or guardian
is deemed to have knowingly permitted a violation of this subsection, if he or
she authorizes or permits consumption of cannabis by underage invitees.
   G.   Locations where cannabis use prohibited: No person may smoke cannabis
in any place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act. No
person may use cannabis:
      1.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
childcare or other similar social service care on the premises;
      2.   In any public place; or
      3.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years of
age who is not a registered qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   H.   Cannabis in motor vehicles: No person shall transport, carry, possess
or have any cannabis within the passenger area of any motor vehicle unless the
cannabis is in a reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably
inaccessible while the vehicle is moving. This prohibition does not apply to a
motor vehicle open to the public (i.e., public transportation). No person may
use or in any way ingest cannabis in a motor vehicle.
   I.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a class B penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 2015-07, 7-14-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-2020)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: One-Way Streets
5-3-2: Through Streets; Stop Intersections
5-3-2-1: Operation Of Vehicles At Stop Intersections
5-3-2-2: Designation Of Stop Intersections
5-3-2-3: Signs Posted
5-3-2-4: Local Traffic Only Designation
5-3-2-5: Penalty
5-3-3: Speed Limits
5-3-4: Vehicle Weight Limit; Axle Limit; Special Permits
5-3-5: Authority To Control Traffic Within The Village
5-3-6: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
5-3-7: Compliance Citations
5-3-1: ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicles: No driver of a motor vehicle shall operate said
vehicle on any public street which is designated as a one-way street except in
the direction so designated or posted.
   B.   Designation Of One-Way Streets: The following are legally designated
one-way streets: Blossom Lane from the south curb of Briar Road to the north
curb of Park Lane. Vehicular traffic shall move on Blossom Lane one way, in a
southerly direction only, from the south curb of Briar Road to the north curb
of Park Lane.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be subject to
a class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 12-13-1971; amd. 1989 Code)
5-3-2: THROUGH STREETS; STOP INTERSECTIONS:
5-3-2-1: OPERATION OF VEHICLES AT STOP INTERSECTIONS:
Vehicles shall come to a complete stop upon entering or coming to any street or
highway on which is displayed a sign with the letters "STOP". After coming to a
complete stop and observing a clear street, the vehicle may proceed. (Ord., 8-
11-1959; amd. Ord., 5-11-1987)
5-3-2-2: DESIGNATION OF STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   The following intersections are hereby designated as stop
intersections:
 
Briar Road and Dover Street        All vehicles shall make a stop before
                                   entering Briar Road from Dover Street.
Briar Road and Highland Place      All vehicles shall make a stop before
                                   entering Briar Road from Highland Place.
Orchard Lane and Overlook Drive    All vehicles shall make a stop before
                                   entering Overlook Drive from Orchard Lane.
Park Lane and Overlook Drive       All vehicles shall make a stop before
                                   entering Overlook Drive from Park Lane.
Railroad Avenue and Briar Road     All vehicles shall make a stop before
                                   entering Briar Road from Railroad Avenue.
West Briar Road and Overlook Drive All vehicles shall make a stop before
                                   entering Overlook Drive from Briar Road.
 
(Ord., 8-11-1959; amd. Ord., 4-12-1971; Ord., 5-11-1987; 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
   B.   The following intersections are hereby designated as three-way stops
and all vehicles shall make a stop before entering or crossing said
intersections from any direction:
Park Lane and Blossom Lane
Park Lane and Clyde Street
(Ord., 5-11-1987)
   C.   The following intersections are hereby designated as four-way stops and
all vehicles shall make a stop before entering or crossing said intersections
from any direction:
Briar Road and Clyde Street
   Clyde Street and Overlook Drive
East Briar Road and Overlook Drive
   (Ord., 8-11-1959; amd. Ord., 5-11-1987; 2003 Code)
5-3-2-3: SIGNS POSTED:
The chief of police shall cause appropriate signs to be placed and maintained
on each and every street, excluding a through street, at or near the property
line of the through street; such signs shall be placed in a conspicuous
position at or near the property line of the through street and shall bear the
word "STOP" in letters of such size as to be clearly legible from a distance of
at least one hundred feet (100') along the street intersecting the through
street. The chief of police shall also cause appropriate signs to be placed and
maintained at the stop intersections designated in this section
5-3-2. (Ord., 8-11-1959)
5-3-2-4: LOCAL TRAFFIC ONLY DESIGNATION:
Overlook Drive is legally designated for local traffic only. For purposes of
this section, "local traffic" shall mean motor vehicles that travel over
Overlook Drive to arrive at a property located in the village or in residential
neighborhoods of the village of Glenview located north of Overlook Drive, such
as when residents are returning home or when local deliveries are made within
such areas. It shall be unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle to turn
onto Overlook Drive from Waukegan Road or onto Overlook Drive from Golf Road
unless the ensuing use of Overlook Drive qualifies as local traffic. The chief
of police shall cause appropriate signs to be placed and maintained on Overlook
Drive near its intersection with Waukegan Road and near its intersection with
Golf Road; such signs shall be placed in a conspicuous position at or near the
property line of Overlook Drive right of way and shall bear the words "LOCAL
TRAFFIC ONLY" in letters of such size and otherwise of such design as will
generally be consistent with regulatory signs as described in the "Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD). (Ord. 09-02, 6-8-2009)
5-3-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
5-3-2 shall be subject to a class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 8-11-1959; amd. Ord., 4-12-1971; 1989 Code; Ord. 09-
02, 6-8-2009)
5-3-3: SPEED LIMITS:
Pursuant to the authority vested in the village by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-604, it is hereby determined, upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation made by the police department, that the speed
permitted by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-601, upon the public streets
and thoroughfares in the village is more than is reasonable or sound with
respect to conditions found to exist along such streets and thoroughfares, and
it is hereby declared that the maximum speed limit upon all public streets and
highways within the village shall be twenty (20) miles per hour at all times
unless otherwise posted.
Areas where the speed limits differ are:
 
Logan Terrace 10 miles per hour
 
Any person violating this section shall be subject to a class A penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 3-5-1962; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
5-3-4: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMIT; AXLE LIMIT; SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Weight Limitation: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any
street in the village when the gross weight of such vehicle exceeds five (5)
tons (10,000 pounds) per axle, except that the police chief or his designee may
authorize a temporary permit for the purpose of making a delivery or picking up
a load in the village, when in his judgment the loads are of a nondivisible
nature and delivery by other means is not practical.
   B.   Axle Limitations: No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any
street in the village when such vehicle has more than two (2) axles, except for
the purpose of making a delivery or picking up a load in the village. The
police chief or his designee may waive this axle limitation when an emergency
exists or other good cause is shown that observance of this limitation would be
impractical.
   C.   Application For Special Permit; Special Permit Fee:
      1.   Any person desiring to obtain a special permit authorizing the
applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles with weight
of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum limitations set forth in this section
on any street in the village shall submit an application to the police
department on forms prescribed by the police chief. The application for any
such permit shall specifically describe and identify the vehicle or vehicles
and loads to be operated or moved and the particular streets for which permit
to operate is requested, and whether such permit is requested for a single trip
or for continuous operation, and include the date(s) and hours authorized.
      2.   If the police chief or his designee determine that the loads are of
a nondivisible nature and delivery by other means is not practical, they may
issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles as described in the application, and with
such further conditions or limitations as they deem necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, including limiting or prescribing conditions
of operation of such vehicle or vehicles, when necessary to assure against
undue damage to the road foundations, surfaces or structures, or requiring that
the vehicle not be driven on the streets for more than the minimum distance
necessary for such purpose, and the permit may require such undertaking, cash
deposit, bond or other security as may be deemed necessary to compensate for
any injury to any roadway or road surface.
      3.   The village shall collect a fee as shown in the annual fee schedule
from applicants for the issuance of a special permit to operate or move a
vehicle with weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum limitations set
forth in this section.
   D.   Signs Posted: Signs posting the weight limitation of five (5) tons
(10,000 pounds) shall be located at the entrance to the village so as to be
visible to northbound traffic on Overlook Drive near Golf Road and to eastbound
traffic on Overlook Drive near the right of way of the METRA railroad.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall, on conviction
thereof, be subject to a class D penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-14-2009)
5-3-5: AUTHORITY TO CONTROL TRAFFIC WITHIN THE VILLAGE:
   A.   The village board of trustees or their lawful delegate shall place and
maintain official traffic control devices including, but not limited to,
electronic signals, signs, roadway markings, land designations and manual or
oral signals from law enforcement officers when and as required under the
village traffic ordinances or the Illinois vehicle code for the purpose of
making such ordinances or statutes effective. This authority includes, but is
not limited to, the designation of one-way streets, arterial streets, through
streets, parking and no parking areas, play streets, crosswalks, safety zones
and traffic lanes.
   B.   All rules and regulations concerning the placement and maintenance of
the traffic control devices included in subsection A of this section,
heretofore authorized by the corporate authorities or their lawful delegate
prior to the passage of this chapter, shall remain in force and effect to the
extent that they do not conflict with the rules and regulations passed pursuant
to this chapter. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
5-3-6: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, is hereby adopted in
its entirety into the village of Golf municipal code. (Ord. 9401, 2-14-1994)
5-3-7: COMPLIANCE CITATIONS:
   A.   Any person, pursuant to the issuance of a compliance citation, who is
accused of violating certain sections of the Illinois vehicle code, as adopted
in its entirety in section
5-3-6 of this chapter, may settle and compromise the claim against him by
paying to the village: (Ord. 9401, 2-14-2001)
      1.   Within ten (10) days of the time such alleged offense was committed,
the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00), and by presenting to the village proof of
compliance with the section allegedly violated; or (Ord. 9401, 2-14-1994; amd.
Ord. 02-02, 5-13-2002)
      2.   If after ten (10) days but before thirty (30) days after such
alleged offense was committed, the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00), and by
presenting to the village proof of compliance with the section allegedly
violated; or (Ord. 9703, 9-8-1997; amd. Ord. 02-02, 5-13-2002)
      3.   If after thirty (30) days after such alleged offense was committed,
the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) plus an administrative fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00), and by presenting to the village proof of compliance with the
section allegedly violated. (Ord. 9703, 9-8-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
The following violations of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, the Illinois
vehicle code, already adopted in its entirety in section
5-3-6 of this chapter, shall be subject to the procedures described herein:
5/3-112        Failure to transfer title.
5/3-401(a)     No valid registration.
5/3-404        No bill of lading or manifest/dispatch record.
5/3-411(a)     Failure to carry registration card or reciprocity permit -
               second division vehicle.
5/3-413(a,b)   Improper display of license plates.
5/3-413(f)     Operation of vehicle with expired registration plate or sticker.
5/3-416        Failure to notify the secretary of state of name/address change
               (registration).
5/3-417(a)     Failure to apply immediately for replacement registration card,
               plate or sticker.
5/3-701(1)     No valid registration - no valid plate or sticker.
5/3-701(2)     No valid registration - reciprocity, prorate, or apportionment.
5/5-201(h)     No in-transit plates.
5/5-202(e)     Failure to display "Tow Truck" plate (towed vehicle).
5/6-101        No valid driver's license (expired less than 6 months).
5/6-116        Failure to notify the secretary of state of name/address change
               (driver's license).
5/6-303        Driving with a suspended license - administrative suspensions
               for emissions control violations only.
5/11-1301      Stopped vehicle on highway.
5/11-1301.3    Parking in handicapped designated places.
5/11-1303      Prohibited parking in designated places.
5/11-1304(a,b) Placement of parked vehicles.
5/11-1401      Unattended motor vehicle left illegally.
5/11-1403(c)   Illegal handlebars on a motorcycle.
5/11-1404      Riding a motorcycle without special equipment.
5/11-1405      No passenger footrests on a motorcycle.
5/11-1406      Driver's view or driving mechanism obstructed.
5/11-1413      Depositing injurious material on the roadway.
5/11-1419.01   Failure to display Illinois motor fuel tax identification card.
5/11-1419.02   Failure to display Illinois motor fuel tax identification
               device.
5/11-1425      Stopping when traffic is obstructed.
5/11-1507(a)   Operation of bicycle without lamp and reflector.
5/11-1507(1)   Operation of motorized pedalcycle without lamp and reflector.
5/12-101(a)    Operation of vehicle with unsafe equipment.
5/12-201(a)    Driving without a lighted headlamp (motorcycle).
5/12-201(b)    Driving vehicle without two lighted headlamps and tail lamps
               when required.
5/12-201(c)    No white rear registration plate light.
5/12-202(a,b)  Insufficient clearance, identification, or side marker lamps and
               reflectors - second division vehicle.
5/12-204       Improper lamp or flag on projecting load.
5/12-205       Improper use of lamps on towing and towed vehicles.
5/12-207(a)    Improper use of more than one spot lamp.
5/12-207(b)    Improper use of more than three auxiliary driving lamps.
5/12-208(a)    No stop signal lamp or device.
5/12-209(c)    Defective backup lights.
5/12-210(a)    Failure to dim headlights/auxiliary driving lamps within 500
               feet on approach of vehicle.
5/12-210(b)    Failure to dim headlights/auxiliary driving lamps within 300
               feet of vehicle in same direction.
5/12-211(a)    Improper lighting on vehicles other than
5/12-211(b)    Improper use of more than four lighted headlamps/auxiliary
               driving lamps.
5/12-212(a)    Improper use of red light visible from front of vehicle.
5/12-212(b)    Unlawful use of flashing lights.
5/12-215       Unlawful use of oscillating, rotating, or flashing lights.
5/12-301       Use of defective brakes.
5/12-401       Unlawful use of metal studded tire.
5/12-405(d)    Use of unsafe tire.
5/12-502       Operation of vehicle without rear reflecting mirror.
5/12-503(a)    Obstructed windshield or front side windows.
5/12-503(b)    Unlawful application of tinted film to windshield or window(s)
               adjacent to driver - all vehicles manufactured after 12/31/1981.
5/12-503(c)    Obstructed view through any window by stationary or suspended
               objects(s).
5/12-503(d)    Operation of vehicle without windshield cleaning device, or with
               view obstructed by snow, ice or moisture.
5/12-503(c)    Obstructed view due to defective condition of any window.
5/12-601(a)    Operation of vehicle with defective horn.
5/12-601(b)    Unlawful possession or use of siren.
5/12-602       Operation of vehicle with defective or unlawfully modified
               exhaust system.
5/12-603(b)    Operation of vehicle without two front seat safety belts -
               vehicles of 1961 or later model years.
               Failure to wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety
5/12-603.1     belt, (driver and front seat passenger) - specifically excludes
               violations of the child restraint act.
5/12-604(a)    Operation of a vehicle with television receiver visible to
               driver.
5/12-606       Operation of tow truck without:
              (a) Identifying sign attached to each side.
              (b) Required equipment - broom, shovel, trash can, fire
              extinguisher.

              (c) Removing debris and spreading oil absorbing material on oil/
              grease deposits.

              (d) Insurance policy in cab.
5/12-607(a)    Operation of vehicle with unlawfully altered vehicle suspension
               system - body lifted in excess of three inches from chassis.
5/12-607.1(a)  Operation of first division vehicle with frame in excess of 22
               inches above ground.
5/12-607.1(b)  Operation of second division vehicle with frame in excess of
               statutory limits above ground.
               Operation of vehicle with gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of
5/12-608(a)    9,000 pounds or recreational vehicle without two bumpers;
               operation of vehicle with unlawful bumper height.
5/12-610(a)    Operation of vehicle while wearing a headset receiver.
5/12-702(a)    Operation of second division vehicle without carrying flares/
               warning devices.
5/12-702(c–g)Failure to use flares/warning devices when second division
               vehicle is disabled.
5/12-707       Overloaded school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle used for
               hire.
5/12-711       Operation of garbage truck, roll off hoist or roll on container
               without audible backing warning system.
5/12-806       Failure to cover school bus sign.
5/12-808       Operating school bus without fire extinguisher.
5/12-809       Operating school bus without first aid kit.
5/12-810       Transporting handicapped passenger(s) without restraining
               device.
5/13-111       Operating without certificate of valid safety test attached to
               windshield - second division vehicle.
5/13A-104(c)   Failure to display valid unexpired emission inspection sticker
               when required.
5/15-105       Load projecting beyond left fenders or in excess of six inches
               beyond right fenders - first division vehicle.
5/15-106       Failure to fasten loose protruding member - all vehicles.
5/15-108       Failure to plank edge of pavement for any vehicle in excess of
               8,000 pounds.
5/15-109(a)    Spilling load on highway.
5/15-109(b)    Operating loaded vehicle without securely fastened covering.
5/15-109.1     Operating second division vehicle with load falling, blowing, or
               dropping to highway.
5/15-114       Unlawful pushing of disabled vehicle.
5/18C-4104(a)  Operation without registration - intrastate or interstate.
5/18C-4604(1)  Operation without current cab card and Illinois identifier
               stamp.
5/18C-4604(3)  Use of a cab card and Illinois identifier stamp issued to
               another carrier.
5/18C-4604(4)  Failure to display or present a cab card and Illinois identifier
               stamp.
5/18C-4701(1)  Operation without trade name, license and registration number of
               carrier painted or affixed to both doors of power unit.
40/4-1         Operation of snowmobile without required:
              (A) One white headlamp.
              (B) One rear taillight.
              (C) Brake system in good mechanical condition.
              (D) Reflective material on each side of cowling.
              (E) Adequate sound suppression equipment.
               Operation of snowmobile without lighted headlamp and taillamp
40/5-1(D)      during darkness. (Ord. 9401, 2-14-1994; amd. Ord. 9703, 9-8-
               1997; 2003 Code)
 
   B.   The issuance of a compliance citation shall be a courtesy in lieu of
instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. Any compliance
citation which remains unpaid or in which the alleged violator has not appeared
within a thirty (30) day period from the date of issuance to request a court
date will be converted to a uniform traffic complaint and a court date will be
issued for the alleged offense, or the citation will be processed accordingly
for civil action. (Ord. 9401, 2-14-1994)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Parking Restrictions And Prohibitions
5-4-2: Signs Posted
5-4-3: Penalty
5-4-1: PARKING RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Parking During Business Hours: Motor vehicles, vans, buses or trailers
shall not be left parked or unattended on any street, highway, lane or public
area within the village or adjacent thereto for more than four (4) hours
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on
weekdays, Monday through Friday inclusive.
   B.   Parking Restricted And Prohibited In Specified Places: In certain areas
within the village, further restrictions shall be posted with signs designating
"No Parking", "Police Vehicles Only", "30 Minute Parking Only", "2 Hour
Parking", "U.S. Mail" or "15 Minute Parking Only", and said areas are hereby
designated as follows: (Ord., 8-11-1969)
      1.   No Parking: It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle at any time,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other vehicles or in compliance
with the direction of traffic officers or traffic signals, to stand in any of
the following places: (Ord., 6-8-1992)
         a.   In any street, road or lane at any time in such a manner as to
impede or obstruct the passage of other traffic, emergency vehicles or any
private driveway.
         b.   Within twenty feet (20') of a fire hydrant. (Ord., 8-11-1969)
         c.   In any intersection.
         d.   In a crosswalk or on a sidewalk.
         e.   At any place where official signs prohibit.
         f.   With the vehicle facing against traffic flow.
         g.   Upon a parkway between the edge of the roadway and the edge of
private property or a public sidewalk unless designated a parking area by the
village board of trustees.
         h.   Upon any planted public area so as to damage any grass, trees,
bushes or other foliage.
         i.   Within the commuter parking lot, except in designated spaces upon
the payment of the then current fee.
         j.   In any area designated for the handicapped without the display of
current authorization.
         k.   In any place, unattended, with the motor running. (Ord., 6-8-
1992)
         l.   In the following designated specific places:
All landscaped areas east of the Soo Line railroad tracks and in the driveway
or access road to the Golf railroad station; except, that attended standing
vehicles are permitted for pick up and delivery of passengers. (Ord., 8-11-
1969; amd. 1989 Code)
Blossom Lane, both sides, as posted.
Briar Road, easterly and northerly sides, from Overlook Drive south and then
easterly to approximately two hundred feet (200') west of Dover Street, as
posted.
Circular drives at the approximately west end of Park Lane, north end of
Henneberry Lane, north end of Orchard Lane and east end of Elm Circle, as
posted. (Ord., 8-11-1969)
Golf Road.
Lilac Lane, both sides, as posted. (Ord., 8-11-1969; amd. Ord., 8-11-1982; 1989
Code)
      2.   Time Limit Parking:
         a.   Two hour parking: South side of Briar Road from eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays)
from easterly line of Western Golf Association property to Dover Street, as
posted.
         b.   Thirty minute parking: South side of Briar Road in front of
Western Golf Association property from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock
(6:00) P.M., as posted.
         c.   Fifteen minute parking: From eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M., the roadway running southerly from Briar Road and along
the westerly side of the village hall and post office building for its entire
length, as posted. (Ord., 8-11-1969)
      3.   Long Term Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
cause to be parked a motor vehicle on any street in the village between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. without having
obtained permission from the village police. Such permission shall be freely
given for one day in the event of the temporary disability of a vehicle, or
repairs to a driveway, or guests visiting a resident or of other necessity
deemed reasonable by the police. (Ord., 4-14-1986)
   C.   Parking Vehicles On Private Property In Residence Districts: No
recreational vehicles, commercial vehicles or other motorized vehicles of any
kind (including, but not limited to, boats, aircraft, motorcycles, all-terrain
vehicles, and snowmobiles), regardless of size or license plate designation,
shall be parked upon any lot within the residence zoning districts of the
village, unless they are entirely contained or housed within a completely
enclosed garage or accessory structure, subject to the exceptions noted below:
      1.   Private Vehicles: Private passenger cars, sports utility vehicles,
minivans, vans designed primarily for the transportation of passengers, and
small pickup trucks may be parked upon a driveway serving a single-family
residence and need not be parked within a completely enclosed garage, provided
that the vehicle is not a commercial vehicle as defined in this subsection.
      2.   Commercial Vehicles: Commercial vehicles may park upon a driveway
serving a single-family residence only when making a delivery or rendering a
service at such property; provided that while undertaking work pursuant to a
permit, the operator of a commercial vehicle may park on private property only
during authorized hours of construction as set forth in subsection 8-3-6K of
this code, and in the case of other deliveries or service calls, the operator
of the commercial vehicle shall park on such property only for such period of
time as is necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of the vehicle or
rendering the service. The parking of a commercial vehicle by the operator of
the vehicle at the operator's place of residence shall not constitute the
making of a delivery or rendering of a service and shall be prohibited.
      3.   Operating Condition And License: No motor vehicle may be parked
outside upon any private property in the village unless it is in operating
condition and properly licensed by the state and the village.
      4.   Definitions: The words and phrases below shall have the indicated
meanings:
    COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: The following motor vehicles:
         a.   Trucks with open beds containing products, equipment, debris or
materials intended for commercial or industrial use, whether stored in the
open, in a cargo storage area or covered by removable material or fabric;
         b.   Box vans; cargo or panel vans in which seats behind the driver's
seat and front passenger seat have been removed or which lack side windows
adjacent to the rear seating area;
         c.   Vehicles with rear tandem wheels;
         d.   Public passenger vehicles such as limousines, commercial service
vans and taxicabs;
         e.   Vehicles painted with or displaying lettering or logos to
advertise a commercial or industrial enterprise;
         f.   Vehicles with attached racks designed to hold ladders, pipes or
other forms of contractor's equipment, or vehicles with storage boxes, lockers,
snowplows, lifts, winches, or similar attachments designed for commercial or
industrial use, or vehicles with any kind of permanently mounted equipment
requiring payment of a registration fee for such equipment under the Illinois
vehicle code; and
         g.   Vehicles having a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) in excess of
ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING OR GVWR: Shall have the meaning given in the
Illinois vehicle code.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES: Camping trailers, motor homes, mini- motor homes,
travel trailers, truck campers or van campers, all as defined in the Illinois
vehicle code.
   SMALL PICKUP TRUCKS: Pickup trucks having a gross vehicle weight rating
(GVWR) of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less and which are not commercial
vehicles. (Ord. 11-08, 11-10-2008)
   D.   Public Works Vehicles: Upon proper application made to the police
department at the village hall, permits may be issued for work or commercial
vehicles on a temporary or emergency basis should the presence of these
vehicles be reasonably anticipated to be necessary for work in the village for
any period of time in excess of the applicable parking time limitation. (Ord.,
8-11-1969)
   E.   Commuter Parking Lot: Vehicles and equipment parking in the village
commuter parking lot at any time between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on weekdays, Monday through Friday, inclusive,
shall pay a fee of two dollars ($2.00) per day, due and payable no later than
ten (10) minutes after vehicle or equipment is parked, and (if permission from
the village police is granted for multiday parking) on each day. (Ord. 07-07A,
7-9-2007)
Any vehicle which is illegally parked or left in the commuter parking lot for
two (2) or more days without payment of the above fee may be towed from the lot
and impounded, or immobilized by the application of a wheel locking device,
under the direction of a member of the police department, and the owner of such
vehicle prior to the release of the vehicle shall be required to pay the towing
and/or releasing charges therefor in addition to any other penalties which may
be imposed hereunder. (Ord. 9402, 3-14-1994)
   F.   Handicap Parking: Vehicles parked in parking places designated
"handicapped" must display "handicapped" license plates or other approved
"handicapped" designation. Any person violating these handicap parking
provisions shall be subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. 07-07, 7-9-2007)
   G.   Commercial And Recreational Vehicles: No trucks, recreational or
commercial vehicles shall be parked on any lane, street or highway within the
village for a period longer than fifteen (15) minutes, but instead are required
to park in the residents' driveways for reasons of safety to the children and
preservation of the village parkways. (Ord., 9-14-1992)
5-4-2: SIGNS POSTED:
The chief of police shall cause appropriate signs to be placed and maintained
in the areas designated in this chapter, where appropriate, in a conspicuous
position, stating the restrictions in letters of such size as to be clearly
legible from a distance of at least fifty feet (50'). Signs designating
handicap parking shall indicate on the sign the amount of the possible fine.
(Ord., 8-11-1969; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 97-04, 3-10-1997)
5-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where there is no
provision to the contrary, shall be subject to a class A penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
5-5-1: License Required
5-5-2: Application For License
5-5-3: Term Of License; Fees
5-5-4: Display Of License
5-5-5: Disposition Of Funds
5-5-6: Prima Facie Evidence
5-5-7: Destruction Of License On Sale
5-5-8: Penalties
5-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Generally: Every owner of a motor vehicle who resides or has his place
of business within the village shall be required to purchase an annual license
and it shall be unlawful for any owner of a motor vehicle to not obtain an
annual license for such vehicle. (Ord., 4-11-1983)
   B.   Leased And Rented Vehicles: Motor vehicles in the custody of a
resident, or a firm whose place of business is located within the village,
shall also be required to be licensed within the village unless said motor
vehicle has a current license from another municipal entity. (Ord., 4-11-1983;
amd. 1989 Code)
5-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every owner or user desiring a license for any such vehicle shall file an
application for same with the village clerk upon such form(s) as the village
clerk may prescribe. (Ord., 4-11-1983)
5-5-3: TERM OF LICENSE; FEES:
All licenses will expire on April 30 of the year of issue. License fees to be
paid annually to the village shall be:
 
For all motor vehicles, including motorcycles $35.00
For motor vehicles first acquired after       17.50
October 30 of each year
For transferring of a license from one motor
vehicle to another during a year, or replace- 5.00
ment of a lost or destroyed license
 
Any person applying for a license after May 1 for a vehicle acquired prior to
May 1 shall be required to pay a late application penalty of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per motor vehicle. (Ord., 4-11-1983; amd. Ord., 7-12-1993)
5-5-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be displayed by being affixed to
the front windshield of motor vehicles having windshields, or displayed for
ease of examination in the case of motorcycles not having windshields, by May 1
in the year of issue. Motor vehicles acquired after May 1 in any year shall be
licensed within thirty (30) days after acquisition. (Ord., 4-11-1983; amd.
Ord., 7-12-1993)
5-5-5: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All revenue derived from motor vehicle license fees shall be used for the
purpose of improving, paving, repairing, maintaining and lighting the streets
and other public roadways within the village; provided, however, that thirty
five percent (35%) of such fees may also be used for the costs of collecting
such revenue and the payment of salaries and wages of police personnel engaged
in the duty of regulating traffic. (Ord., 4-11-1983)
5-5-6: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
It shall constitute prima facie evidence that a motor vehicle is subject to an
annual license fee when a motor vehicle is registered to a named person, firm
or other entity at an address within the village limits. (Ord., 4-11-1983)
5-5-7: DESTRUCTION OF LICENSE ON SALE:
Upon the sale or assignment of a vehicle, the owner shall destroy the license
sticker prior to delivery to purchaser or assignee and so notify the village
clerk within ten (10) days thereof. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
5-5-8: PENALTIES:
Any person owning a motor vehicle in violation of any section of this chapter
shall be subject to a class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code; amd. Ord. 98-8, 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-6-1: Dog And Cat Tax
5-6-2: Tags
5-6-3: Rabies Inoculation
5-6-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-6-5: Nuisance Animals
5-6-6: Wild And/Or Dangerous Animals
5-6-7: Dangerous Dogs
5-6-8: Pit Bull Dogs
5-6-9: Stray Animals
5-6-1: DOG AND CAT TAX:
   A.   Tax Required: Each person who owns or keeps a dog or cat within the
village shall pay an annual tax to the village for each dog or cat he so owns
or keeps. Such annual tax shall be three dollars ($3.00) for each such dog and
cat and shall be payable annually each year to the village clerk.
   B.   Payment Of Tax: The tax provided in subsection A of this section shall
be paid at the office of the village clerk. Upon payment of such tax, the
village clerk shall issue a tag to the person paying such tax for each dog and
cat on which such tax shall have been paid. The village clerk shall keep such
records of the payment of the tax and the issuance of tags as he shall deem
necessary and proper to reflect the actual receipt of the tax and the issuance
of tags.
   C.   Use Of Taxes: All taxes collected under the provisions of this chapter
shall be used for general corporate purposes. (Ord., 10-2-1950; amd. Ord., 4-
14-1975)
   D.   Penalty: Any owner or keeper of a dog or cat within the village failing
to pay the annual tax provided in this chapter shall be considered in violation
hereof and shall be subject to a class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 10-2-1950; amd. Ord., 4-14-1975; 1989 Code)
5-6-2: TAGS:
Tags shall be of metal imprinted with the words "Golf dog tax" or "Golf cat
tax" and the year, and numbered serially. The shape of the tag shall be changed
annually.
The owner or keeper of each dog or cat within the village shall provide said
dog or cat with a collar or harness to which the tag issued in payment of the
tax provided in this chapter shall be fastened. (Ord., 10-2-1950; amd. Ord., 4-
14-1975; 1989 Code)
5-6-3: RABIES INOCULATION:
When paying the annual tax provided in this chapter, each owner or keeper of a
dog or cat within the village shall furnish the village clerk with a
certificate of a veterinarian to the effect that the dog or cat for which the
tax is being paid has been inoculated with antirabies serum within the past
year. This provision will be waived for dogs or cats less than three (3) months
old. (Ord., 10-2-1950; amd. Ord., 4-14-1975)
5-6-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Dogs Running At Large:
      1.   Running At Large Prohibited: The owner or keeper of every dog shall
at all times keep such dog either confined upon the premises of the owner or
keeper or under reasonable control of some person with the use of a secure
leash. (Ord., 5-11-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Prima Facie Evidence: The running at large of any dog in or upon any
of the places mentioned in this subsection is prima facie evidence that it is
running at large in violation of this subsection.
      3.   Violation; Penalty: The following punishments shall be as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code:
         a.   Whoever violates any provision of this subsection A for a first
time is guilty of a class A violation.
         b.   Whoever violates any provision of this subsection A in a second
offense shall be guilty of a class B violation, and any subsequent offense
shall be a class C violation.
         c.   Any licensed or unlicensed dog found running at large in any
street, public place or upon land of another person without permission, in
violation of this subsection A, may be impounded on sight by village police.
Village police shall promptly notify the owner or keeper of impoundment and,
except as otherwise provided herein, shall return the dog upon the owner or
keeper's payment of the expense of impoundment.
         d.   For a violation of this subsection A which involves an occurrence
where a person has been attacked or caused personal injury by a dog running at
large, the owner or keeper of such animal shall be guilty of a class D
violation. Such animal shall immediately be impounded by village police and
thereafter destroyed pursuant to an appropriate court order after notice to the
owner or keeper and a hearing. Impounding and destruction of such animal shall
be at the expense of the owner or keeper. (Ord., 5-11-1992)
         e.   Enforcement of the provisions of this subsection A shall be under
the direction of the chief of police. (Ord., 5-11-1992; amd. Ord., 9-13-1993)
         f.   In any hearing under any section of this chapter, testimony that
the records of the village clerk show that the animal license was issued to the
defendant shall be prima facie evidence of ownership.
   B.   Abandoning Animals:
      1.   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other animal shall abandon such
animal within the village.
      2.   Whoever violates this subsection B is guilty of a class A violation.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Killing Or Injuring Animals:
      1.   No person shall kill or injure any animal that is the property of
another person absent exigent circumstances.
      2.   Whoever violates this subsection C is guilty of a class D violation.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Poisoning Animals:
      1.   No person shall administer poison to any animal unless supervised by
an Illinois licensed veterinarian. Professional activities of Illinois licensed
exterminators are exempt from this subsection D.
      2.   Whoever violates this subsection D is guilty of a class D violation.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   E.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   No person shall: a) torture any animal, deprive one of necessary
sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill an
animal; b) keep or confine an animal without supplying it with a sufficient
quantity of good food and water; c) keep or confine an animal without affording
it shelter from excessive wind, rain, snow, cold or heat; or d) carry or convey
an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      2.   Whoever violates this subsection E is guilty of a class B violation.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-11-1992)
5-6-5: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   No owner shall allow his dog, cat or other domestic animal to become a
public nuisance. Excessive barking, whining or howling, molesting passersby,
chasing vehicles, attacking other domestic animals or damaging property, unless
otherwise provided herein, shall be considered a nuisance under the provisions
of this section.
   B.   Any animal which scratches, digs, urinates or defecates upon any lawn,
tree, shrub, plant, building or any other public or private property, other
than the property of the owner or keeper of such animal, is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance. Where the owner or keeper of such animal immediately
removes all feces deposited by such animal and disposes of same in a sanitary
manner, such nuisance shall be considered abated.
   C.   No person shall keep, or suffer to be kept, any swine, goats or sheep;
pigeons, chickens, roosters, ducks, geese or other poultry; or poisonous snakes
or boa constrictors within the village. Any of the foregoing animals when kept
within the village are declared to be a public nuisance.
   D.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a class A violation.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord., 5-11-1992; amd. Ord. 2023-03, 6-14-2021)
5-6-6: WILD AND/OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall own or keep any wild or dangerous animal. A "wild or
dangerous animal", as used herein, means any animal considered dangerous to
humans and commonly living in a state of nature and not ordinarily tame or
domesticated.
   B.   Any animal in violation of this section may be impounded by village
police and thereafter destroyed pursuant to an appropriate court order after
notice to the owner or keeper, and a hearing. Impounding and destruction of
such animal shall be at the expense of the owner or keeper. (Ord., 5-11-1992)
   C.   Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be under the
direction of the chief of police. (Ord., 5-11-1992; amd. Ord., 9-13-1993)
5-6-7: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions:
    DANGEROUS DOG: 1. Any dog with a reputation, propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack, to cause injury to or otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings peaceably conducting themselves or other peaceable domestic
animals; or
      2.   Any dog which has attacked a human being or another domestic animal
one or more times without provocation.
   UNCONFINED: A dangerous dog is unconfined if such dog is not securely
confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure
area. Such pen or structure must have secure sides and secure top and be made
of cyclone fence material and have a dangerous dog sign posted thereon. If the
pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded
in the ground no less than two feet (2').
   B.   Prohibited Acts And Conditions: No dangerous dog shall go unconfined
within the limits of the village except in compliance with each of the
following conditions:
      1.   In the care of an adult; and
      2.   Securely leashed with a choke collar and a leash of at least three
hundred (300) pounds tensile strength and no greater than three feet (3') in
length; and
      3.   Securely muzzled to prevent the dog from biting or injuring any
person or animal.
   C.   Owner's Responsibilities: The owner or keeper of a dangerous dog:
      1.   Shall at all times maintain liability insurance with an insurer
authorized in this state providing coverage for each occurrence of not less
than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury to or death
of a person caused by a dangerous dog.
      2.   Is responsible for compliance with this section. Whoever violates
this section is guilty of a class D violation. Punishment shall be as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Impoundment: Any dangerous dog violating this section anywhere within
the village limits shall be deemed a menace to the health and safety of the
general public and shall be immediately impounded by village police and
thereafter destroyed pursuant to an appropriate court order after notice to the
owner or keeper and a hearing. Impounding and destruction of such animal shall
be at the expense of the owner or keeper. (Ord., 5-11-1992; amd. Ord., 9-13-
1993)
5-6-8: PIT BULL DOGS:
   A.   Legislative Intent: This section is intended to utilize the authority
and powers of the village in order to secure for the citizens of the village
the protection of their health, safety and welfare. It applies to all dogs
which are commonly referred to as pit bulls and which are defined herein. The
village has determined to ban pit bull dogs because they present a particularly
serious threat to the welfare of the village residents as documented by
numerous authorities 1 .
   B.   Definition And Identification:
      1.   Reference to a pit bull dog shall mean:
         a.   Any dog which exhibits those distinguishing characteristics which
substantially conform to the standards established by the American Kennel Club
for American Staffordshire terriers or Staffordshire bull terriers; or
         b.   Any dog which exhibits those distinguishing characteristics which
substantially conform to the standards established by the United Kennel Club
for American pit bull terriers; or
         c.   Any mixed breed of dog containing as an element of its breeding
the breed of American Staffordshire terrier or Staffordshire bull terrier or
American pit bull terrier; or
         d.   Any mixed breed of dog identifiable as partially of the breed of
American Staffordshire terrier or Staffordshire bull terrier or American pit
bull terrier by a qualified Illinois licensed veterinarian or qualified village
police officer.
      2.   The standards of the American Kennel Club and the United Kennel Club
referred to herein are incorporated hereby reference, and attached to the
ordinance on file with the village clerk as exhibit A.
      3.   Certification or testimony by a qualified Illinois licensed
veterinarian or qualified village police officer that a particular dog exhibits
those distinguishing physical characteristics of a pit bull dog, as defined
herein, shall establish a rebuttable presumption that the dog is a pit bull.
   C.   Prohibition: Upon the effective date of this section, pit bull dogs are
prohibited within the village limits and no person shall be permitted to own,
keep or harbor a pit bull dog within the limits of the village.
   D.   Consequences Of Violation:
      1.   Violation of this section shall result in impoundment and humane
destruction of the pit bull dog according to the enforcement procedures
provided in subsection E of this section;
      2.   Impoundment, veterinarian certification or testimony and destruction
of a pit bull dog shall be at the expense of the owner or keeper;
      3.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a class D violation.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   E.   Enforcement Procedures: A village police officer with a reasonable
belief that a violation of this section has occurred shall promptly take the
following action:
      1.   Immediately impound any suspected pit bull dog on sight unless
impoundment requires entry into a residence and permission to enter cannot be
obtained;
      2.   If impoundment requires entry into a residence and permission to
enter cannot be obtained, then the village police shall promptly apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for an order directing any occupant of the
residence to immediately surrender the dog to the custody of the village police
for impoundment under the provisions of this section.
      3.   The village police shall issue a citation to the dog owner or keeper
advising the person of his violation of this section. The citation shall
further advise of impoundment of the dog and give notice of a court hearing
wherein the village police will apply for an order of destruction of the dog
under the provisions of this section, all at the owner or keeper's expense.
Such hearing, if practicable, shall be at least three (3) days after issuance
of the citation;
      4.   The village police shall then promptly obtain a court order for
humane destruction of the impounded pit bull dog at a hearing in a court of
competent jurisdiction. At the hearing, village police shall present a
certificate or testimony of a qualified Illinois licensed veterinarian or
testimony of a qualified village police officer, verifying the impounded dog is
a pit bull, as defined in this section. Upon presentation of such verifying
certificate or testimony, the village police shall forthwith request the court
to order humane destruction of the pit bull dog;
      5.   At the time of the hearing, the village police shall also request
the court to include in its order that the owner or keeper of the pit bull dog
shall, within thirty (30) days, reimburse the village for the reasonable
expenses of impoundment, veterinarian certification or testimony and humane
destruction of the dog;
      6.   Upon issuance of the court's order, a village police officer shall
forthwith secure the humane destruction of the pit bull dog by an Illinois
licensed veterinarian in accordance with the order. (Ord., 5-11-1992)
 
Notes
  1. State v. Anderson, 566 N.E.2d 1224 (Ohio 1991); Garcia v. Village of
1 Tijeras, 767 P.2d 355 (N.M. App. 1988); Hearn v. City of Overland Park, 722
  P.2d 758 (Kan. 1989); Vanater v. Village of South Point, 717 F.Supp. 1236
  (S.D. Ohio 1989); State v. Peters, 534 So.2d 760 (Fla. Ap. 1988).
5-6-9: STRAY ANIMALS:
Applicable to every provision of this chapter, in the event the owner or keeper
of a subject animal cannot reasonably be determined within three (3) days of
impoundment, then the animal shall be deemed a stray and village police may,
without more notice, humanely dispose of the stray animal as permitted by law.
(Ord., 5-11-1992)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC SALES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-7-1: Public Sale Permit
5-7-2: Imported Property
5-7-3: Signs
5-7-4: Penalties
5-7-1: PUBLIC SALE PERMIT:
A permit shall be secured from the village for each day of a public sale of
personal property (e.g., yard, garage or estate sales) at least seven (7) days
in advance of such sales. All such public sale permits shall be on forms
provided by the village and shall be submitted to the police department. No
more than three (3) permits shall be issued to any address in any one calendar
year. (Ord. 9408, 10-10-1994)
5-7-2: IMPORTED PROPERTY:
No property shall be imported into the village for the purpose of the sales
regulated by this chapter. (Ord. 9408, 10-10-1994)
5-7-3: SIGNS:
One sign may be placed on the premises and one sign off the premises in
accordance with subsection 8-7-2A of this code only on the day of the sale.
(Ord. 9408, 10-10-1994)
5-7-4: PENALTIES:
Any person effecting a sale in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a
class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 9408, 10-10-1994)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Removal And Deposit Of Snow And Ice
6-1-2: Sidewalks
6-1-3: Parkways
6-1-4: Driveway Construction Restrictions
6-1-5: Removal And Restoration Of Owner Improvements Located In Street Rights
Of Way And Parkways
6-1-6: Penalty
6-1-1: REMOVAL AND DEPOSIT OF SNOW AND ICE:
No person engaged in removing snow or ice from any building, private property,
driveway, driveway approach or public sidewalk shall sweep, plow, shovel,
scrape, drag or in any other manner move or deposit snow or ice in such a way
as to narrow the traveled portion of any public street, block the vision of
motorists at intersections, prevent parking at the edge of the pavement, cover
or interfere with the use of fire hydrants, block sidewalks or driveways,
damage parkway trees or sod or otherwise create any traffic or other hazard.
Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person that contracts for the
removal of snow or ice shall bear responsibility for actions by their agent(s).
(Ord., 1-9-1984)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a class B penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code)
6-1-2: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Driving Over Sidewalks; Protection Required: During the course of any
building construction or property improvement of any kind, no vehicles, whether
empty or loaded, shall be permitted to drive on or over a sidewalk without
there first having been placed thereon as a protection for said sidewalk a
wooden shield made of timber or other planks with minimum specifications of two
inches by four inches (2" x 4"), so placed as to ensure protection to the
surface and edges of said sidewalk. (Ord. 86, 10-13-1941)
   B.   Removal Or Destruction Of Sidewalks: No public sidewalk shall be
removed or destroyed unless the village board shall have first issued a permit
in writing therefor. Such permit shall only be issued where the sidewalk in
question is to be removed or destroyed for the purpose of replacement. (Ord.
86, 10-13-1941; amd. 1989 Code)
6-1-3: PARKWAYS:
   A.   Concrete Buttons And Boulders; Permit Required:
      1.   Dome shaped concrete markers (commonly called "concrete buttons")
not to exceed six inches (6") in height and having a diameter no greater than
twelve inches (12") or rocks of substantially the same size are permitted to be
placed in parkways adjacent to the paved portions of roadways, provided such
markers are placed at intervals no closer than four feet (4') apart.
      2.   Smooth nonjagged boulders may be used, provided that an application
is made and a permit duly issued by the village board, as follows:
        PARKWAY BOULDER APPLICATION
                  , residing at                                   , hereby
applies to place          boulders on the parkway at said address. Boulders are
approximately          x            and will be located no closer than one foot
(1') from the pavement edge and at intervals no closer than four feet (4')
apart.
In consideration of this permit by the village of Golf, I hereby agree to
accept full responsibility for the boulders, returning them to their proper
place if moved.
I further agree to indemnify and hold the village of Golf harmless from any
loss, expense, cost, judgment and attorneys' fees for any claim arising out of
any accident, injury or damage claim that may result.
                                                                
       (Signature)
      3.   Concrete markers not in conformance with the provisions of
subsection A1 of this section, and boulders for which an application has not
been made and a permit issued are subject to removal by order of the village
president. (Ord., 1989)
   B.   Filling Or Sodding Parkways: No material other than sod or topsoil may
at any time be placed in any parkway without a written permit being obtained
from the village board, which permit shall specify the location, width, slope
and height to which said material may be piled.
   C.   Underground facilities. No private facilities shall be installed
underground in parkways except upon receiving a permit from the village.
Private service extensions for water service, sanitary sewer service and
utility services are allowed underground subject to applicable provisions of
this code. Other underground, private facilities in parkways are not allowed
except upon receiving a permit from the village, which may require the owner to
execute a recordable agreement with the village concerning the duties and
liabilities of the parties.
   D.   Parkways. As used in this chapter or elsewhere in this code, the term
"parkway" means any portion of the right of way not improved with a street or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 86, 10-13-1941; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2020-05, 7-16-2020)
6-1-4: DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Materials; Permit Required: No permanent driveway approach of cement,
brick or other solid material shall be laid or installed in any public parkway
nor shall any permanent driveway curbing be constructed or installed in any
such parkway without a permit issued by the village board. Any existing
concrete curbing shall be removed from such public parkway whenever such
curbing is dangerous to traffic or obstructs or hinders the use of the street
by vehicles or pedestrians. (Ord. 86, 10-13-1941; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Slope: No driveway approach constructed of crushed rock, asphalt, mixed
rock, sand, cinders, dirt or of similar material shall be laid to such a slope
or height as to interfere with good and adequate drainage from the crown of the
road and from the shoulder of the roadbed toward the nearest downstream sewer
opening, according to the normal flow of the surface water now existing in such
street at its present grade. (Ord. 86, 10-13-1941; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
   C.   Nonconforming Driveways: Any driveway approaches which have, prior to
the enactment of this section, been installed without a written permit from the
village board, shall be removed when such approaches are not in conformity with
the requirements of this section whenever, in the opinion of the village board,
such approaches interfere with proper street drainage or present a hazard to
pedestrians or vehicles. (Ord. 86, 10-13-1941; amd. 1989 Code)
6-1-5: REMOVAL AND RESTORATION OF OWNER IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED IN STREET RIGHTS
OF WAY AND PARKWAYS:
The village reserves the right to relocate or remove any improvements placed by
an owner (including concrete markers or other material placed in parkways by
permit pursuant to section
6-1-3 of this chapter) within the street rights of way (including private
street easements) and parkways along the frontage of such owner's lot when
deemed necessary or desirable by the village to perform utility or street
operations, including, but not limited to, all snowplowing, repairs,
maintenance, directional underground drilling, trenching, repaving or
replacements, whether performed by the village or its agents or contractors. In
the exercise of the foregoing powers, the village shall have the right to
relocate or remove improvements such as custom mailboxes, fences, driveway
entrance and lighting features, sprinkler or irrigation systems or driveway
materials of whatever kind or nature including, but not by limitation, asphalt,
gravel, colored stone, stamped, colored or exposed aggregate concrete or
asphalt, or specialty material pavers. Before proceeding with the removal or
relocation of improvements impeding its operations, the village shall notify
and give the owner a reasonable opportunity to protect such of its improvements
as may safely be removed or relocated, except in cases of emergency when any
delay will exacerbate the situation giving rise to the need to remove or
relocate the improvements, or when the health or safety of the village
residents is in issue. If any damage to the owner's driveway improvements shall
occur as a result of the village's operations, the village: a) shall repair and
restore the owner's driveway using standard asphalt materials or standard
finished concrete as needed to restore a structural condition equal to or
better than the condition that existed before the village's operations or b) if
the owner makes a written request prior to commencement of the restoration
project releasing the village from the obligation to complete restoration, the
village shall reimburse the owner for an amount equal to the cost savings
(based on unit prices if the village entered into a unit price contract)
realized by the village in not restoring the driveway, and the owner, after
obtaining all required permits, shall proceed with the driveway restoration
under its own direction and at its own cost, using materials of its choosing.
All costs incurred by any owner in restoring or replacing any other
improvements removed by the village pursuant to this section shall be borne
solely by such owner; provided, however, that the village reserves the right to
reimburse an owner for the replacement costs of any removed improvement,
including, but not by limitation, a standard mailbox as determined by the
village if an owner's mailbox is damaged by the village during snowplowing
operations. (Ord. 4/13, 4-13-2009)
6-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where there is no
provision to the contrary, shall be subject to a class B penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code; amd. Ord. 4/13, 4-13-2009)
CHAPTER 2
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Village Map
6-2-2: Numbering System Established
6-2-3: Required Display Of Street Address Numbers
6-2-4: Penalties
6-2-1: VILLAGE MAP:
The village map, prepared and certified by the village engineer, showing all of
the lots existing in the village as of the effective date hereof is made a part
of this chapter and a copy of said map is on file in the office of the village
clerk. (Ord., 2-13-1984; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
6-2-2: NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
The village president and village board of trustees hereby establish the number
of each lot in the village by endorsing the street address of each lot on the
above referenced village map, which numbering system is incorporated herein by
reference as though fully set forth in the written text of this chapter. (Ord.,
2-13-1984; amd. 1989 Code)
6-2-3: REQUIRED DISPLAY OF STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS:
Each owner or occupant of any property in the village shall provide, place and
display the street number established for such property pursuant to section
6-2-2 of this chapter, in a manner that such street number may be easily and
distinctly read year round from the roadway in the daylight and easily and
distinctly read year round during darkness with the use of outside lighting
provided by the persons on the roadway doing the reading. (Ord. 2009-12, 9-14-
2009)
6-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any owner or occupant of property violating or failing to comply with the
requirements of section
6-2-3 of this chapter, if such violation or failure to comply continues
following three (3) days after notification thereof is sent by certified or
registered mail, shall be subject to a monthly fine, as set forth in the annual
fee schedule, for each month or part thereof that the violation continues.
(Ord. 2009-12, 9-14-2009)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES ON RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose And Scope
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Annual Registration Required
6-3-4: Permit Required; Application Requirements And Fees
6-3-5: Village Review Of Permit Applications
6-3-6: Effect Of Permit
6-3-7: Insurance And Indemnification
6-3-8: Security
6-3-9: Permit Suspension And Revocation
6-3-10: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
6-3-11: General Construction Standards
6-3-12: Location Of Facilities
6-3-13: Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction Methods
6-3-14: Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities
6-3-15: Materials
6-3-16: Operational Restrictions
6-3-17: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
6-3-18: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
6-3-19: Variances
6-3-20: Penalties; Enforcement
6-3-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places; and
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic; and
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property; and
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities; and
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces; and
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed; and
      7.   Preserve open space; and
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Provisions Of The Village Code: This chapter
supersedes all other provisions of the village code, or parts thereof, adopted
prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, but only to the extent of such
conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
chapter. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. Any term
not defined in this chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92
Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise. In the event that a term is not defined by this chapter or
92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, said term shall have its common
and ordinary meaning.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Golf.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR: The building official of the village or his or her designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect(s) on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village or drainage culverts, ditches or swales, which
remain subject to the provisions of title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
director to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or
safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment,
including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or
petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables,
corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any
federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes, 5/1-
101 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video services from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal levels.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Golf.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-
12-2010)
6-3-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register no
later than January 1 of each year with the director, providing the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection
with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of way and a
twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required herein, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord.
2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct any facility on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village right of way which: 1)
changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the
right of way, or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied
by the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right of
way, without first filing an application with the director and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name, address, telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruption to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this chapter unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications depicting the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer (licensed in the state of Illinois)
that such drawings, plans, and specifications comply with applicable codes,
rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required by this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required by this
chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter; and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video services or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, and other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). No application
fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the
municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee law, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes
645/5-1. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-5: VILLAGE REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Review By Director: Completed permit applications, containing all
required documentation, shall be examined by the director within a reasonable
time after filing. If the application does not conform to the requirements of
all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the director
shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the
director is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of
this chapter and all other applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the director shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the director, that the construction proposed under the
application is in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The director shall
specify the portion of the right of way upon which the facility shall be
placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the director fails to provide such specification
of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a) ten (10) days
after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer in
the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or b) twenty
five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in
the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of foregoing specification by the village, where
a permit is required for work pursuant to this chapter, the telecommunications
retailer shall submit to the village an application for a permit and any and
all plans, specifications and documentation available regarding the facility to
be constructed. Such application shall be subject to the requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit issued by the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually commenced
within said period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   E.   As Constructed Permit Drawings: The permittee shall submit an as
constructed set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The as constructed drawings or
plans shall specifically identify the locations of the actual facilities as
installed under the permit. If any deviation from the permit also deviates from
the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for variance
in accordance with this chapter. If the village denies the request for a
variance, then the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of
way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised
drawings or plans therefor. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-7: INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village President of such intent to cancel or
not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this chapter shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this chapter
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
   H.   Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in the right
of way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit and/or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the
negligence, misconduct or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-8: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this chapter. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this chapter at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform and that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter and any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior written notice to
the village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the director, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the director may, in
the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount
of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under
the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be
equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions
of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice stating the reason for, and its intention to, exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount required
herein.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
herein.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-
12-2010)
6-3-9: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to the permittee as set forth in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) business days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth herein.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the village or its designee may,
at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon not less
than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities
or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to the
permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the
village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-10: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2010-07,
7-12-2010)
6-3-11: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the director shall determine, in the exercise of sound engineering
judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final. If
requested, the director shall state which standard or principle will apply to
the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
   C.   Traffic Control:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
      2.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
      3.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      4.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior
to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
      5.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-12: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the director determines that the proposed location
will require the relocation or displacement of any of the village's utility
facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or maintenance of any
of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)). Unless expressly authorized by the village, markers shall be set flush
with the adjacent ground surface.
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2010-
07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-13: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
METHODS:
   A.   Boring Or Jacking:
      1.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the director
from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be excavated no
more than twenty four (24) hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within twenty four (24) hours after boring or jacking operations are
completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by
barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and
maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that
may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
      2.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be permitted
under the roadway.
      3.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
      4.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") (0.15 m) or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided
with auger, or auger and following pipe method.
      5.   Horizontal Directional Drilling: Where utility facilities are to be
installed within rights of way by horizontal directional drilling, sufficient
equipment shall be available and on site during the drilling operations to
contain, remove, and dispose of any drilling fluids, mud, slurry, or other
material created or displaced by the drilling operations.
      6.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of any
tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      7.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be conducted in accordance with all
applicable provisions of section 819 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of an open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the director.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: An open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      8.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the director.
      9.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A9 is
permitted, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with controlled low strength material meeting the
requirements of section 1019 of "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" or granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the director.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with hot mix asphalt shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      10.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      11.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                          Minimum Cover
Electric lines                            30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service     18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                      determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                 30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                           protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage  Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
 
(Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-14: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR TYPES OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
      1.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities within
village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communications lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
      2.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
      3.   Underground Facilities:
         a.   Trenching Or Plowing: Cable may be installed by trenching or
plowing, provided that special consideration is given to boring in order to
minimize damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads.
         b.   Boring Or Jacking: If a crossing is installed by boring or
jacking, encasement shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement
may be eliminated only if: 1) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles",
"whip augers", or other approved method which compresses the earth to make the
opening for cable installation or 2) the installation is by the open trench
method which is only permitted prior to roadway construction.
         c.   Grounded: Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted in writing by the village. Weather permitting,
utilities shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10)
business days after placement.
      4.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      5.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      6.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      7.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      8.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director. With the approval of the director,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of a vegetation
free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a
neutral color to blend with the surroundings. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-15: MATERIALS:
   A.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities within
rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the appropriate
industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the Illinois commerce commission,
or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the
appropriate industry.
   B.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the director. When such
storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property.
   C.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the village
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-
12-2010)
6-3-16: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Operations Discontinued: Construction operations on rights of way may,
at the discretion of the village, be required to be discontinued when such
operations would create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and
welfare. Such operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted
when conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to
the right of way or other property.
   B.   Emergency Work Required: These restrictions may be waived by the
director when emergency work is required to restore utility services.
   C.   Hours Of Construction: Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the
hours of construction are those set forth in this title.
   D.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with underground facilities damage prevention act 1 .
   E.   Vegetation Control:
      1.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
      2.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that
is done by any entity other than an electric utility with facilities in the
right of way and that is not performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and
regulations specifically governing same, shall not be considered a normal
maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the issuance
of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this chapter.
      3.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      4.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
      5.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
      6.   Chemical Use:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection E6b of this section, no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
         b.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
6-3-17: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the director determines
that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
   E.   Cleanup And Restoration: The utility shall remove all excess material
and restore all turf and terrain and other property within ten (10) days after
any portion of the rights of way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to
construction or maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the
village. This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of
roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
director. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling,
regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right
of way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to
the commencement of the project. The time period provided in this chapter may
be extended by the director for good cause shown. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-18: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
director or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing him or
her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling public and
what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature of the
emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-19: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director as a
part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of
this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The director shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The director may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the director may require the utility requesting the
variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of the
same.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the director
under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the
village board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the village clerk
within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The village board shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the board's next regularly scheduled meeting, but in no event earlier than
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The village board shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
6-3-20: PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalties: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine in accordance with the village's annual fee ordinance. There may be
times when the village incurs delay or other costs, including third party
claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its
permit and this chapter. Unless the utility demonstrates that another
allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the
utility shall bear the village's costs and/or damages and its costs of
installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the facility that
is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or commission may
review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the village.
Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs apportioned
to it.
   B.   Enforcement: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any
additional or further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of
this chapter. (Ord. 2010-07, 7-12-2010)
TITLE 7
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Water Commission
7-1-2: Water Superintendent; Certified Water Operator
7-1-3: Rules And Regulations
7-1-4: Definitions
7-1-5: Water Connection Fee; Application To Use, Tap Or Connect To The Water
System
7-1-6: Construction Regulations
7-1-7: Meters
7-1-8: Maintenance And Testing
7-1-9: Water Rates And Charges
7-1-10: Underground Sprinkling Systems
7-1-11: Fire Hydrants
7-1-12: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-13: Shutoff Of Water
7-1-14: Water Fund
7-1-15: Penalties
7-1-1: WATER COMMISSION:
   A.   Established: The members of the village board of trustees shall,
together with the village president, constitute the water commission.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The water commission shall have full power,
supervision and control of the operation and government of the water system of
the village. The water commission may hire such help as may from time to time
be necessary for the proper and efficient operation of said water system, the
keeping of the records and accounts, and shall fix the term of employment and
salaries of the employees thereof and shall also furnish the stationery and
supplies necessary to a proper and businesslike conduct of said water system.
(Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-2: WATER SUPERINTENDENT; CERTIFIED WATER OPERATOR:
The water commission shall appoint a superintendent and a certified water
operator who shall perform such duties as said commission may prescribe. (Ord.,
9-10-1956; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Permission and authority is hereby vested in the water superintendent to make
and enforce all needed rules and regulations for the operation and government
of said water system and its appurtenances, its employees, their salaries,
terms of employment, hours of service and duties, but no rules or regulations
shall be promulgated by the superintendent which shall in any way contravene,
alter or modify any ordinance or ordinances passed by the village president and
village board of trustees having reference to the water system or any matter or
thing connected therewith. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Where used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
definitions ascribed to them in this section:
FAMILY: Any number of closely related individuals and their servants living and
cooking together on the premises as a single housekeeping unit.
FAMILY USE: The use of water for domestic purposes, for lavatories, tubs,
showers and toilets, in the kitchen for the usual family culinary purposes and
in the laundry as required by the family. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-5: WATER CONNECTION FEE; APPLICATION TO USE, TAP OR CONNECT TO THE WATER
SYSTEM:
No water shall be supplied to any building, structure or premises in the
village from said water system, nor shall any person be permitted to tap any
water main or make any connection with any supply pipe or service pipe for the
purpose of furnishing water to any building, structure or premises or for any
other purpose without first having paid the water connection fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to the water superintendent or his representative.
At the time this connection fee is paid, application must be made in writing to
the water superintendent by the person desiring such a building, structure or
premises to be supplied with water, or desiring to tap any main, or to make any
connection with such service pipe or supply pipe. Such application shall state
fully all purposes for which the water supply is desired and where it is
desired to tap such water main or to make connection with such service pipe or
supply pipe. The Village, at its expense, shall contract to make such tap and
connection from the water main to the owner's shutoff valve. (Ord. 12-18-1961;
amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-6: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   Any building, structure or premises with which it is desired to make
connection with a Village water main shall be provided with and shall have
installed, at the expense of the Village a buffalo or shutoff box located
between the meter vault and water main, the top of the box to be at grade
level. Such buffalo or shutoff box shall be constructed and located to the
satisfaction of the Water Superintendent. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   There shall be only one pipeline per metered service. Tap on water
pipes shall not be greater than 1.5 inches to water mains of eight inches (8")
or greater in size. Tap on water pipes shall not be greater than one inch (1")
taps for water mains of six inches (6"). (Ord. 04-07, 10-11-2004)
      3.   All service pipes between meter vaults and water mains shall be
copper tubing, of proper gauge for a pressure of one hundred (100) pounds per
square inch. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 1989 Code)
      4.   All tap on lines shall be laid at a depth of not less than five feet
(5') below grade level and excavations under street pavements must be made by
boring, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Village Engineer. All
excavation and borings must be backfilled with CA-6 aggregate sand for a
distance of at least four feet (4') each side of the pavement and all excess
spoil shall be removed. (Ord. 04-07, 10-11-2004)
   B.   Responsibility For Construction: All construction, including meter
vault, piping, valves, meter and buffalo box between the water main and
customer's property line shall be at the expense of the property owner or
occupant and thereafter the Village will maintain that part between the water
main up to and including the buffalo box; furthermore, no such service facility
shall be used for more than one home or property. (Ord., 9-10-1956)
   C.   Licensed Plumbers To Do Work: No private supply pipe shall be laid by
any other person than a duly licensed or appointed plumber acting under
authority of the permit for the laying of such private supply pipe, as herein
provided. All work shall be done by preapproved Village contractors. (Ord., 6-
1-1959; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
   D.   Notification Process: The permittee/applicant shall notify the Village
Water Superintendent of the time and date of the proposed water service tap.
The Superintendent shall collect the permit tap fee and notify the Village
plumbing inspector to inspect the work. The check shall be deposited prior to
the start of work. A minimum of seventy two (72) hours' notice is required.
(Ord. 04-07, 10-11-2004)
7-1-7: METERS:
All water sold or supplied by the Village shall be measured by a meter of a
kind, style and variety as determined by the Water Superintendent. (Ord., 9-10-
1956; amd. 1989 Code)
   A.   Inspections: The owner of any building or premises so supplied with
water shall see that such meters are kept and remain free from obstructions on
or about the same, and that they are conveniently accessible at all reasonable
times for the purpose of reading, inspecting, repairing or replacing the same.
A duly authorized employee or agent of the Village shall be permitted at all
reasonable hours to inspect or examine such meters for the purpose of reading,
repairing or replacing the meters, and if such access is not afforded to the
Village within fifteen (15) days after notice requesting such access, the water
on said premises may be shut off, and may not be turned on until such owner has
complied with the requirement to permit access to the premises for the purpose
of inspecting, examining, reading, repairing or replacing the meters. Notice
under this section shall be given via certified mail to the billing address on
record at the Water Department. (Ord. 2018-09, 11-12-2018)
   B.   Meter Repair: The Water Superintendent shall make all repairs to or
replacement of meters, charging the owner of the property with the expense or
cost of repair and parts supplied. In case the meter is beyond repair, a new
meter shall be installed at the owner's expense, upon notice to such owner. All
meters shall be properly and thoroughly tested by the Water Superintendent
before being put in place and shall be installed under the direction of the
said Superintendent and properly sealed and registered. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd.
1989 Code)
7-1-8: MAINTENANCE AND TESTING:
   A.   Maintenance: Every person supplied with water from the water system
shall keep his own service pipe and any and all stopcocks and all appurtenances
to his service pipe in good repair and protected from frost at his own expense,
and shall also prevent the waste of water through hydrant or by reason of
defective pipe or cocks; and in case any portion of the same shall be in a
leaky or defective condition, such person shall be notified by the water
superintendent, either in person or by writing, of such leaky or defective
condition, and in case the same is not repaired within five (5) days after such
notice, the water supply shall be shut off and shall not be again turned on
until such person has complied with all the conditions of this chapter
applicable thereto. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Testing: Every person supplied with water from the water system shall
allow the water superintendent to draw samples as necessary to comply with
state and federal laws. (1989 Code)
7-1-9: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
All water sold or supplied by the village shall be used for domestic purposes
only, except as hereafter enumerated, and shall be paid for at the rates herein
fixed: (Ord. 06-06, 6-12-2006)
   A.   Water Use Within Village Limits: Effective March 2009, water consumed
within the village limits will be billed per three (3) month period at six
dollars fifty two cents ($6.52) per one thousand (1,000) gallons, with a
minimum charge of ten dollars ($10.00) for said period.
   B.   Water Use Outside Village Limits And Commercial Accounts: Effective
March 2009, water consumed outside the village limits will be billed per three
(3) month period at six dollars ninety eight cents ($6.98) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons, with a minimum charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for said
period. (Ord. 09-08, 7-13-2009)
   C.   Due Date; Minimum Payment; Service Charges: Billing for residential
water service shall be done quarterly. Water bills shall be payable by the
owner or occupant of the property receiving the service on or before the
payment due date stated in the water bill. Payment due dates will be at least
twenty five (25) days from the invoice date. The total minimum payment due each
billing cycle will be the sum of the current invoiced amount plus all past due
amounts, which may include village service charges and late fees. For water
bills not paid after twenty five (25) days, a reminder notice will be sent to
the billing address on record. For water bills not paid by forty five (45) days
from the invoice date, there shall then be added to the bill and thereafter due
to the village a service charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00). For the bills
that remain unpaid more than sixty (60) days after the invoice date, the
village may send a second late notice via certified mail to the billing address
on record at the water department and thereafter there shall be due to the
village an additional service charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and then
the total unpaid balance will be charged a one percent (1%) per month (12
percent per year) late fee, starting from the payment due date until the
account balance is paid in full.
   D.   Foreclosure Of Lien: If any delinquent water bill is not paid within
one hundred eighty (180) days after rendition of the bill, and without regard
to any other remedy that the village may have or may have exercised, the lien
provided in section
7-1-13 of this chapter may be foreclosed in the same manner as a mortgage
foreclosure by appropriate legal action in the circuit court of Cook County.
The fees and costs incurred by the village to prosecute such foreclosure
action, including all attorney fees (including the initial fee assessed in the
fee schedule for preparation and recording of the lien), fees for the village
engineer and other opinion witnesses, costs of depositions and court reporters
and court filing fees, shall constitute additional delinquent water supply user
charges for which the village is entitled to receive payment. (Ord. 2009-10, 8-
10-2009)
7-1-10: UNDERGROUND SPRINKLING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Underground Sprinkling Systems: Underground sprinkling systems cannot
be installed except with the written approval of the building commissioner.
Requests for permission to install an underground sprinkling system should be
made in writing to the water superintendent, giving details of the system,
including the number of nozzles. The water superintendent is empowered to
require the installation of a separate water meter for such a system. Requests
for an underground sprinkling system will be accompanied by a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) deposit to be returned after the backflow shutoff valve has
been properly installed and certified by a licensed backflow inspector as
prescribed by IEPA regulations. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
   B.   Sprinkling During Fires: All sprinkling in the village shall be
discontinued during a fire.
   C.   Devices To Increase Flow Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to use or
install any motor, engine or other power driven pump or device for the purpose
of increasing the flow or pressure of the water delivered from the water mains,
except for firefighting purposes. (Ord., 9-10-1956)
7-1-11: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Use Restricted: No person shall take water from any fire plug or
hydrant or any other unmetered outlet connected to the village water mains
unless such person shall first have made application for the use of such water
and received permission from the water superintendent, or unless such person is
an employee of the water commission in the discharge of his duties as such.
When such permission is granted, the fire hydrant or plug shall be opened and
closed only with the special fire hydrant wrench provided for such purpose.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: No person shall wilfully or carelessly break or injure
any fire or public hydrant or pollute or unnecessarily waste the water of such
hydrant, or obstruct the use of any fire hydrant, or place any material in
front of or within ten feet (10') of any side thereof. (Ord., 9-10-1956)
   C.   Inspections: The village of Glenview, as fire protection service
provider, is duly authorized to inspect all public fire hydrants within the
municipal boundaries of the village of Golf. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
7-1-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any manner with any water
main, service pipe, water meter, meter vault, buffalo or shutoff box or any
pipe connection with the water system, or comprising a part of such system, or
to cross connect to any other water system without permission therefor from the
water commission 1 . (Ord., 9-10-1956)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
7-1-13: SHUTOFF OF WATER:
   A.   Nonpayment Of Bills: In case of the failure of any person to pay the
water rate charged against any building, structure or premises owned or
occupied by him, or in his possession, charge or control, the water on said
premises may be shut off within ten (10) days after notification, and may not
be turned on until all bills and claims by the village shall have been paid in
full, including a charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus the direct cost
to the village, for both shutting off and turning on the water on all such
premises; and in all cases, the owners of the property shall be held for all
claims until paid; and it shall be lawful for the water superintendent or his
representative to shut off or withhold the supply of water from such premises
without any liability whatsoever against the village or against himself. (Ord.,
3-9-1970; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
   B.   Improper Use: If, after the water supply shall have been turned on to
any building, structure or premises, it shall be found by the water
superintendent or any other officer or employee of the water commission that
fraudulent representations have been made by such applicant, or that the water
is being used on such premises for purposes not set forth in the application,
or for purposes prohibited by this chapter, the water superintendent shall have
authority, and it shall be his duty, to cut off and stop the supply of water to
such building, structure or premises forthwith; and the water service shall not
be restored until the proper fees are paid and the objectionable features
corrected. (1989 Code)
   C.   Notice Of Lien: In the event that any water bill remains unpaid for
more than ninety (90) days after the date that the bill is due and payable to
the village, the village clerk, or his representative, is authorized, in
accordance with law, to file notice of lien in the office of recorder of deeds
or registrar of titles of Cook County to foreclose the lien, and to sue the
occupant or owner of the real estate to which water has been supplied in a
civil action to recover the charges and penalty due for water service, plus
attorney fees as established by the court. In addition to the charges and
penalty due, the village is entitled to collect the costs of filing the notice
of lien, foreclosing the lien, and all litigation costs incurred in connection
with the collection of the amount due. (Ord. 00-02, 7-10-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-14: WATER FUND:
All revenue or income from the water system shall be kept in a separate fund to
be known as the water fund and shall be used to pay water billing and metering
expenses and vendor water supply charges. (1989 Code; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a class B penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
7-2-2: Administration
7-2-3: Water Conservation Fixtures And Appliances
7-2-4: Emergency Water Use
7-2-5: Chronic Shortage Conditions
7-2-6: Variances
7-2-7: Judicial Appeals
7-2-8: Violations And Penalties
7-2-9: Sprinkling Regulated
7-2-1: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, the provisions expressed
herein shall be held to be the minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the village and shall not be deemed a limitation or
repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
7-2-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The administration of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the water
superintendent. (Ord., 4-13-1981; amd. 1989 Code)
7-2-3: WATER CONSERVATION FIXTURES AND APPLIANCES:
   A.   Commercial Car Wash Facilities: All new commercial car wash facilities
shall be equipped with an approved water recycling system on both the wash and
rinse water units. All existing commercial car wash facilities shall be
equipped with such recycling systems when the systems are replaced.
   B.   Pressure Reduction Valves: Pressure reduction valves shall be required
on all supply inlets where the pressure regularly exceeds sixty (60) pounds per
square inch.
   C.   Water Meters: All new water services shall be metered. In the case of
new single-family dwelling attached and multiple-family dwelling units, the
water service lines from the exterior water main to the structure containing
the dwelling units shall be metered.
   D.   Water Softeners: No new residential water softeners may use more than
seventy five (75) gallons during the entire regeneration cycle and must be
sized to regenerate no more than three (3) times per week. (Ord., 4-13-1981;
amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Sewer Flushing: Flushing of sanitary sewers with potable water shall be
performed through the use of a high velocity type sewer jet. (Ord., 6-9-1980)
   F.   Air Conditioning: Air conditioning in all new construction and in all
new remodeling shall be closed system. (Ord., 7-14-1982)
7-2-4: EMERGENCY WATER USE:
Emergency procedures in the event of a natural disaster, conflagration or major
accident will involve the actions listed in this section for the protection of
public health and property.
   A.   Shutoffs: All mains and curb stops in the affected area not needed for
emergency service will be shut off by water utility personnel during rescue
operations and prior to cleanup activities.
   B.   Salvage: All meters, fire hydrants and other water utility service
equipment will be protected against further damage during cleanup operations,
salvaged and returned to stocks for inspection, repair and reuse.
   C.   Sanitary Measures:
      1.   Chlorination: In the event service mains are ruptured or are
suspected of having been damaged, water utility personnel may increase the
dosage of chlorine in treated potable water. Public notices will be given of
this action, together with the expected duration.
      2.   Boiling Water: In the event the safety or integrity of potable water
service is compromised by line breaks or equipment malfunctions, citizens will
be advised to boil their water used for potable purposes. Public notice of this
recommended action, together with boiling instructions will be given. Police
and other municipal employees and equipment may be employed in making
announcements in the affected area, posting of public notices and issuing news
releases.
   D.   Damaged Meters, Billing: Whenever water meters are damaged or
destroyed, billings for water consumed since the last meter readings will be
based on prorated estimates of past consumption during the same season of the
previous year. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
7-2-5: CHRONIC SHORTAGE CONDITIONS:
Procedures described in this section are for circumstances related to the
development of chronic shortage situations such as seasonal water shortages,
pressure drops or increased consumption.
   A.   Declaration Of Chronic Shortage: The declaration of a chronic shortage
situation will be issued by the village president or water commissioner,
explaining the situation, the expected duration (if such is reasonably
possible), the sequential actions which will take place and the penalties for
violations. The actions will remain in effect until rescinded.
The declaration of a chronic shortage situation will be preceded and followed
by a wide based public relations program, utilizing all communication media,
designed to reach all citizens ranging from school children to senior citizens,
industries and commercial enterprises. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
   B.   Lawn And Garden Watering: Watering of lawns and gardens initially will
be restricted to between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. Occupants with even numbered residences or other structures will be
permitted to water lawns and gardens on even numbered days, and occupants of
odd numbered residences or other structures on odd numbered days. By
administrative proclamation, following the issuance of the initial declaration,
all lawn and garden watering may be prohibited if conditions warrant. (Ord., 4-
13-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Swimming Pools: The refilling of swimming pools will be prohibited
until further notice.
   D.   Municipal Conservation Programs: All municipal departments will be
enjoined to restrict activities calling for heavy water consumption. Included
in this category are the testing and clearing of fire hydrants, the cleaning of
water mains, the conduct of fire drills, street washing, sewer flushing and the
watering of public areas. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
   E.   Major Industrial And Commercial Water Users: The water superintendent
will review water consumption records and identify the major industrial and
commercial water users. The latter will be consulted in advance and their
assistance solicited for the development of alternative water conservation
measures which may be voluntarily implemented during shortage situations. When
a shortage arises, these heavy water users will be required to implement the
previously prepared plans to such reasonably practical degrees as will not
impose serious economic hardships. (Ord., 4-13-1981; amd. 1989 Code)
   F.   Increasing Block Water Rates: In the event of prolonged and serious
shortages, the village president may institute a previously developed, adopted
and publicized program which prescribes increasing block rates for water
consumed over preestablished levels. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
7-2-6: VARIANCES:
Variances from the regulatory standards of this chapter may be granted in
accordance with the requirements noted below. No variance shall be granted
unless the applicant for the variance can demonstrate that:
   A.   An exceptional economic or other hardship would result without the
variance;
   B.   The relief granted is the minimum necessary;
   C.   There will be no additional threat to public health, welfare or safety
or the creation of a nuisance; and
   D.   No additional public expense will result. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
7-2-7: JUDICIAL APPEALS:
Any party shall have the right to appeal decisions of the village pertaining to
this chapter before the circuit court of Cook County. (Ord., 4-13-1981)
7-2-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including conditions and safeguards established in connection
with variances or special use permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter, or who fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-2 of this code, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All such
costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord., 4-13-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
7-2-9: SPRINKLING REGULATED:
   A.   Water Use: No person shall draw water from the village's water system
for sprinkling yards, lawns, or flower and vegetable gardens within or outside
the village except as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2009-14, 10-19-2009)
   B.   Use Of Automatic Sprinkling Devices Restricted: During the period May
15 through September 15 of each calendar year, all residential, industrial,
commercial and institutional properties located within the village shall be
precluded from the use of automatic sprinkling devices: 1) on consecutive days,
and 2) at any time between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. "Automated sprinkling devices" shall be defined as any
built in underground sprinkling systems, any mechanical device designed for
dispensing water which is attached to a garden hose or water outlet and runs
continuously or on a timed cycle and any related devices whether predesigned
for lawn or garden sprinkling or modified for such use. To implement the ban on
watering on consecutive days, the water commissioner or village president may
issue rules restricting lawn sprinkling on odd or even days only, according to
the address of each property in the village. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-8-2015)
   C.   Exemptions From Lawn Watering Restrictions: Handheld sprinkling devices
such as garden hoses used to water grass, flowers, vegetables or shrubbery
shall be exempt from the provisions of subsection B of this section.
   D.   Water Commissioner Or Village President May Implement Temporary Or
Emergency Outside Watering Ban: Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
section, the water commissioner or village president shall be authorized to
further restrict or ban all outside water uses if, in the water commissioner's
or village president's opinion, an emergency water shortage exists or is
expected to occur within the near future.
   E.   Persons Affected: All persons or users of water within or outside of
the village using water supplied through the village's water mains shall be
subject to the provisions of this section.
   F.   Penalties: Violators of the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the penalties in accordance with title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Any
property accruing four (4) or more violations within a single watering season
shall be subject to water shutoff by the president and village board of
trustees. (Ord. 2009-14, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Applications For Sewer Connections And Taps
7-3-2: Construction Regulations
7-3-3: Prohibition Of Illicit Discharge
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: APPLICATIONS FOR SEWER CONNECTIONS AND TAPS:
No sewer connection to the village sewer system shall be allowed to any
structure, building or premises, nor shall any person be permitted to tap into
any village sewer for any purpose whatsoever without an approved written
application authorized by the village engineer. Such application shall be
submitted to the sewer commissioner and be accompanied by a tap-on fee payment
of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (2003 Code)
7-3-2: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sewer Specifications: Connection to the village sewers can be made only
at the stubs provided for that purpose as indicated on the village sewer maps.
Sewers must be of glazed tile, bell end, with cemented joints. (Ord., 9-10-
1956)
   B.   Excavations: Sewer lines can be bored under street pavements but when
so done must be backfilled with CA-6 aggregate for four feet (4') each side of
pavement. Cut pavements must be replaced to the depth of the existing road with
bituminous surface course material placed upon the trench backfill, and surplus
excavation spoil removed. (Ord. 04-07, 10-11-2004)
   C.   Bond Required For Plumbing And Sewer Contractors: All plumbing or sewer
contractors shall be required to post a performance bond of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) before sewer construction is started 1 . Permits to tap
into any village sewer will be issued in writing by the sewer commissioner only
after a proper bond is posted. All plumbing and sewer contractors must be
preapproved by the village. (Ord., 9-10-1956; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
The performance bond will be refunded in full only when the sewer work is
completed to the satisfaction of both the water superintendent and the building
commissioner. The refund must be approved by the village board of trustees.
(Ord., 9-10-1956)
   D.   Notification Process: The permittee/applicant shall notify the village
building commissioner of the time and date of the proposed sanitary service
connection. The building commissioner shall collect the connection fee and
notify the village engineer to inspect the work. A minimum of seventy two (72)
hours' notice is required. (Ord. 04-07, 10-11-2004)
   E.   Compliance With IEPA Mandates:
      1.   Downspouts and rainwater leaders shall not be connected to any
sanitary or combined sewer within the village. Downspouts and rainwater leaders
may be connected to separate storm sewers with the prior approval of the
building commissioner.
      2.   Any new construction or development, which is tributary to an
existing or proposed combined sewer system shall be designed to minimize and/or
delay inflow contribution to the combined sewer system. Techniques, methods, or
devices that delay or restrict inflow into the sewer system shall be
incorporated into any proposed construction and shall be approved by the
village engineer prior to installation. All restriction or delaying methods
shall be designed in accordance with all stormwater management requirements and
policies of the metropolitan water reclamation district of greater Chicago.
      3.   Upon installation of a new storm sewer in combined sewer areas, all
inflow sources that exist in immediate proximity of the new storm sewer shall
be connected to the new storm sewer within one year of completion. The inflow
sources shall be completely disconnected from the combined sewer and the
remaining connection to the combined sewer shall be permanently abandoned to
prevent any future connection of inflow sources.
      4.   All new buildings shall include a domestic waste connection
distinctly separate from the building inflow connection in order to facilitate
a disconnection to the combined sewer system should a storm sewer become
available. Each building connection location shall be recorded on the final
plat of and shall indicate the size and depth of the connection. Any connection
not in service shall be properly capped and sealed to prevent any inflow from
entering the system. (Ord. 09-07, 12-10-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-1-6C of this title.
7-3-3: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGE:
   A.   As used in this section, all definitions contained in section 502 of
the clean water act, 40 CFR 122, and 35 Illinois administrative code 309 shall
apply and are incorporated herein by reference. For convenience, simplified
explanations of some regulatory/statutory definitions have been provided, but
in the event of a conflict, the definition found in the referenced statute or
regulation takes precedence.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater, except discharges authorized under
an NPDES permit and discharges resulting from firefighting activities.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM: The conveyance or system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, village streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) located in the village and
which convey stormwater to any surface water of the state of Illinois.
STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff and
drainage.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause nonstormwater to
enter the municipal separate storm sewer system resulting in an illicit
discharge. Certain instances of nonstormwater, when allowed pursuant to the
NPDES permit, do not constitute violations of this section. Such instances may
include the following:
Air conditioning condensate,
Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges,
Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges,
Discharges from potable water sources,
Discharges or flows from firefighting activities,
Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
Footing drains,
Foundation drains,
Ground water infiltration,
Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation),
Landscape irrigation water,
Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous materials have
not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed),
Pumped ground water,
Residual street wash water,
Rising ground waters,
Routine external building washdown which does not use detergents,
Springs,
Storm sewer cleaning water,
Water from crawl space pumps,
Water from individual residential car washing, and
Water line and fire hydrant flushing. (Ord. 4/13A, 4-13-2009)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code; amd. Ord. 4/13A, 4-13-2009)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Compliance Required
7-4-2: Inspections And Tests By The Village
7-4-3: Procedures For Compliance
7-4-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Definitions:
BACKFLOW: Water, wastes or other contaminants entering a public water system
due to a reversal of flow.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION (OR CROSS CONTROL CONNECTION) DEVICE: Any device, method,
or type of construction intended to prevent backflow into a potable water
system. All devices used for backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the
standards of the Illinois plumbing code, the Illinois environmental protection
agency, and the village.
CONNECTION: Any arrangement of piping or appurtenances attached to a public
water supply system.
CROSS CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which a backflow could occur.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR (CCCDI): Any person certified by the
state of Illinois environmental protection agency to perform cross connection
device inspections.
   B.   Prohibited Connections: Connections between the public water supply
system and other systems or equipment containing water or other substances are
prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control devices or
methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper operation on a
continuing basis. Specifically, fire protection systems and irrigation systems
which contain installed piping and are connected to the public water supply
system are prohibited except when and where approved backflow prevention is
installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper operation on a continuing
basis. No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion of
a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological and
chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis. There shall be no
arrangement or connection by which an unsafe substance may enter a water
supply. It shall be unlawful for any owner to have on their property any
connection in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Duty To Install Backflow Prevention Devices: All plumbing installed
within the village shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing
code. If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of
the water superintendent an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the water superintendent will
give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code and all applicable location regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the Illinois plumbing code and local regulations.
   D.   Duty To Prevent Backflow; Testing: It is the responsibility of the
water customer and owner to prevent backflow into the public water system by
ensuring that:
      1.   Prevention: All cross connections are removed, or approved cross
connection control devices are installed for control of backflow and back
siphonage.
      2.   Installation: Cross connection control devices shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Inspection: Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually thereafter (or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer) by a person approved by the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency as a cross connection control device
inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical
testing in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Annual inspections
shall be documented on approved inspection forms and submitted no later than
June 30 of each calendar year to the water superintendent. Records submitted to
the water superintendent shall be available for inspection. Each device shall
have a tag attached listing the date of most recent test, name of CCCDI, and
type and date of repairs. Every owner shall maintain for a period of five (5)
years, a maintenance log for each cross connection device which shall include:
date of each test; name and approval number of person performing the test; test
results; repairs or servicing required; repairs and date completed; and
servicing performed and date completed.
      4.   Replacement: All backflow prevention devices plumbing installed
within the village shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing
code. Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall immediately be repaired or replaced at the
expense of the owner. Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the water superintendent, or his or her designees.
Notwithstanding the above inspection provisions, the owner's obligations to
obtain inspections and furnish records to the water superintendent shall be
performed by the village, if the owner does not opt out of the village
inspection program described below.
   E.   Connection To Private Or Auxiliary Supply: No person shall establish or
permit to be established, or maintain or permit to be maintained, any
connection whereby a private auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the
regular public water supply of the village can enter the supply or distribution
system of the village, unless such private auxiliary or emergency water supply
and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by
the water superintendent and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
(Ord. 2012-05, 9-10-2012)
7-4-2: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS BY THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Surveys: It shall be the duty of the water superintendent to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2)
years, or as often as the water superintendent shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years.
   B.   Entry Rights: The approved cross connection control device inspector
shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and that
the water superintendent or his authorized agent (such as a CCCDI) shall have
the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the
purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the
required cross connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the water superintendent
any information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information or access to
property, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the water
superintendent, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter.
   C.   Facilitation Of Annual Inspection: The water superintendent is
authorized to solicit proposals for a CCCDI to perform annual testing for
owners with backflow prevention devices. The water superintendent shall
endeavor to inform owners of the availability of such services and the terms
under which they are offered. Each owner consenting to such terms shall have a
contract with and obligation to pay directly the CCCDI on such terms. Owners
not electing to participate in such program shall select their own CCCDI to
comply with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-05, 9-10-2012)
7-4-3: PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Failure To Provide Inspection: Any owner failing to obtain the required
annual inspection and to furnish the results of such testing to the water
superintendent on or before July 15 shall be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   B.   Termination Of Water Service:
      1.   The water superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the village water
supply distribution mains.
      2.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
water superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination
of the village's water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by
written notification of the cause of disconnection.
      3.   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected
to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the village's
water supply.
      4.   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, until all fines are paid and until a reconnection fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus the direct cost to the village is paid.
      5.   Neither the village, water superintendent nor their agents shall be
liable to any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which may
result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the
terms of this section, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
   C.   Costs Of Cleanup:
      1.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
      2.   In the event the costs of cleaning up the potable water supply
system are not paid within thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill for
such services, such costs shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be
delinquent and thereafter such delinquency shall constitute a lien upon the
real estate of the owner responsible for back siphoned or back pressured
material or contamination occurring through an illegal cross connection or an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired cross connection device or a
device which has been bypassed, provided that the water superintendent first
notifies the owner in writing of the delinquency and grants the owner an
additional fifteen (15) days from date of the written notification to pay the
cleanup charges in full. If the delinquent bill is not paid within the time
provided in the written notice of the water superintendent, then the village is
hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien in the office of
the recorder of deeds of Cook County, Illinois, which said notice of such lien
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out the name(s) of the owner(s) of
the real estate, a description of the owner's real estate, the amounts of
monies due, and the date or dates when such amount or amounts became
delinquent, and the filing of such statement in the aforesaid office shall be
deemed notice for the payment of such charges for such service. In all cases
where a lien has been recorded, recording charges and legal fees, as set forth
from time to time in the fee schedule, shall be charged in addition to the
delinquent cleanup charge. The failure of the village to record such notice of
any such lien shall not affect the right of the village to foreclose the lien
for the delinquent bill or the right to pursue any other legal remedy.
      3.   If the cleanup charges are not paid within one hundred eighty (180)
days after rendition of the bill, the lien herein provided for may be
foreclosed in the same manner as a mortgage foreclosure by appropriate legal
action in the circuit court of Cook County. The fees and costs incurred by the
village to prosecute such foreclosure action, including all attorney fees
(including the initial fee assessed in the fee schedule for preparation and
recording of the lien), fees for the village engineer and other opinion
witnesses, costs of depositions and court reporters and court filing fees,
shall constitute additional delinquent cleanup charges for which the village
shall be entitled to receive payment. (Ord. 2012-05, 9-10-2012)
CHAPTER 5
WATER AND SEWER PAYMENTS PRIOR TO TRANSFERS OF REAL ESTATE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Responsibility For Payment
7-5-3: Liens
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of the
beneficiaries of such land trust.
DEED: All documents transferring or reflecting the transfer of legal title,
equitable title, or both legal title and equitable title to real property, or
the beneficial interest in a land trust.
PERSON: A title holder of property within the village, including, but not
limited to, any natural person, lessee of property, person in control of
property, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator, assignee, trust in
perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint venture, club, company,
joint stock company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise.
RECORDATION: The recording of any deed or assignment of beneficial interest in
a land trust with the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County. (Ord. 03-
02, 5-19-2003)
7-5-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   Any person that is supplied with water and sanitary sewer services by
the village shall be responsible for the payment of all water and sewer charges
registered by the meter serving the property owned or otherwise controlled by
that person.
   B.   Upon the transfer of title to real estate or any interest therein
located within the village, as evidenced by the recordation of a deed,
mortgage, trust deed or other conveyance by any person or by the delivery of
any deed or assignment of interest of said real property, whether investing the
person in control with the beneficial interest in or legal title to said
property or merely the possession or use thereof for any purpose, or to secure
future payment of money or the future transfer of any such real property, the
title holder or person in control of said property shall immediately before
such transfer notify the village clerk of the village and make application for
and secure a final reading of the water meter serving the property which is the
subject of such transfer, and shall thereupon make full payment to the village
in the form of a cashier's or certified check for any and all water and sewer
charges then determined to be due, plus outstanding penalties for delinquent
payments, if any.
   C.   Upon application to the village clerk and payment of all charges for
water and sewer services, a certificate of payment ("certificate of payment")
shall be prepared and shall be issued by the village clerk to the title holder
of the property, certifying that all water and sewer charges, plus outstanding
penalties for delinquent payments, if any, have been paid in full.
   D.   The village clerk shall charge twenty dollars ($20.00) for the
preparation of the certificate of payment.
   E.   The certificate of payment must be filed for recordation along with the
deed of conveyance, or assignment of beneficial interest, with the recorder of
deeds of Cook County, Illinois. The certificate of payment shall be invalid if
issued more than twenty (20) days prior to such recordation. The certificate of
payment shall be in form and substance as set forth on exhibit 1 attached to
ordinance 03-02. (Ord. 03-02, 5-19-2003)
7-5-3: LIENS:
   A.   Any person who shall accept a transfer of title to real estate or
beneficial interest in a trust holding title to real estate located within the
village, who does not receive evidence of the payment of water and sewer
charges in the form of a certificate of payment, shall have constructive notice
of the nonpayment of such water and sewer charges, and such person shall
thereupon become liable for any unpaid water and sewer charges, including
payment in full for all unpaid water and sewer charges accrued up to and
including the date of closing, and the property acquired by such person shall
be subject to a lien for the amount of all unpaid water and sewer charges, plus
outstanding penalties for delinquent payments, if any.
   B.   The village shall have the right to foreclose on the lien in accordance
with the laws applicable to foreclosures, and to include, in addition to the
unpaid water and sewer charges, statutory interest, reasonable attorney fees
and costs incurred as part of the foreclosure proceedings. (Ord. 03-02, 5-19-
2003)
CHAPTER 6
UTILITY EASEMENTS AND PRIVATE STORM SEWER CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Removal And Restoration Of Owner Improvements Located In Utility
Easements Granted To The Village
7-6-2: Private Storm Sewer Connections
7-6-3: Interpretation; Appeals
7-6-4: Penalty
7-6-1: REMOVAL AND RESTORATION OF OWNER IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED IN UTILITY
EASEMENTS GRANTED TO THE VILLAGE:
The Village reserves the right to relocate or remove (or require the owner to
relocate or remove) any landscaping or other improvements on such owner's lot
that are located within water, storm and/or sanitary sewer easements granted to
the Village, when deemed necessary or useful by the Village to perform
maintenance, repair and replacements of the utility facilities located in such
easements, including directional underground drilling, trenching, repaving or
replacements, whether performed by the Village or its agents or contractors. In
the exercise of the foregoing powers, the Village shall have the right to
relocate or remove landscaping, trees, structures and other improvements.
Before proceeding with the removal or relocation of improvements impeding its
operations, the Village shall notify and give the owner a reasonable
opportunity, except in cases of emergency when any delay will exacerbate the
situation giving rise to the need to remove or relocate the improvements, or
when the health or safety of the Village residents is in issue, to protect such
of the owner's improvements as may safely be removed or relocated. After
performing any maintenance, repair and replacements of the utility facilities
located in such easements, the Village shall repair and restore the surface of
the easement area as follows: a) if the easement area is located in the street
easement and right-of-way along the frontage of such owner's lot, including a
private road easement area, the Village's restoration duties shall be governed
by the rules pertaining to street easements set forth in section
6-1-5 of this Code; and b) if the easement area is located elsewhere on such
owner's lot, the Village shall provide seeding and/or sodding of the area for
establishing or re-establishing grass turf, but the Village shall not be
required to replant, and shall have no duty to reimburse such owner for the
costs of relocating or replacing, the mature vegetation, trees, ponds,
structures and other owner improvements that were located in the utility
easement.
(Ord. 2017-01, 4-10-2017)
7-6-2: PRIVATE STORM SEWER CONNECTIONS
   A.   For purposes of this section: “private storm sewer” means a storm water
service pipe installed underground in private property and designed to convey
storm water runoff by means of a direct connection into a public storm water
main; and “public storm water main” means any storm water mains and
appurtenances owned by the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect a private storm sewer
for discharge into a public storm water main without first having made
application for a storm water connection permit to the village on forms
provided by the village. Owners of record shall submit such application, which
shall state fully all purposes for which the storm water connection is desired
and where it is desired to make such connection, the path of the private storm
sewer, information concerning the size and material of the private storm sewer,
the number of properties utilizing the private storm sewer and points of
private connections, and such other engineering plans or detail as the village
shall request. The application shall include documentation evidencing that the
applicant has obtained the written consent of all owners of private properties
through which such private storm sewer will traverse before making connection
to the public storm water main. If required by the village engineer, the
application shall be supplemented by plans and specifications, certified by a
professional engineer. Village fees for review and issuance of a storm water
connection permit shall be as set forth from time to time in the village fee
schedule.
   C.   The issuance of a storm water connection permit and performance of work
thereunder shall not create liability on the part of the village or any officer
or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder. Each owner
whose property is served by a private storm sewer that is connected to a public
storm water main is bound by the following conditions, whether or not any
permit previously issued for such work or hereafter issued for such work
contains these conditions, which are deemed mandatory conditions of maintaining
a direct connection by an owner of a private storm sewer into a public storm
water main:
      1.   The village retains the right, at any time, for any reason, upon ten
(10) days notice to the owner, to disconnect the private storm sewer from the
public storm water main, without any liability whatsoever to the owner or any
other person whom such owner has allowed to tie into the owner’s private storm
sewer. In case of an emergency, the village may proceed with disconnection
without prior notice to the owner but shall endeavor to provide written notice
to the owner within 48 hours after such disconnection. Notice to the owner
shall be sufficient if mailed to the address of the owner’s property indicated
in the storm water connection permit, by United States certified or registered
mail, or by personal delivery at such address.
      2.   Each owner having installed a private storm sewer that is connected
to a public storm water main shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
village, its agents, servants, and employees and each of them against and hold
it and them harmless from any and all lawsuits, claims, demands, liabilities,
losses and expenses, including court costs and attorney’s fees, for or on
account of any injury to any person, or any death at any time resulting from
such injury, or any damage to property, which may arise or which may be alleged
to have arisen out of or in connection with the connection of the private storm
sewer into the public storm water main. The foregoing indemnity shall apply
except if such injury, death or damage is caused directly by the willful and
wanton conduct of the village, its agents, servants, or employees or any other
person indemnified hereunder.
(Ord. 2023-01, 5-8-2023)
7-6-3: INTERPRETATION; APPEALS:
When necessary or useful to implement the provisions of this chapter, the
village may obtain and rely upon the recommendations of the village engineer.
An owner may appeal in writing to the village board of any decision made by the
agents or employees of the village under the provisions of this chapter within
thirty (30) days of such decision being rendered.
(Ord. 2023-01, 5-8-2023)
7-6-4: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of up to $750 for each such violation, and a separate and distinct
violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each day that such violation
exists.
(Ord. 2023-01, 5-8-2023)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose And Scope
8-1-2: Building Codes Adopted
8-1-3: Building Permits; Duties Of Building Commissioner
8-1-4: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-1-5: Fees, Charges And Deposits
8-1-6: Permit Time Limits
8-1-7: Plumbing Regulations In Basements
8-1-8: Penalties
8-1-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
This title is adopted for the purpose of establishing the standards of
construction for any and all types of buildings and other structures in the
village, and otherwise regulating matters pertinent to the remodeling,
repairing, moving and demolition of existing structures in the village. This
title covers all matters dealing with the foregoing and shall be controlling in
all such matters. No construction, remodeling, repairing, moving or demolition
of any building or other structure shall, after the effective date hereof, be
undertaken unless the provisions of this title are strictly complied with. When
used in this title, the phrase "this code" refers to the Golf village code, as
distinguished from the published codes adopted by reference in section
8-1-2 of this chapter. The terms "building", "structure" and "lot" shall have
the meanings given in section
9-1-3 of this code. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-1-2: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Codes Adopted: There are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
in this section the following building, fire, mechanical, plumbing, life
safety, property maintenance and other published codes set forth below. All
construction, remodeling and repairing for which a permit is applied and is
actually undertaken, pursuant to the provisions of this title, shall be in
compliance with the rules and regulations and codes referred to above and any
other applicable village ordinances, and all workmanship and material shall
comply with the standards therein specified; and said rules and regulations and
codes shall be deemed to be as much a part of this title as if contained
herein.
      1.   Building Codes:
The 2006 edition of the international residential code for one- and two-family
dwellings, adopted with the amendments set forth in subsection B1, "Appendix
1", of this section.
The 2006 edition of the international building code (all other construction).
The 2006 edition of the international property maintenance code.
The 2006 edition of the international fuel gas code.
The 2006 edition of the international energy conservation code.
      2.   Mechanical Codes:
The 2006 edition of the international mechanical code.
      3.   Plumbing Codes:
The 2006 edition of the international plumbing code. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
State of Illinois plumbing code, adopted with the amendments set forth in
subsection B4, "Appendix 4", of this section. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009; amd.
Ord. 2016-01, 1-11-2016)
      4.   Electrical Codes:
The 2005 edition of the national electric code, adopted with the amendments set
forth in subsection B2, "Appendix 2", of this section.
      5.   Fire Prevention Codes:
The 2006 edition of the NFPA 101, life safety code.
The 2006 edition of the international fire code, adopted with the amendments
set forth in subsection B3, "Appendix 3", of this section.
   B.   Amendments To Codes:
      1.   Appendix 1:
   Amendments To 2006 Edition Of The 2006 Edition
   Of The International Residential Code
   For One- And Two-Family Dwellings
The 2006 edition of the international residential code for one- and two-family
dwellings is hereby adopted with the following amendments:
Section R101.1 Title. Amend to read as follows:
These provisions shall be known as the residential code for one- and two-
family dwellings of the village of Golf, and shall be cited as such and will be
referred to herein as "this code."
Section R102.4 Reference Codes And Standards. Amend to read as follows:
The codes and standards referenced in the code shall be considered part of the
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
Where differences occur between provisions of this code and referenced
standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions
of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing and
manufacturer's instructions shall apply. The following codes and standards are
not adopted by reference:
IPC-2006 international plumbing code
IPSDC-2006 international private sewage disposal code
IWUIC-2006 international wildlife-urban interface code
IZC-2006 international zoning code
Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R105.3.1.1 Substantially Improved Or Substantially Damaged Existing
Buildings In Areas Prone To Flooding. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R106.1.3 Information For Construction In Areas Prone To Flooding.
Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R109.1.3 Flood Plain Inspection. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R112 Board Of Appeals. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section 113.4 Violation Penalties. Amend by adding the following:
Fines shall be as provided in section
8-1-8 of the Golf village code or the annual fee schedule, for any given
offense.
Section 113.4 Violation Penalties. Add new subsection 113.4.1 Work Prior To
Permit:
Any person, firm, or corporation who starts construction prior to the issuance
of a building permit shall be subject to a fine as provided in the annual fee
schedule, at the discretion of the building official.
Section 202 Definitions. Add the following definitions:
Basement recreation room shall mean a room used primarily for living or
recreation that does not include facilities for cooking, dining or sleeping as
defined as a habitable space.
Manufactured building shall mean any building that is of closed construction
and is made or assembled in manufacturing facilities on or off the building
site for installation, or for assembly and installation of the building site.
Mobile homes, park trailers, or recreation vehicles are not included in the
definition. For the purpose of this code, manufactured houses are prohibited
except where replacing an existing manufactured home within the same footprint.
Section R304 Minimum Room Area. Add new subsection R304.5 Access:
Each bedroom shall have access to a bathroom without passing through another
bedroom and each habitable room shall have access to each other habitable room
without passing through a bedroom or bathroom.
Section R309.2 Separation Required. Amend to read as follows:
The garage shall be separated from the residence and its attic area by not less
than 5/8" gypsum board applied to the garage side. Garages beneath habitable
rooms shall be separated from all habitable rooms above by not less than 5/8"
type X gypsum board or equivalent. Where the separation is a floor-ceiling
assembly, the structure supporting the separation shall also be protected by
not less than 5/8" gypsum board or equivalent. Garages located less than 3'
from a dwelling unit on the same lot shall be protected with not less than 5/8"
gypsum board applied to the interior side of exterior walls that are within
this area. Openings in these walls shall be regulated by section 309.1. This
provision does not apply to garage walls that are perpendicular to the adjacent
dwelling unit wall.
Section R309.2 Separation Required. Add subsection 309.2.1 Spill Containment:
The sill of all doors between garages or carports and interior spaces shall be
raised not less than six (6) inches above the garage or carport floor.
Section R322.1 Scope. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R323.3 Accessibility. Amend to read as follows:
Elevators or platform lifts that are part of an accessible route required by
the Illinois accessibility code, shall comply with ICC A17.1.
Section R324 Flood Resistant Construction. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R402.1 Wood Foundations. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section 403 Footings. Amend by deleting reference to wood foundations.
Section 403.3.1 Foundations Adjoining Frost Protected Shallow Foundations.
Delete this section in its entirety.
Section 403.3.1.1 Attachment To Unheated Slab On Grade Structures. Delete this
section in its entirety.
Section R403.3.1.2 Attachment To Heated Structure. Delete this section in its
entirety.
Section 404.1.8 Rubble Stone Masonry. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R405.2 Wood Foundations. Delete this section in its entirety.
Section R406.3 Damproofing For Wood Foundations. Delete this section in its
entirety.
Chapters 25 through 32 Plumbing. Delete these chapters in their entirety.
Chapters 33 through 42 Electrical. Delete these chapters in their entirety.
Appendix D. Recommended Procedure For Safety Inspection Of An Existing
Appliance Installation. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix E. Manufactured Housing Used As Dwellings. Delete this appendix in its
entirety.
Appendix H. Patio Covers. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix I. Private Sewage Disposal. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix L. Permit Fees. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix M. Home Day Care R-3 Occupancy. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix N. Venting Methods. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix O. Gray Water Recycling Systems. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix P. Sprinkling. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
Appendix Q. ICC International Residential Code Electrical Provisions/National
Electrical Code Cross-Reference. Delete this appendix in its entirety.
      2.   Appendix 2:
   Amendments To 2005 Edition
   Of The National Electric Code
The 2005 edition of the national electrical code is amended as follows:
Article 100 Definitions. Add the following definitions:
Alter shall mean to make different, modify, or vary.
Electrical equipment shall mean conductors and equipment installed for the
utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat, or power, but does not
include radio apparatus or equipment for the wireless reception of sounds and
signals, nor does it include apparatus, conductors and other equipment
installed for or by public utilities, including common carriers which are under
the jurisdiction of the state commerce commission, for use in their operation
as public utilities.
Fixture shall mean any energy consuming electrical unit which is made a
permanent and integral part of the electrical lighting and/or power system.
Electrical motors of one-half horse power and less, and generators and
transformers of one-half kva and less are to be considered as fixtures.
Clusters and drops shall be counted as one fixture.
Outlet shall mean a point in the wiring system at which energy is taken to
supply fixtures, receptacles, appliances, motors not larger than one-half
horsepower, generators and transformers not larger than one-half kva, energy
consuming equipment generally and for the control of other outlets.
Repair shall mean to restore to a good operating condition as in the original
state, without alteration.
Article 110.24 Identification Of The Electrical Contractor. Add this section:
The name of the electrical contractor performing the work on all new electrical
services shall be displayed on the service panel cover.
Article 210 Branch Circuits. Amend by adding the following:
Commercial or industrial office areas shall have receptacles installed within
six feet of doorways and every twelve feet on wall spaces two feet or greater
in length.
Article 210.5 Multiwire Branch Circuits. Amend by adding section 210.4(d)
Identification Of The Underground Conductor as follows:
The means of identification of each system phase conductor, wherever
accessible, shall be color coded for 277/480 volt (brown, orange, yellow, with
gray as neutral conductor) and for 120/208 volt (black, red, blue, with white
as neutral conductor).
Article 210.8 Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection For Personnel. Amend
section (A) by adding:
When feed through GFCI receptacles are used, they shall feed only receptacles
on the same floor.
Article 210.8(B) Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection For Personnel.
Amend by adding the following:
Bathroom switches and receptacles shall not be located within 30 inches
measured horizontally, from the outside edge of a bathtub, whirlpool tub,
shower or similar fixture. This requirement shall not apply to sink basins.
Wall mounted lighting fixtures shall not be located within 30 inches measured
horizontally, from the outside edge of a bathtub, whirlpool tub, shower or
similar fixture unless provided with GFCI protection.
Article 210.8 Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection For Personnel. Amend
section (B) by adding new subsection 6:
All 125 volt single-phase 15-20 ampere receptacles installed at sink or wet
locations shall have ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel.
Article 210.12(B) Dwelling Unit Bedrooms. Amend by adding the following:
Exception No. 1: The location of the arc-fault circuit-interrupter shall be
permitted to be at other than the origination of the branch circuit in
compliance with (a) and (b).
                  (a)   The arc-fault circuit-interrupter installed within six
(6) feet of the branch circuit over current devices.
                  (b)   The circuit conductors between the branch circuit
overcurrent device and the arc-fault circuit-interrupter shall be installed in
a metal raceway or a cable with a metal sheath.
Exception No. 2: Where RMC, IMC, or EMT, meeting the requirements of section
250.118 using a metal outlet and junction boxes, is installed for the portion
of the branch circuit between the branch circuit overcurrent device and the
first outlet, it shall be permitted to install a combination AFCI at the first
outlet to provide protection for the remaining portion of the circuit.
Article 210.52(A) General Provisions. Amend by adding the following:
            (1)   All finished rooms, lofts, foyers or similar rooms and part
of a renovated area which are greater than 49 square feet in size shall be
provided with receptacles installed in accordance with this article.
Exception: Clothes closets that are located directly off a bedroom space.
            (2)   Counter top and work bench areas, other than kitchen counter
tops shall be served by at least one receptacle for every six feet of length or
fraction thereof.
Article 210.52(G) Basements And Garages. Amend by adding the following:
In the construction of, or an addition to, attached and detached garages, at
least one lamp holder, one switch and one GFCI receptacle shall be required.
Article 230 Services. Amend by adding section 230.1(A):
All services shall be installed with an outdoor disconnecting means capable of
being secured to prevent tampering. Services that are 200 amps or less shall
have a single main disconnect. Multiple disconnects in a common enclosure shall
be permitted for services greater than 200 amps.
Article 230 Services. Amend by adding section 230.1(B):
Shop drawings shall be submitted for all services greater than 200 amps at the
time of permit application.
Article 230 Services. Amend by adding section 230.11 Service Entrance
Conductors:
(A) Service entrance conductors shall be installed in rigid metal conduit,
intermediate metal conduit or rigid nonmetallic conduit. The use of a subpanel
shall require the written approval of the director of inspectional services or
his/her designee after submission and approval of complete load calculations.
(B) All service conductors shall be installed underground unless special
permission is granted by the director of inspectional services.
(C) In new residential construction the electrical service shall have a minimum
rating of 200 amps and an electrical distribution panel sized for 40 circuits.
An interior disconnecting means shall be provided in addition to the exterior
disconnect. Fuse box pullouts shall not be used as a service disconnect.
Exception: Electric service upgrades in existing residences shall have a
minimum 100 ampere rating and an electrical distribution panel sized for 30
circuits. Electrical distribution panel replacement shall not constitute a
service upgrade.
(D) In commercial construction an interior disconnecting means shall be
provided in addition to the exterior disconnect. Fuse box pullouts shall not be
used as a service disconnect.
(E) Half-size breakers are not approved for use in new construction. In
existing residential dwelling units half-size breakers are limited to
manufacturer's specifications. Half-size breakers shall not be permitted in
existing commercial or industrial units.
(F) Three-phase circuit panels supplied by three-phase, four wire Delta 120/240
volt service shall not be used to directly supply 120 volt single phase loads.
(G) Service entrances for underground services shall be governed by the
requirements published by Commonwealth Edison entitled "Information And
Requirements For The Supply Of Electric Service."
Article 230.31(B) Minimum Size. Amend to read as follows:
The conductors shall not be smaller than 8 AWG copper or smaller than 2 AWG for
aluminum and copper clad aluminum conductors.
Article 230.43 Wiring Methods For 600 Volts, Nominal, Or Less. Amend to read as
follows:
Service entrance conductors shall be installed in accordance with the
applicable requirements of this code covering the type of wiring methods used
and shall be limited to the following methods:
            (1)   Rigid metal conduit.
            (2)   Intermediate metal conduit.
            (3)   Rigid nonmetallic conduit.
Article 250.50 Grounding Electrode System And Grounding Electrode Conductor.
Amend by adding the following after the first paragraph:
All grounding conductors shall be:
            (1)   Enclosed in a metal raceway or metal conduit;
            (2)   Connected to the first five (5) feet of the metal water pipe
from the point of entrance to the building or structure on the street side of
the water meter;
            (3)   Terminated in a visible and easily accessible location;
            (4)   Tagged with an approved warning tag; and
            (5)   A properly sized bonding jumper shall be installed across the
water meter.
Article 250.62 Grounding Electrode Conductor Material. Amend to read as
follows:
The grounding electrode conductor shall be copper. The use of aluminum or
copper clad aluminum for the purpose of grounding is prohibited. The grounding
electrode conductor shall be solid or stranded, insulated or covered.
Article 310.2(B) Conductor Material. Amend to read as follows:
The use of compact aluminum and copper clad aluminum conductors shall be
prohibited if smaller than 2 AWG.
Article 314.27(D) Boxes At Ceiling-Suspended Paddle Fan Outlets. Amend to read
as follows:
Any outlet box which is being installed in an area that can reasonably
accommodate a ceiling fan shall be identified for ceiling fan support.
Article 320.10 Uses Permitted. Amend to read as follows:
Metal-clad and armored type cable (BX) shall be permitted for remodeling work
where the installation of electric metallic tubing and/or intermediate metal
conduit presents a hardship and is approved by the director of inspectional
services or his/her designee.
Article 324 Flat Conductor Cable: Type FCC. Delete this section.
Article 330.10 Uses Permitted. Amend to read as follows:
Type MC cable shall be permitted for remodeling work where the installation of
electrical metallic tubing and/or intermediate metal conduit presents a
hardship and is approved for use by the director of inspectional services or
his/her designee.
Article 334 Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable: Types NM, NMC, and NMS. Delete this
section.
Article 338 Service-Entrance Cable: Types SE and USE. Delete this section. This
does not apply to USE cable.
Article 340 UF Wiring. Amend to read as follows:
UF wiring is permitted in exterior uses when installed underground only.
Article 348 Flexible Metal Conduit. Amend by adding the following:
Flexible metal conduit shall not exceed six feet in length except by written
approval by the director of inspectional services or his/her designee.
Article 352.10 Rigid Nonmetallic Conduit: Type RNC Subsections (A), (C), (D),
(E), And (F) Use Permitted. Delete these sections.
Article 352.12 Uses Not Permitted. Amend by adding the following section:
(G) Where conduits are placed in concrete cast in place on earth, or in direct
contact with the earth, only galvanized rigid metal conduit, intermediate
conduit or rigid nonmetallic conduit shall be used. Electrical metal conduit,
with fittings approved for immersion in concrete, may be placed in concrete
above grade, with 2 inches of space below the conduit.
Article 358.12 Uses Not Permitted. Amend to read as follows:
The use of listed electrical metal tubing shall be permitted for both exposed
and concealed work. Electrical metal tubing shall not be used:
            (1)   Where, during installation or afterward, it will be subject
to severe physical damage;
            (2)   Where protected from corrosion solely by enamel;
            (3)   In cinder concrete or cinder fill where subject to permanent
moisture unless protected on all sides by a layer of noncinder concrete no less
than two (2) inches thick or unless the tubing is at least 18 inches under the
fill;
            (4)   In any hazardous (classified) location except as permitted by
sections 502.4, 503.3 and 504.20;
            (5)   For the support of fixtures or other equipment except conduit
bodies no larger than the largest trade size of the tubing;
            (6)   In earth or concrete on or below grade. Where practicable,
dissimilar metals in contact anywhere in the system shall be avoided to
eliminate the possibility of galvanic action.
Exception: Aluminum fittings and enclosures shall be permitted to be used with
steel electrical metallic tubing.
Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing. Delete this section.
Article 382 Nonmetallic Extensions. Delete this section.
Article 394 Concealed Knob-And-Tube Wiring. Delete this section.
Article 398 Open Wiring On Insulators. Delete this section.
Article 410.66 Recessed Light Clearances. Amend to read as follows:
Recessed lighting fixtures installed in insulated ceilings are required to be
I.C. type. This requirement cannot be obviated through the removal of
insulation in the vicinity of the lighting luminar.
Article 450.3 Over-Current Protection. Amend to read as follows:
All transformers rated at 150 volts and greater shall have both primary and
secondary load break disconnects located within sight of the transformer.
Article 450.27 Oil-Insulated Transformers Installed Outdoors. Amend to read as
follows:
Space separations shall be no less than five (5) feet horizontally from a
doorway or window and twenty (20) feet from a fire escape except with written
permission of the fire code official or his/her designee.
Article 525.20(G) Protection. Amend to read as follows:
Flexible cords and cables running on the ground where accessible to the public
shall be covered with approved nonconductive mats. Cables and mats shall be
arranged so as not to present a tripping hazard.
Article 600.6(A) Sign Disconnects. Amend to read as follows:
Outdoor disconnects and raceways used in connection with illuminated signage
shall be located in accordance with one of the following methods:
      1.   Within an enclosed building within sight of the sign(s), or
      2.   Behind a parapet wall within sight of the sign(s), or
      3.   Completely enclosed within the sign.
Article 604 Manufactured Wiring Systems. Amend to read as follows:
Manufactured wiring systems shall be permitted for use with furniture systems
only.
Article 680.23(A)(4) Voltage Limitation. Amend to read as follows:
Lighting fixtures installed in swimming pools, fountains, and the like, shall
not operate at more than 15 volts, as measured between conductors.
Article 720 Low Voltage Wiring. Amend by adding the following:
Low voltage wiring shall be installed in conduit in areas made inaccessible by
building construction or where subject to damage.
      3.   Appendix 3:
   Amendments To 2006 Edition
   Of The International Fire Code
The 2006 edition of the international fire code as adopted is amended as
follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Amend to read as follows:
These regulations shall be known as the fire code of the village of Golf,
hereinafter referred to as "this code."
Section 102.6 Referenced Codes And Standards. Amend to read as follows:
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed
in chapter 45 and such codes and standards shall be considered part of the
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
Where differences occur between the provisions of this code and the referenced
standards, the provisions of this code shall apply. The following codes and
standards are not adopted by reference:
IPC-2006 international plumbing code;
IWUIC-2006 international wildland-urban interface code.
Section 505.1 Address Numbers. Amend to read as follows:
Each structure to which an address number has been assigned shall have such
number displayed in compliance with the Golf village code.
Section 506.1 Key Boxes. Amend to read as follows:
All buildings or structures equipped with a fire alarm or fire suppression
system shall provide a fire department key box on the exterior of the building
or structure. The box shall contain keys to allow fire department entry in the
event of fire alarm activation or an emergency. The fire official may also
require a fire department key box if access to the building, structure or area
is unduly difficult. All fire department key boxes, location of the key boxes,
and the number of key boxes required shall be approved by the fire official.
Section 903.2.7 Group R. Delete this section.
Section 903.3.5 Water Supplies. Amend to read as follows:
Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section
and the standards referenced in section 903.3.1. The potable water supply shall
be protected against backflow in accordance with the requirements of this
section and the adopted plumbing code. Hydrant flow data used for the design of
any sprinkler system shall be no more than one (1) year old.
Section 903.3.5.3 Low Water Pressure Factor. Amend by adding this section:
Provide a minimum 10%, but not less than 5 psi, safety factor in the fire
protection system hydraulic calculation. The system demand shall be a minimum 5
psi below the annual water flow test supply.
Section 903.4.2.1 Additional Alarm Location. Amend by adding the following:
An approved alarm notification appliance (audio/visual device) shall be
provided on the exterior of the building or structure and located over the fire
department connection or as approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
Section 903.4.2.2 Location. Amend by adding this section:
Alarm notification appliances and approved audio/visual devices shall be
provided and located per NFPA 72.
Section 903.4.3 Floor Control Valves. Amend to read as follows:
Approved supervised indicating control valves shall be provided at the point of
connection to the riser on each floor of the building or structure.
Section 903.4.4 Additional Smoke Detectors Required. Amend by adding this
section:
Where automatic sprinkler system provides protection to an area with an
approved flow switch interconnected to the fire alarm system, and the area is
easily identifiable as to the location of the activation, additional automatic
detectors are not required. When a building has numerous rooms protected by the
zoned sprinkler system, the authority having jurisdiction may require
additional smoke detectors.
Section 903.5.1 Accessibility. Amend by adding this section:
Fire sprinkler systems inspection test valves shall be accessible at all times
and located no more than 6' above the finished floor surface. On multiple riser
systems test valves shall be clearly identified in permanent marking as to the
riser and area served.
Section 903.7 Referenced Standards. Amend by adding this section:
All references to NFPA standards are to be considered part of this code.
Exceptions:
NFPA 101 life safety code
NFPA 5000 building code
Section 903.8 Fire Pump Test Header. Amend by adding this section:
Automatic sprinkler systems that are equipped with an approved fire pump shall
be provided with an OS&Y (or approved equal) control valve on the fire pump
test header(s). Fire pump installations shall include an exterior test header.
Section 903.9 Private Fire Hydrants: Amend by adding this section:
In developed lots, subdivisions or parcels, fire hydrants shall be located in
that no fire hydrant is located no greater than 300' from nearest fire hydrant.
Fire hydrants shall be provided on all sides of a developed lot, subdivision or
parcel as approved by the authority having jurisdiction. One (1) fire hydrant
shall be located not more than 100' of the fire department connection on the
fire protection water supply to the building or structure.
Section 903.10 Fire Department Access. Amend by adding this section:
Rooms or spaces containing an automatic sprinkler system riser valve and/or a
fire pump shall be provided with direct access from the exterior of the
building or structure.
Section 903.11 Warehouse Storage. Delete this section.
Section 903.12 Backflow Protection. Amend by adding this section:
Backflow protection shall be provided on automatic sprinkler system risers in
S1 and S2 occupancies that have a floor area greater than 20,000 square feet
and storage in excess of 12' in height.
Section 906.1 Portable Fire Extinguishers. Amend to read as follows:
Where required: A portable fire extinguisher shall be installed in the
following locations in accordance with NFPA 10, 2007 edition.
      1.   In all occupancies in use groups A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, B, F-1, F-2, I-
1, M, R-1 (except single family dwellings not used as adult care or child care
facilities), S-1, S-2, and H.
      2.   In all areas containing commercial kitchen exhaust hood systems
class K fire extinguishers are required.
      3.   In all areas where fuel is used, stored or dispensed.
      4.   In all areas where flammable or combustible liquids is used in the
operation of spraying, coating, or dipping.
      5.   In all occupancies in use group I-3 at staff locations. Access to
portable fire extinguishers shall be permitted to be locked.
      6.   On each floor of structures under construction, except occupancies
in use group R-3.
      7.   In any laboratory, shop or other room of similar purpose.
      8.   Where required by sections indicated in table 906.1 for various
operations, processes, structures and areas.
Section 907.1.2 Equipment. Amend to read as follows:
Systems and their components shall be listed and approved for the purpose for
which they are installed. Systems shall be installed per NFPA 72.
Section 907.2 Where Required - New Buildings And Structures. Delete this
section in its entirety.
Section 907.2.2 Automatic Fire Detection System Required. Amend by adding this
section:
An approved automatic fire detection system shall be installed in all use
groups, not provided with an automatic sprinkler system, and in accordance with
NFPA 72. Devices, combination of devices, appliances, and equipment shall
comply with section 907.1.2. The automatic fire detectors shall be smoke
detectors, except that an approved alternative type of detector shall be
installed in spaces such as boiler rooms where during normal operation products
of combustion are present in sufficient quantity to activate a smoke detector.
Section 907.2.3 Control Panel Locations. Amend by adding this section:
All fire alarm control panels or full function annunciators panels shall be
installed within 10 feet of the main entrance, or in a location approved by the
fire department.
Section 907.11 Fire Safety Functions. Amend by adding this section:
Automatic fire detectors utilized for the purpose of performing fire safety
functions shall be connected to the building's fire alarm control panel where a
fire alarm system is required by section 907.2. Detectors shall, upon
actuation, perform the intended function and activate the alarm notification
appliances or a visible and audible supervisory signal at a constantly attended
location. In buildings not required to be equipped with a fire alarm system,
the automatic fire detector shall be powered by normal electric service and,
upon actuation, perform the intended function. The detectors shall be located
in accordance with chapter 5 of NFPA 72. Multi-tenant group M buildings will be
activated by individual tenant space by the automatic sprinkler system flow
switch for that space or an automatic fire detection system.
Section 912.1.1 Fire Department Connections. Amend by adding this section:
All fire department connection shall be a NST, 4 inch Storz connection with a
30 degree down turn.
Section 1006.3.1 Additional Illumination Requirements. Amend by adding this
section:
All rooms containing the building fire sprinkler riser(s), fire pump(s) and
fire alarm control panel(s) shall be provided with approved emergency lighting.
Section 3301.1.3 Fireworks. Amend to read as follows:
The possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling and use of fireworks are
prohibited.
Exceptions:
            (1)   Storage and handling and use of fireworks at display sites in
accordance with sections 3304 and 3308.5 and NFPA 1123 or NFPA 1126 listed in
chapter 35 of the 2006 international building code.
            (2)   The retail sale of approved consumer novelties as defined by
this ordinance shall be permitted but only to persons 18 years of age or older
shall be permitted only in buildings equipped with approved automatic sprinkler
systems. The display of consumer novelties in a building shall be separated
from all exit doors by a minimum distance of 20 feet or as approved in advance
in writing by the fire chief. The sale of consumer novelties shall not be
permitted at any building or on any property where flammable or combustible
liquids or gases are sold or dispensed.
Section 3301.1.3.1 Penalties For Possession. Amend by adding this section:
Any person, firm, corporation, or entity that violates any provision of section
3301.1.3 shall be subject to an escalating fine schedule as follows:
      1.   First offense: $50.
      2.   Second offense: $100.
      3.   Third offense and each subsequent offense: $250.
Section 3302.1 Definitions. Amend by adding the following:
Consumer novelties. Consumer novelties shall mean: (i) snakes, glow worm
pellets, smoke devices, trick snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, auto
burglar alarms, toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, and other devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive compound are
used, provided they are constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion, and (ii) toy pistol paper or
plastic caps which contain less than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture.
Section 3308.2.1 Outdoor Displays. Amend to read as follows:
In addition to the requirements of section 403, permit applications for outdoor
fireworks displays using division 1.3G fireworks shall include a diagram of the
location at which the display will be conducted, including the site from which
fireworks will be discharged; the location of buildings, highways, overhead
obstructions and utilities; and the lines behind which the audience will be
restrained. All outdoor fireworks displays shall be electronically fired using
approved electronic firing units and approved mortar racks. All outdoor
fireworks displays shall comply with the provisions of the Illinois pyrotechnic
use act (425 ILCS 35), and the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing
act (225 ILCS 227).
Section 3308.11 Retail Display And Sale. Amend to read as follows:
It shall be unlawful to display, sell, store, or advertise for sale any class
1.3G or 1.4G fireworks within the village of Golf.
(Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
      4.   Appendix 4:
   Amendments To Illinois Plumbing Code
The Illinois plumbing code is adopted with the following amendment:
Pursuant to 17 Ill. admin. code 3730.307(c)(4) and subject to the Illinois
plumbing code (77 Ill. admin. code 890) and the lawn irrigation contractor and
lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 Ill. admin. code 892), all new
plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after November 9, 2015
shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S. environmental
protection agency WaterSense program), when such labeled fixtures are
available.
(Ord. 2016-01, 1-11-2016)
8-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS; DUTIES OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Permit Required: No building or other structure shall be constructed,
remodeled, repaired, moved or demolished where the cost of such construction,
remodeling, repairing, moving or demolition is in excess of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) unless a building permit authorizing such construction,
remodeling, repairing, moving or demolition shall first have been procured from
the building commissioner.
   B.   Application For Permit: Permits for constructing, remodeling,
repairing, moving or demolishing a building or buildings, or other structures,
shall be procured by making application for same by submitting a building
permit application to the building commissioner. No application shall be
accepted unless signed by the owner of the property to which the application
relates, or by his duly authorized agent. Applications shall be made only on
forms furnished by the building commissioner. Each application shall be
accompanied by the submissions required in chapter 3 of this title. Plans and
specifications for construction of new buildings, additions to existing
buildings or other structures shall be certified by a licensed architect.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: No building permit shall be issued if site
preparation work has not been completed in accordance with the requirements of
any site preparation permit issued as a preliminary condition to performing the
work. However, if the application is in proper form and if it appears therefrom
and from the plans and specifications submitted with such application that the
work proposed to be undertaken does conform with this title and all other
village ordinances, and when all site preparation work has been performed and
the required fees, charges and deposits are made, the building commissioner
shall issue the building permit applied for.
   D.   Water Connection Fee: The water connection fee is provided for in
section
7-1-5 of this code.
   E.   Duties Of Building Commissioner: The building commissioner shall have
the powers and duties assigned to the position of building commissioner as set
forth in this title. Whenever any of the adopted codes refer to "administrative
authority" or "code official", such terms shall refer to the building
commissioner. Any person serving as building commissioner shall have a broad
knowledge of building construction insofar as practical and technical concepts
including the related fields of plumbing, heating, ventilating and electrical
construction. The building commissioner's basic duties shall be as follows:
      1.   Set up, keep and maintain a file of applications, permits issued,
plats diagrams, plans and other data required by this title to be filed.
      2.   Receive all applications for building permits and approve the
issuance of building permits when the applications comply with the requirements
of this title.
      3.   Receive reports of inspectors of the village of Golf or other
recognized inspection services, after investigation of their qualifications and
reliability, in connection with reviews of commercial projects or code matters
beyond the general competence of the building commissioner, provided such
reports shall be made in writing and certified by a responsible person of such
agency or service.
      4.   Make the necessary practical inspections of work performed in the
field or reasonably ascertain whether all regulations of this title to
property, buildings or structures are complied with.
      5.   Keep a record of all inspections made, of reports rendered and of
notices of orders issued and deposit such records in the individual property
file previously mentioned. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-1-4: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Upon the completion of any new construction or remodeling, the building
commissioner shall issue to the owner of the property a certificate of
occupancy, subject to the finding by the building commissioner that such new
construction or remodeling complies with all the provisions of this title and
the village zoning ordinance 1 . (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-1-5: FEES, CHARGES AND DEPOSITS:
Permit and inspection fees shall be as set forth in the annual fee schedule in
effect at the time a permit application is submitted, as adopted by the board
of trustees pursuant to this code, including all amendments thereto. (Ord.
2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-1-6: PERMIT TIME LIMITS:
No permit or approval made pursuant to the village building code shall be valid
for a period of more than one year after the date of issuance. An extension of
time may be granted by the village upon request, provided, however that no such
extension shall exceed eighteen (18) months from the original date of issuance
of the permit. Permits for fences, driveways and smaller projects when issued
may be initially valid only for six (6) months as appropriate for the project.
(Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-1-7: PLUMBING REGULATIONS IN BASEMENTS:
   A.   All new buildings with basements, floors, rooms or occupancy areas
below ground level at the building site and served by a public or private sewer
system, shall have overhead plumbing. No building permit application will be
accepted nor any permits issued for construction of any structure unless plans
and specifications therefor provide for overhead plumbing as called for in this
section.
   B.   Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps for further discharge
into drainage ditches or approved drainage conveyance system. No footing drain
or drainage tile shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 2009-
17, 11-9-2009)
8-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a class
D penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
SECTION:
8-2-1: Building Assistance Committee Created
8-2-2: Architectural Design Conformance
8-2-3: Design Review
8-2-4: Committee Review And Appeal
8-2-5: Violations And Penalties
8-2-1: BUILDING ASSISTANCE COMMITTEE CREATED:
There is hereby created a building assistance committee for the village. The
members of the committee are the village architect, the building commissioner
and the building inspector. Should one person fill both the building
commissioner and the building inspector positions, then the village president
may appoint a third member to the committee at his or her discretion. (Ord. 08-
07, 8-13-2007)
8-2-2: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN CONFORMANCE:
Every building hereafter constructed, erected, altered or enlarged in the
village shall be so designed and constructed as to be architecturally suitable
to its environment and shall not be incompatible or incongruous with the
exterior design and appearance of buildings constructed or in the course of
construction in the neighborhood thereof. The building shall also be in
conformance with applicable provisions of the zoning regulations of this code 1
. (Ord. 00-03, 5-8-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-2-3: DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   New Construction: Plans for all construction of all totally and
completely new buildings, shall be submitted to the building assistance
committee for review after the building commissioner has determined compliance
with all other ordinances of the village.
   B.   Existing Buildings: Whenever an application is filed with the building
commissioner for a building permit, and the building commissioner finds that
said application, plans and specifications and plot plans submitted therewith
otherwise comply with all the ordinances of the village, but that said
application provides for an addition to an existing structure, the exterior
design and appearance of which, in the opinion of the building commissioner,
may be incompatible or incongruous with the exterior design and appearance of
buildings constructed or in the course of construction in the neighborhood, or
is incompatible with the provisions of the zoning ordinance, the building
commissioner shall withhold the granting of such permit and shall, within
fifteen (15) days after receipt of the application file said application
together with his written and signed opinion with the members of the building
assistance committee for review by said committee. (Ord. 00-03, 5-8-2000; amd.
2003 Code)
8-2-4: COMMITTEE REVIEW AND APPEAL:
The building assistance committee shall notify its members and applicant and
schedule a meeting within ten (10) working days following notification by the
building commissioner. The committee shall meet with the applicant and/or his
representatives to resolve any such issues as may be in conflict with village
code provisions, or incompatible or incongruous with the exterior design and
appearance of other buildings constructed or in the course of construction in
the neighborhood. If the issues are resolved, revised plans shall be submitted
to the building commissioner for further processing leading to the issuance of
a building permit. If the issues are not resolved, the applicant may appeal to
the village board. If the village board determines that there are potential
violations of the zoning ordinance, they shall direct a formal hearing before
the zoning board. If the village board finds that the issue is incompatibility
or incongruity with the exterior design and appearance of other buildings, the
village board shall make the final determination of the matter. (Ord. 00-03, 5-
8-2000)
8-2-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a class
B penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 00-03, 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Applicability And Interpretation
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Street Restoration And Security
8-3-4: Required Plans And Specifications
8-3-5: Additional Required Plans And Standards
8-3-6: Site Management Standards
8-3-7: Commencement Of Demolition Or Construction
8-3-8: Penalties
8-3-1: APPLICABILITY AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Applicability: The standards and conditions set out in this chapter
shall apply to all work undertaken in the village in conjunction with a permit
issued under the building code of the village 1 . The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to every application for a permit filed on or after the
effective date hereof. In addition, the provisions of this chapter shall apply
to every pending application for a permit, regardless of when that application
was filed, and to every permit issued pursuant to the village building code,
regardless of when that permit was issued.
   B.   Interpretation: The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all
work, whether demolition work or construction work, for which a permit is
required under the building code of the village.
   C.   Inconsistency With Other Codes And Ordinances: In the event of any
inconsistency or conflict in the application or operation of the provisions of
this chapter and other provisions of the building code of the village, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply and control.
   D.   Administrative Rules And Regulations: The building commissioner shall
promulgate such administrative rules and regulations as may be necessary or
appropriate to carry out the purposes and intents of this chapter. (Ord. 02-03,
5-13-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-2 of this title.
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are hereby adopted:
COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION: The beginning of any work under permit for the
structure being constructed.
COMMENCEMENT OF DEMOLITION: Any work done in conjunction with a permit issued
pursuant to the village building code, other than the installation of the
protective fencing required pursuant to other code provisions and any approved
soil sedimentation and erosion control.
COMPLETION OF DEMOLITION: Removal of the walls of the first floor above the
foundation of the structure being demolished or removal of all foundation
material from the excavation in the case of a foundation removal.
CONSTRUCTION: All the on site work done in building or altering structures from
land clearance to completion, including excavation, erection and the assembly
and installation of components and equipment.
DEMOLITION: Where a permit to raze a structure or part thereof is required, the
razing and removal of all or substantially all of a structure or the removal of
such portions of a principal structure as to make the structure uninhabitable
or unsafe for human occupancy. (Ord. 02-03, 5-13-2002)
8-3-3: STREET RESTORATION AND SECURITY:
Prior to the issuance of any site preparation permit or building permit, the
applicant shall schedule a video and photographic inspection of the adjoining
streets and parkways to be conducted by the building department, which shall
prepare a dated VHS videotape or digital video disk (DVD) clearly showing the
existing condition of all portions of the street(s), shoulders, parkways,
ditches, and culverts along or within one hundred feet (100') of the property
to be developed (i.e., along the entire lot line adjoining the street and
extending from each end of such lot line for a distance of 100 feet along the
public or private street right of way beyond the boundary of the lot), and such
VHS videotape or DVD inspection report shall be admissible as sufficient
evidence in any court proceeding or other dispute between the applicant and the
village concerning the condition of such public or private street and nearby
parkways, ditches, and culverts prior to the applicant's activities. Prior to
the issuance of a building permit, site preparation permit, or site development
permit, the applicant shall also deliver to the village a form of security
herein described (the "street restoration security") to run to the benefit of
the village to protect the village and hold it free and harmless from all
claims or rights of action arising from or claimed to be due from the use of
said street, and for the further purpose of guaranteeing the restoration of
such street or streets or parkways in the event of any damage or injury caused
by such construction vehicles. The street restoration security shall consist of
either: a) a refundable cash deposit or b) an irrevocable, unconditional letter
of credit in a form satisfactory to the village. The street restoration
security may be posted by the owner of the property or the owner's contractor,
as the permit applicant, but in any event only one street restoration security
shall be required for a single construction project. A permit applicant
applying for permits for different construction projects on the same street
shall be required to furnish one street restoration security for each
construction project. The amount of the street restoration security shall be as
set forth in the annual fee schedule. Upon the faithful performance of the
conditions and provisions of the permits, the plans accompanying such permits
and other applicable provisions of this code, the cash deposit or letter of
credit shall be returned within thirty (30) days to the applicant. If there
shall be any damage to the adjoining streets used during the applicant's
construction, based upon a comparison of the video and photographic inspection
conducted by the building department, then the applicant's activities shall be
presumed to be the primary cause of such damage and the village may use the
street restoration security to restore the condition of the damaged street.
(Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-3-4: REQUIRED PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Every application for a permit shall be accompanied by the following plans and
specifications:
   A.   Building Plans And Specifications:
      1.   If the application includes demolition of a principal structure,
then the application shall include building plans and specifications prepared
in compliance with the provisions of the building code, for any structure to be
built on the subject property.
      2.   If commencement of construction of such structure is not planned to
occur, or does not occur within thirty (30) days after completion of
demolition, then the application also shall include a detailed site restoration
plan as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Site Restoration Plans And Specifications: If the application includes
demolition of a principal structure and if commencement of construction of a
new structure is not planned to occur, or does not occur within thirty (30)
days after completion of demolition, then the application shall include a
detailed site restoration plan depicting all work required to restore the
subject property, within thirty (30) days after completion of demolition, to a
safe, clean condition until construction of a new structure has commenced,
including, without limitation, backfilling of any excavation, grading, seeding,
fencing, stormwater management and the like. (Ord. 02-03, 5-13-2002)
8-3-5: ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLANS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Stormwater Management And Soil Sedimentation And Erosion Control Plans:
In addition to all other village regulations, village ordinances, plans and
specifications, the application shall include detailed plans and specifications
for stormwater management, soil sedimentation and erosion control and grading
on the subject property. Such plans and specifications shall be on a drawing or
drawings separate from all other plans and specifications, labeled as
stormwater management plans and/or soil sedimentation and erosion control
plans. Such plans and specifications shall be prepared and certified by a
professional engineer, shall be made in conformance with the requirements of
the village and shall include a certification by the applicant, in a form
provided by the village, that all requirements of the village's codes,
ordinances and regulations relating to stormwater management, soil erosion
control and grading shall be satisfied by the applicant at all times. Among
other details, the required stormwater management plans shall include:
      1.   Drainage plans and soil erosion control during demolition, if any.
      2.   Stormwater management and soil sedimentation and erosion control
during any period of time between completion of demolition and commencement of
construction.
      3.   Stormwater management and soil sedimentation and erosion control
commencing with preparation for foundation pouring and continuing during the
entire construction process until final grading of the subject property.
   B.   Accessibility, Parking And Loading Plans: The application shall include
separate plans and specifications showing the location of all work affecting,
and all parking and loading activities planned to take place on public streets,
sidewalks and other rights of way. Such plans and specifications shall include,
among other things, the location of pavement, sidewalk and trees that may be
affected by the proposed work; the impacts on such pavement, sidewalk and
trees; the proposed location for all parking of contractor and worker vehicles;
the proposed location of any loading or unloading activities including concrete
to occur within any right of way.
   C.   Materials And Spoils Storage Plans: The application shall include plans
depicting the proposed location for storage of materials and spoil on the
subject property that are consistent with village soil sedimentation and
erosion control requirements.
   D.   Dust And Airborne Particulate Control Provisions: The application shall
include provisions for controlling dust and other airborne particles from the
subject property, including, without limitation, a source of water and spraying
equipment and any other measures to be taken to control airborne particles.
   E.   Fencing: If the permit authorizes demolition or authorizes construction
of a new principal structure, then the applicant shall cause a six foot (6')
chainlink fence to be installed around the perimeter of either the excavation,
the structure under construction or the entire construction area in a location
and manner approved by the building commissioner. The fencing shall be
installed not more than seven (7) days nor less than four (4) days before
commencement of any work on the subject property pursuant to any permit issued
by the village. In addition to such perimeter fencing, the applicant shall
cause safety fencing to be installed around every tree in the parkway abutting
the subject property. Such tree fencing shall be located, so far as feasible,
at the drip line of the tree, whether on public or private property; provided,
however, that this subsection shall not be construed or applied to authorize
placement of tree fencing on private property not owned by the applicant unless
written authorization therefor has been secured from the property owner by the
applicant. If placement of tree fencing is not feasible at the drip line of the
tree, then such fencing shall be installed in a location approved by the
building commissioner. (Ord. 02-03, 5-13-2002)
   F.   Site Preparation Permit Application: Based upon the submissions
required in this section, the building commissioner shall determine whether the
scope of a project for which an applicant seeks a building permit merits the
issuance of a site preparation permit before a building permit may be issued to
minimize damage to the land in question and surrounding property from soil
erosion, damage to stormwater drainage routes, culverts, damage to protected
trees and damage to surrounding streets and to maintain an orderly, secure,
safe and clean construction site. A site preparation permit shall be mandatory
when a tree protection plan is required as part of a tree removal permit. If a
site preparation permit is required, then the applicant shall supply drawings
or narrative responses to address the matters described in this section or to
satisfy applicable provisions of the building code, other ordinances of the
village or other applicable law. Site preparation activities required by a site
preparation may include, without limitation, the following:
      1.   Removal of trees, tree pruning, root pruning, and other tree care
activities that are proposed in the tree removal permit application.
      2.   Installation of protective tree fencing. All protective tree fencing
as required by the Golf tree preservation ordinance (title 4, chapter 6 of this
code).
      3.   Installation of erosion control measures and construction driveway.
      4.   Installation of perimeter area construction fencing as required by
subsection E of this section.
      5.   Installation of temporary markers delineating the limits of
permanent "protected area" markers at the boundaries of wetlands, wetland
buffers, or protected areas proposed to remain undisturbed.
      6.   Shutoff of gas lines or other utilities and disconnection of same
when required.
      7.   Location and delivery of portable toilet and trash receptacle.
      8.   Installation of contractor sign meeting the requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
      9.   If excavation is required for a new structure, foundation, utility
installation or drainage improvement, the site preparation plan shall indicate
the: a) installation of a single construction entrance, which may be in the
location of the permanent driveway, from the adjoining public or private street
to the lot and b) installation of additional fencing in the construction area
so that all construction traffic to and from the construction area uses the
construction driveway. The construction driveway shall be constructed with
three inch (3") crushed limestone to a minimum compacted depth of six inches
(6"). The site preparation plan shall indicate that, prior to installation of
the construction driveway, the applicant shall be required to install, repair
or replace culverts and ditches so that the natural flow of surface stormwater
on or along the lot is not impeded by the construction driveway or debris and
construction materials. All culverts shall be installed, repaired or replaced
in accordance with village ordinances.
   G.   Issuance Of Site Preparation Permit: If the objectives of minimizing
damage to the land in question and surrounding property and all requirements
relating to site management standards are demonstrated in the site preparation
plan, and if any required street restoration security is posted, and if all
other requirements are satisfied for the issuance of a building permit, then
the building commissioner shall indicate his approval of the site preparation
plan by signing and issuing a site preparation permit to the applicant. Under
the site preparation permit, the applicant shall perform the work indicated in
the site preparation plan and shall not perform any work for which a building
permit must separately be issued unless and until the building permit is
issued. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-3-6: SITE MANAGEMENT STANDARDS:
The following site management standards shall apply to all work:
   A.   Accessibility, Parking And Loading Standards: No pavement or sidewalk
within any public right of way shall be unavailable for public use at any time
except when such pavement or sidewalk is removed and replaced. No such pavement
or sidewalk that is removed and replaced shall be out of service for more than
three (3) days without the prior approval of the village. No parking, loading
or storage of demolition debris, spoil or construction materials shall be
permitted within any right of way, on any public property, or within ten feet
(10') of any right of way adjacent public or private property unless
specifically approved by the village. The village may prohibit parking in any
particular location on a public right of way if the village determines that
such parking has an adverse impact on neighboring property or on traffic
control. All uses of vehicles shall comply with applicable codes related to
parking and time of operation of vehicles.
   B.   Particulate Control: Airborne particles shall be controlled at the
subject property at all times during work by means of a water truck and
spraying equipment or other water source capable of spraying and thoroughly
saturating all portions of the structure and surrounding property affected by
the work. Such spraying shall be undertaken at all times necessary to
thoroughly control the creation and migration of airborne particles, including,
without limitation, dust from the subject property.
   C.   Gravel Mat: When determined by the village to be appropriate and
practicable, the applicant shall cause a gravel mat to be installed on the
subject property of a size and in a location sufficient to wash down all
vehicles used on the subject property and to cause dirt and mud to be removed
from the tires of such vehicles. The gravel mat shall be located so as not to
interfere with any use by the public of public rights of way and not to cause
any nuisance or inconvenience to adjacent public or private property.
   D.   Sanitation Facilities: A portable toilet shall be provided at every
site of construction of a new principal structure, or addition thereto, prior
to the commencement of construction, unless an existing facility is available
on the construction site.
   E.   Litter Control And Cleanup: Litter and debris at the subject property
shall be controlled at all times. The applicant shall designate a person
regularly present at the subject property as having responsibility to assure
that no litter or debris leaves the subject property and that all litter and
debris is removed from the subject property before the end of every day,
including weekends regardless of whether or not work was conducted that day on
the subject property.
   F.   Street And Sidewalk Cleaning: The applicant shall cause all dirt, mud,
gravel and other debris from the subject property or related to any work
conducted on the subject property to be cleaned regularly from all sidewalks
and streets adjoining and in the area of the subject property on every day that
construction occurs on said property.
   G.   No Trespass: No permit issued pursuant to the village building code,
shall authorize or shall be construed to authorize any entry onto property
adjoining the subject property or any work for which entry onto property
adjoining the subject property is or may be necessary, unless a proper right of
entry has been secured from the owner of such property.
   H.   Stormwater Management: Stormwater shall be managed during all phases of
demolition and construction so as not to impact adjacent properties and/or
public right of way.
   I.   Wastewater Discharge: No person shall undertake any work pursuant to a
permit issued under the village building code, from which the discharge of any
wastewater will be caused or associated without prior approval. It shall be the
duty of the person undertaking any such work to direct all wastewater flow to
the particular location designated by the building commissioner. No person
undertaking such work shall cause or allow any cement truck wash to be
discharged onto any public property or into any catch basin or other village
sewer facility.
   J.   Limitations On Noise: No person shall operate or cause to be operated
any radio, phonograph, telecommunications device or other such object at such a
volume or in any other manner that would cause a nuisance or a disturbance to
any person. Every contractor and every permittee shall be responsible for all
actions of their employees, agents and subcontractors hereunder, and shall be
liable for all violations of the provisions of this chapter committed by such
employees, agents or subcontractors. (Ord. 02-03, 5-13-2002)
   K.   Permissible Hours And Days Of Construction: All work undertaken
pursuant to a permit issued under the village building code may occur only
between the following hours and on the following days:
7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. on weekdays
8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. on Saturdays
No construction allowed on Sundays or on legal holidays. For purposes of this
subsection, the following are considered legal holidays in the village: New
Year's Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving Day; after
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Christmas Eve; Christmas Day; and after twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on New Year's Eve. (Ord. 2015-09, 8-10-2015)
   L.   No Obstructions: No street, parkway or sidewalk shall be obstructed in
the course of any building operations without first securing permission for
such obstruction from the building commissioner. The building commissioner
shall indicate his approval or disapproval of such obstruction upon the permit
issued in connection with the work creating the obstruction.
   M.   Safety Devices: Warnings, barricades and lights shall be maintained
during the course of building operations whenever necessary for the protection
of pedestrians and traffic. The term "building operations" as used in this
section shall apply equally to new construction, remodeling, repairing, moving
and demolition. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
8-3-7: COMMENCEMENT OF DEMOLITION OR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Posted Notice: The applicant shall cause notice of demolition or
construction to be given by posting the subject application in a prominent
place with a sign announcing such commencement. Such sign shall include notice
that the rules and regulations applicable to demolition and construction work
are available at the village hall. Such sign shall be posted not less than
fourteen (14) days in advance of such commencement, and shall be maintained on
the subject property until all work on the subject property has been completed
and approved, or until removal of the sign is approved by the building
commissioner or the building inspector.
   B.   Site Restoration: Construction of an approved structure shall have
commenced, or the subject property shall have been fully restored in
conformance with the approved site restoration plan, if any, or with such other
plans as may be approved by the village, within forty five (45) days after
completion of demolition. (Ord. 02-03, 5-13-2002)
8-3-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a class D penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation or failure to comply is permitted
to exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any construction undertaken in
conjunction with the provisions of this chapter until such time that all
penalties and fines have been resolved to the satisfaction of the building
commissioner or the building inspector. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-9-2009)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Bureau Of Fire Prevention
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Appeals From Decisions Of Fire Prevention Bureau
8-4-4: Modifications
8-4-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Requiring Permits
8-4-6: Penalties
8-4-7: Code Compliance
8-4-8: Reimbursement For Extraordinary Expenses
8-4-9: Amendments To Life Safety Code
8-4-10: Additional Regulations
8-4-11: Street Obstructions
8-4-12: Excessive False Emergency Alarms
8-4-1: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   A.   Established: The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the bureau
of fire prevention in the fire department of the village of Glenview. The fire
prevention bureau shall be operated under the supervision of the fire marshal
of the fire department. The fire prevention bureau shall be responsible for the
inspection of all properties other than one- and two-family dwellings.
   B.   Inspectors:
      1.   The fire inspector in charge of the bureau of fire prevention shall
be appointed by the fire marshal.
      2.   The fire marshal of the fire department may detail such members of
the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The
fire marshal of the fire department may recommend to the village board the
employment of technical inspectors who may be members or nonmembers of the fire
department.
   C.   Reports: A report of the bureau of fire prevention shall be made
annually and transmitted to the village clerk. The report shall contain all
proceedings under this code, with such statistics as the fire marshal of the
fire department shall also recommend and any amendments to the code which, in
his judgment, are desirable. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in the fire prevention code adopted in section
8-1-2 of this title:
CHIEF OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT OR CHIEF OF THE FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU: The fire
marshal of the village of Glenview.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The attorney for the village of Golf.
FIREWORKS: As used in the fire prevention code and also held to mean auto
flares.
MUNICIPALITY: The village of Golf. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-3: APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU:
Whenever the fire prevention bureau of the fire department shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a license or permit applied for, or when it is
claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the fire prevention bureau to the
fire marshal within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
The decision of the fire marshal shall be final.
The fire marshal, when so appealed to, may vary the application of any
provision of this code in any particular case when, in the fire marshal's
judgment, the enforcement would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this
code or when, in the fire marshal's judgment, the interpretation of the fire
prevention bureau should be modified or reversed. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-4: MODIFICATIONS:
The fire marshal shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire
prevention code upon application, in writing, by the owner or lessee, or his
duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the
code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the fire marshal thereon shall be entered upon the building records of the fire
prevention bureau and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant. (Ord., 6-
8-1992)
8-4-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES REQUIRING PERMITS:
The building commissioner, the fire marshal of the fire department and the fire
inspector of the bureau of fire prevention shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require
permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the code. Following such
determination and specification, the committee shall give written notice
thereof to interested persons. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire
prevention code or fails to comply therewith, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the fire marshal, or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-2 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within the time
reasonably necessary as determined and specified, in writing, by the fire
marshal, or within such further time as may be extended by him in writing; and
when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 6-8-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-7: CODE COMPLIANCE:
Whenever a physical change is made to a structure for which a building or
remodeling permit is required, or a change of the type of occupancy occurs
which, in the opinion of the fire marshal, creates a greater hazard to public
safety or welfare, said property shall be brought into compliance with all
codes adopted by the village relative to the protection of health, safety and
welfare. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-8: REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES:
   A.   Upon report and recommendation of the fire department, the corporate
authorities find and determine that the recipients of aid or emergency relief
and services shall be assessed for extraordinary costs incurred and payable to
third parties or village personnel for costs associated with rendering aid or
emergency relief and services, including provision of supplies and equipment
exhausted in rendering of said aid or emergency relief and services; and
   B.   Examples of such items to be billed to persons receiving aid or
emergency relief and services include, but are not limited to, services by
third parties relative to plumbing work within property lot lines, removal of
vehicles or other items necessitating use of special equipment, testing to
determine life safety factors when required, handling or disposing of toxic or
hazardous substances and other related or necessary emergency relief and
services; and
      1.   That the recipients or benefactors or administrators, personal
representatives, executors, successors, heirs or assigns thereof, all as
determined by the head of the department rendering aid or emergency relief,
shall be and are obligated to reimburse the village in the actual amount of
payment made by the village to third parties for services rendered in providing
aid or emergency relief and for personnel costs associated with this aid, as
well as payments to replenish necessary supplies and equipment used while
providing aid or emergency services. The village of Glenview, upon incurring
such extraordinary costs, shall notify the Golf village clerk of the
circumstances and provide a copy of the invoice or billing statement from the
third party that specifies the nature of the expenditures and the amount to be
or, in fact, paid. The Golf village clerk shall cause an invoice to be issued
for the amount certified by the village of Glenview as to each circumstance
reported.
      2.   As used herein, the term "third party" means and includes any
person, company or business entity, other than the village or its employees.
The village may not employ any person or entity as a third party directly or
indirectly sharing an interest in such services with an employee or officer of
the village, nor a company of which any portion is owned by an employee or
officer of the village.
      3.   The village shall allow for a reasonable time for the payment of the
reimbursement amount and shall hear any complaints or objections on the type
and amounts of the expense. The village of Glenview or Golf may adjust the
amounts invoiced based upon demonstrated hardship but is not required to so
adjust. In the event that no payment or response to request for reimbursement
has been received within thirty (30) days from the date of invoice, the village
is authorized to undertake such action as provided by law for the recovery of
money due the village, including, but not limited to, the filing of a lien in
the office of the recorder of deeds or the office of the registrar or titles of
Cook County. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-9: AMENDMENTS TO LIFE SAFETY CODE:
The 1985 edition of the life safety code, as adopted in section
8-1-2 of this title, is amended as follows:
Section 5-4.1.1. Add the following to the end of the subsection:
Exception No. 1: All occupancy classifications except for residential shall
have a minimum of two (2) exits remote as possible from each other.
Section 5-8. Add a new subsection 5-8.1.6 to read as follows:
Battery operated emergency lighting shall be provided, where required by the
Glenview fire prevention bureau, in all occupancies other than one- and two-
family dwellings.
   (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-10: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Liquefied Petroleum Gases:
      1.   The bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases within the boundaries
of the village as established from time to time in the zoning ordinance of the
village 1 , is strictly prohibited.
      2.   Portable tank storage shall be allowed as follows providing all NFPA
requirements are met:
         a.   Commercial: A total of twelve (12) 20-pound cylinders.
         b.   Construction: Portable cylinders used for heating purposes shall
be allowed in an amount acceptable to the fire prevention bureau.
The filling of cylinders within the boundaries of the village is strictly
prohibited.
   B.   Flammable And Combustible Liquids: Flammable and combustible liquids
aboveground tank storage is prohibited in any and all use districts within the
boundaries of the village as established from time to time in the zoning
ordinance of the village.
   C.   Explosives And Blasting Agents: The manufacture, possession, storage,
sale, transportation or use of explosives or blasting agents within the
boundaries of the village is prohibited. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-4-11: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS:
No person shall erect, construct, place or maintain any bumps, fences, gates,
chains, bars, pipes, wood or metal horses or any other type of obstruction in
or on any street within the boundaries of the village without the express
written permission of the village board. The village board shall, prior to
issuing such approval, obtain an opinion from the chief of the Glenview fire
department regarding the impact any obstruction might have on public safety.
The word "street", as used in this section, shall mean any roadway, accessible
to the public for vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to, private
streets or access lanes, as well as all public streets and highways within the
boundaries of the village. (Ord., 6-8-1992)
8-4-12: EXCESSIVE FALSE EMERGENCY ALARMS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section:
    ALARM SYSTEM: Any assemblage of mechanical or electrical equipment or
devices or a single device, such as a solid state unit which plugs directly
into a one hundred ten (110) volt AC line, arranged to signal the presence of a
hazard, occurrence of an unauthorized intrusion or other activity requiring
urgent and immediate attention. The term alarm system shall include the terms
"automatic holdup alarm system", "holdup alarm system", "burglar alarm system",
"fire alarm system", "smoke detection alarm system", and "carbon monoxide alarm
system". The alarm system can be a receiving station alarm, having a direct
burglar, fire or smoke alarm connection from any building, place or premises
within the village of Golf at the village of Golf, Cook County or any other
police department or the village of Glenview or any other fire department, an
independent alarm system that emits an audible sound to the exterior of the
premises, or a central station alarm system which relays the signal to a
private person or company, either within or without the boundaries of the
village of Golf, providing watchmen or security service, or providing a service
to contact the village of Golf or any other police department, the village of
Glenview or any other fire department or any other emergency personnel of the
village of Golf or any other village. Personal medical alert alarm systems are
not included in this section.
   FALSE ALARM: Any alarm signal (burglar, fire, smoke, carbon monoxide, or
otherwise) eliciting a response by village of Golf police personnel or any
other village's police personnel, the village of Glenview or any other fire
emergency personnel, or any other emergency personnel wherein an emergency
situation does not, in fact, exist but does not include an alarm caused by
violent conditions of nature (severe weather), power outages, or other
extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the property
owner/alarm user.
   B.   Charges: The property owner of any residence or commercial
establishment at which more than two (2) false alarms occur within a calendar
year shall be subject to the charges set forth in the annual fee schedule as
adopted by the village board. For the year in which the ordinance codified
herein is adopted (i.e., the calendar year 2009), such charges shall be as set
forth in the following chart:
 
3 through 6 false alarms $120.00 per false alarm
Over 6 false alarms      200.00 per false alarm
 
The charges which any property owner has been assessed pursuant to this section
(in the amount set forth above or as amended in any year's annual fee schedule)
shall be paid to the village of Golf within thirty (30) days from the invoice
date requesting such charges. All unpaid false alarm charges will be referred
to an authorized collection agency.
   C.   Officer In Charge; Responsibilities To Document False Alarms: The
officer in charge of an incident which resulted from the activation of an
"alarm system" as defined in this section shall include in his report made as a
result of such incident, information regarding the type of alarm (i.e.,
intrusion/holdup/fire station alarm/central station alarm or outside ringer)
and shall also indicate whether or not any evidence exists of actual intrusion
or fire or other public safety concern which would have activated the alarm
system. The officer in charge shall also comment as to whether the alarm
activation was by act of God or other means which may be proven to be the cause
of the alarm activation and which may indicate that activation of the alarm was
clearly beyond the property owner/alarm user's responsibility or control.
   D.   Notice Of False Alarms: The chief of police of the village of Golf or
his designated agent shall notify the property owner/alarm user after the
village of Golf police department recorded two (2) false alarms within a
calendar year. The village of Golf police department shall notify the property
owner/alarm user in writing by first class mail of such fact and that
additional false alarm occurrences will result in the imposition of service
charges in accordance with this section. Upon additional false alarm
occurrences, the village of Golf shall invoice the property owner/alarm user as
specified in this section. Each property owner/alarm user shall have the
opportunity within ten (10) days after the receipt of such notice to submit a
report to or meet with the village of Golf chief of police or his designated
agent for the purpose of showing cause as to whether circumstances exist so as
to warrant a voiding of any prior false alarm recordation. The decision of the
village of Golf chief of police or his designated agent as to whether a false
alarm occurred shall be final.
   E.   Grace Periods For False Alarms: Whenever a new alarm system is
installed or a new property owner/alarm user (new resident or business) takes
control of an existing alarm system, the property owner/alarm user shall be
given sixty (60) days from the date of the installation or occupancy within
which no alarm from the premises shall be deemed to be a false alarm. (Ord.
2009-15, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 5
FENCES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Fence Permit
8-5-4: Fence Restrictions; Exceptions
8-5-5: Notice Of Violations; Failure To Comply
8-5-6: Height Modifications For Golf Road
8-5-7: Penalties
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter, which is known as the FENCE ORDINANCE, is enacted in accordance
with and in furtherance of the Village plan 1  to maintain the aesthetics and
spacious atmosphere of an entirely single-family, residential and semirural
community. (Ord., 3-13-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 1 of this Code.
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are to be defined as follows:
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel with a lot line and extended from the actual
closest wall of any existing building to any such lot line.
FENCE: Any freestanding structure or barrier of metal, masonry, composition,
wood or of whatsoever material as may exist as a boundary or a means of
protection, confinement or screening, which rests on or is partially buried
into the ground and rises above ground level.
FRONT YARD: A yard or unoccupied space on the same lot with any building or
structure extending along the entire length of the front lot line back to a
line drawn parallel with said front lot line at a distance equal to the depth
of the permissible building setback or the actual building line of any existing
building.
HISTORIC FENCE: A post and board wood fence consisting generally of three (3)
evenly spaced, horizontal boards that are installed on vertical posts set
approximately eight feet (8') apart, with all boards and posts painted white
and with the posts not exceeding the maximum height of any adjacent historic
fence.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by one building and accessory buildings
and uses and including the open spaces required under the zoning regulations of
this Code. A lot may be land so recorded on the records of Cook County,
Illinois, or may be a part of or a combination of lots so recorded.
PROHIBITED FENCE: Any fence that consists of or includes snow fencing, chicken
wire fencing, hog wire fencing, electrified fences, spiked fences, barbed wire,
and other non-customary residential materials, provided that chicken wire up to
18 inches in height from the base of a wood fence may be used to protect
against burrowing animals and in such application is not a prohibited fence.
REAR YARD: An open space (unoccupied except for accessory buildings) on the
same lot with a building between the rear line of a building and the rear line
of the lot for the full width of the lot except as modified by side yard
restrictions.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the street wall or walls of
the building and the street line.
SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between the
main wall of the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the
front lot line to the rear yard.
YARD: Any space or grounds abutting, surrounding or surrounded by any building
or buildings.
(Ord., 3-13-1967; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code; Ord. 2017-04, 6-12-2017; Ord.
2021-02, 6-14-2021)
8-5-3: FENCE PERMIT:
No fence whatever shall be erected within the Village without application to
the Building Commissioner for a permit and any such application shall be on
forms provided by the Building Commissioner and shall be accompanied by a
permit fee as provided in section 8-1-5 of this title, and a survey of the
property to be fenced. If the permit is not denied by the Building Commissioner
within ten (10) days after application in accord herewith, it shall be deemed
to have been issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, a prohibited
fence is not allowed in the village and a fence permit shall not be issued for
any prohibited fence.
(Ord., 3-13-1967; Ord. 2021-02, 6-14-2021)
8-5-4: FENCE RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No fence of any kind or size shall be permitted or shall hereafter be
erected in any front yard, as defined in this chapter, with certain exceptions
noted in subsection F of this section.
   B.   No fence shall be permitted within the side yard or rear yard in excess
of six feet (6') in height. Any fence that the building commissioner approved
with a height of six feet (6') under previous fence regulations shall be deemed
approved as a matter of right under this section.
   C.   No fence shall be erected on lot lines, except that fences may be
located at the lot line of any lot which constitutes a Village boundary or
faces immediately upon Golf Road or the Soo Line Railroad tracks or on more
than one lot.
   D.   No fence shall be constructed on a lot alongside a street or alley or
within five feet (5') of such street or alley and parallel thereto of greater
height than five feet (5') above the surface of the street or alley where a
grade is established or five feet (5') above the surface of the street or alley
where no grade is established; provided, however, in the case of a fence
located in a rear yard abutting Overlook Drive or located in any yard abutting
Golf Road, the METRA right-of-way or Diederick Park, a fence up to six (6) feet
in height may be constructed.
   E.   No single or isolated wall of any material whatever, which forms no
part of a building or structure lawfully erected, shall be constructed upon any
portion of a lot where the distance from such wall to the lot line is less than
the height of the wall and unless such isolated wall shall have lateral
supports on at least one side of same with braces extending to the top of the
wall and is so constructed that it shall be capable of resisting a horizontal
wind pressure on every part of same twice as great as buildings under the
provisions of this title must be designed to resist.
   F.   The prohibitions herein shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Any fences existing or to be erected on land that is zoned PCC
Property District; but nothing herein shall be construed to vary or lessen the
fencing requirements of the Village swimming pool ordinance.
      2.   Historic fences may be installed in front yards bordering the right-
of-way of Overlook Drive, between the entrance to the Village at Golf Road and
the intersection of Briar Road and Overlook Drive, provided that such fences
continue along the entire front lot line and align with the historic fences
already existing on Overlook Drive so as to appear as a continuation of
existing historic fences. Historic fences as so authorized may be extended
across all front yards of a lot even if certain front yards of such lot are not
located on Overlook Drive. (Ord. 2017-04, 6-12-2017)
      3.   For the purpose of aligning historic fences on Overlook Drive, the
owner of a lot may lawfully apply for and receive a conditional permit for a
historic fence to occupy part of the right-of-way of Overlook Drive
("conditional ROW permit"). The application for a conditional ROW permit shall
be on such forms and shall include such items as the Village may require,
including drawings, dimensions, elevations, details, north arrow, street names,
a copy of a valid deed to the owner and payment of the appropriate permit fee
as set forth in the Village fee schedule. The Village (by the Building
Commissioner or other designee) in its sole discretion will determine criteria
for placement of historic fences in the right-of-way ("placement criteria")
based on potential conflicts with the Americans With Disabilities Act, the
Illinois Accessibility Code, public utilities, parkway trees, pedestrian and
vehicular traffic and public safety. Notwithstanding the general terms of any
conditional ROW permit, if any portion of the historic fence (such as a
moveable gate) restricts vehicular passage from the adjoining street, such gate
shall be situated to allow for at least twenty feet (20') of driveway extending
between such gate and the street in which automobiles can wait while the gate
is operated. Approval of any moveable gate shall be at the discretion of the
Village Board. If approved, any moveable gate shall be subject to such terms
and conditions as the Village Board may impose for the purpose of assuring
emergency access. A conditional ROW permit will not expire, provided the terms
and conditions thereof continue to be met. The use and occupancy of the Village
right-of-way by any historic fence (whether or not a conditional ROW permit is
then in effect) shall at all times be subject to the following terms and
conditions:
         a.   The historic fence shall comply with the applicable provisions of
this chapter. Specific safety requirements listed as conditions of an
applicable conditional ROW permit must be observed.
         b.   Each owner with a historic fence located in Village right-of- way
shall provide updated owner contact information to the Village upon request.
         c.   Upon thirty (30) days' prior notice to the owner (except if an
emergency arises and such advance notice cannot be given without imperiling
public safety, in which event the Village shall give such notice before or
after taking action as may then be feasible): 1) the Village may revoke a
conditional ROW permit in whole or in part, if necessary to observe more
stringent placement criteria that, in the sole judgment of the Village Board,
should be observed to comply with law or better promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of the residents of the Village or 2) the Village
may require the owner to remove or relocate all or part of such owner's
historic fence in the event of any conflict with road repairs or utility work
that will take place in the right-of-way. The owner of a historic fence shall
bear all costs of removal, relocation and replacement of such owner's historic
fence without contribution from the Village.
         d.   Each owner of a lot having a historic fence located in Village
right-of-way shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Village, its agents,
servants, and employees and each of them against and hold it and them harmless
from any and all lawsuits, claims, demands, liabilities, losses and expenses,
including court costs and attorney's fees, for or on account of any injury to
any person, or any death at any time resulting from such injury, or any damage
to property, which may arise or which may be alleged to have arisen out of or
in connection with the issuance of the conditional ROW permit or with the
placement, maintenance or repair of such historic fence in the right-of-way of
the Village. The foregoing indemnity shall apply except if such injury, death
or damage is caused directly by the willful and wanton conduct of the Village,
its agents, servants, or employees or any other person indemnified hereunder.
         e.   If the owner of a lot having a historic fence located in Village
right-of-way shall fail or refuse to remove or relocate the fence when required
by the Village, the person violating these provisions shall be subject to a
Class C penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and the Village shall have the right to enforce such
removal by equitable proceedings and, without liability to the owner, the
Village shall also have the right to remove the fence through its own
contractors. In such event, the Village shall be entitled to recover from such
owner the costs of such removal. The Village may establish the amounts so due
through administrative adjudication or by civil action, and if any such amounts
are not paid to the Village upon demand, the Village Clerk, or designated
representative, is authorized, in accordance with law, to file a notice of lien
in the Office of Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, to foreclose the lien, and
to sue the occupant or owner of the lot to recover the charges and penalty due,
plus attorney fees as established by the court, including the costs of filing
the notice of lien, foreclosing the lien, and all litigation costs incurred in
connection with the collection of the amount due.
(Ord. 2017-04, 6-12-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-01, 1-8-2018; Ord. 2021-02, 6-14-2021)
8-5-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
In all cases where a fence or wall shall hereafter be erected contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall forthwith notify
the owner or agent of the land on which same is located, or the contractor
engaged in erecting same, and shall briefly specify in such notice in what
manner such fence or wall violates the provisions of this chapter, and the
Building Commissioner shall require the person so notified to forthwith make
such fence or wall conform to and comply with the provisions of this chapter,
specifying in such notice the time within which such work shall be done.
If, at the expiration of the time set in the notice provided for in this
section, the person so notified shall have refused, neglected or failed to
comply with the request made in such notice and shall not have torn down or
changed the said fence or wall so as to conform to and comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall have authority and
it shall be his duty to proceed forthwith to tear down, or cause to be torn
down, such fence or wall or so much thereof as is being maintained or shall
have been erected and constructed in violation of the provisions hereof, and
the cost of such tearing down shall be charged to and recovered from the owner
of such fence or wall or from the person for whom such fence or wall has been
or is being erected. (Ord., 11-13-1928; amd. 1989 Code)
8-5-6: HEIGHT MODIFICATIONS FOR GOLF ROAD:
Notwithstanding the height limits established in subsections
8-5-4:D of this chapter, in the case of a proposed fence located in any yard
abutting Golf Road, which fence is replacing an existing fence, (i) the
replacement fence may match the height of the existing fence but not to exceed
seven (7) feet in height and (ii) the Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize the
same height for an interior side yard fence connecting to the fence abutting
Golf Road. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not authorize any fence height
modifications under this section unless it finds that the fence at the
increased height will not impair the integrity and character of the
neighborhood in which the fence is located or be detrimental or injurious to
the other property or improvements in the general vicinity in which the
property is located.
(Ord. 2021-02, 6-14-2021)
8-5-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall erect, construct or maintain a fence in violation hereof
or who shall otherwise refuse to comply herewith shall be subject to a Class A
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 3-13-1967; amd. 1989 Code)
Each and every violation, and each and every day or part thereof such violation
or failure to comply continues following three (3) days after notification
thereof is sent by registered mail, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
9410, 12-12-1994)
CHAPTER 6
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Title
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Compliance With Building And Zoning Regulations
8-6-4: Permit Required; Fee
8-6-5: Design And Construction
8-6-6: Fences
8-6-7: Operation And Maintenance
8-6-7-1: Required Equipment
8-6-7-2: Water Supply
8-6-7-3: Water Condition
8-6-7-4: Drainage Of Pool Water
8-6-7-5: Sanitary Premises And Facilities
8-6-8: Noisy Conditions Prohibited
8-6-9: Inspections
8-6-10: Exemptions From Provisions
8-6-11: Penalties
8-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL
SWIMMING POOL ORDINANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF GOLF. (Ord., 10-1966)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL: Any swimming or wading pool over two feet
(2') in depth, or with a surface area exceeding two hundred fifty (250) square
feet. This shall include portable or temporary type pools, hot tubs and spas
installed entirely above ground; except that installation permits and drawings
and plans shall not apply to such pools. (Ord., 10-1966; amd. 2003 Code)
8-6-3: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING AND ZONING REGULATIONS:
Private residential swimming pools, as regulated by this chapter, shall be
permitted, providing no portion of pool, pumps, filters and housing violate
existing building regulations 1  and shall comply with minimum side line, rear
yard and setback requirements of the Golf zoning ordinance 2 , for buildings
and structures. (Ord., 10-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
2 2. See title 9 of this code.
8-6-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful to install, enlarge or alter any private residential
swimming pool within the village unless a permit therefor shall first have been
obtained from the building commissioner and from other governmental bodies
having jurisdiction in the premises. The permit fee for the erection,
construction or alteration of a private residential swimming pool shall be ten
dollars ($10.00) plus one dollar ($1.00) for each one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) valuation thereof as determined by the plans and specifications
submitted with the application for permit. (Ord., 10-1966)
8-6-5: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Location: No portion of a pool or any of its equipment or appurtenances
shall be located at a distance of less than six feet (6') from any side or rear
property line, and pools must have a walk of at least two feet (2') on all
sides. Pumps, filters, etc., will follow village regulations according to zoned
areas and be properly housed with minimum of noise.
   B.   Drawings And Plans: All drawings and plans for the construction,
installation, enlargement or alteration of any residential swimming pool and
appurtenances shall be presented to the building commissioner for examination
and approval as to location and construction. All drawings shall be complete,
showing the lot lines and including information pertaining to fence
construction, water supply system, liquid capacity, drainage and water disposal
system and all appurtenances to the pool.
   C.   Materials; Structural Design: Swimming pools shall be constructed of
impervious material. The pool structure shall be designed to withstand the
water pressure from within and to resist pressure of the earth when the pool is
empty against the forces to which it will be subjected. No pool shall be
constructed in such proximity to adjoining property as to cause a weakening of
any adjoining foundations or collapse of soil.
   D.   Plumbing And Electrical Regulations:
      1.   Private residential swimming pools, as controlled by this chapter,
shall comply with the present or hereafter adopted plumbing and electrical
codes 1 .
      2.   No current carrying electrical conductors shall cross swimming pools
either overhead or underground.
      3.   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to said
pools which might become electrically alive as a result of contact with broken
conductors or from any other cause shall be effectively grounded.
   E.   Steps Or Ladders: There shall be one or more means of egress in each
pool. Steps or ladders shall be constructed so as to be safe and sanitary.
Recesses which may support vegetable or animal life shall be avoided.
   F.   Floor Slope: Floor slope in the shallow end of the pool (up to 41/
2 feet) shall be sufficiently gradual to avoid slipping into deep water.
   G.   Lighting: Lights used to illuminate any swimming pool must be so
arranged and shaded as to reflect light away from adjoining premises.
   H.   Indoor Swimming Pools: Indoor swimming pools, in addition to the
relevant or pertinent requirements promulgated for outdoor pools, must also
have approval of the building commissioner in relation to ventilation, natural
and artificial lighting and the use of structural material. (Ord., 10-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-2 of this title.
8-6-6: FENCES:
All outdoor swimming areas or areas in which the pool is located shall be
completely enclosed by a fence or other physical barrier, in compliance with
section
8-5-4 of this title, adequate to restrain children. All openings or points of
entry into pool area enclosure shall be equipped with gates, and all gates
shall be equipped with a lockable latch where it will be inaccessible to small
children. (Ord., 10-1966; amd. 2003 Code)
8-6-7: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
8-6-7-1: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Skimmers: All private pools shall be equipped with hand or automatic
skimmers or approved overflow gutters.
   B.   Rescue Equipment: Every swimming pool shall be equipped with rescue
equipment including at least one or more light, strong poles with blunted ends
not less than twelve feet (12') in length or two-thirds (2/3) of the diameter
for circular pools, for making reach assistance or rescues. (Ord., 10-1966)
8-6-7-2: WATER SUPPLY:
Any source of water (public or private) used to fill the pool shall be equipped
with protection against accidental backflow or back siphonage from the pool
water. Its protection shall be in the nature of a freefall gap or other device
that will meet the approval of the building commissioner. Pools will be filled
with water by July 1. (Ord., 10-1966)
8-6-7-3: WATER CONDITION:
   A.   Water Treatment: Chlorine disinfectant in the form of sodium or calcium
hypochlorite shall be applied either by hand or by mechanical feeder as
frequently as needed to assure at least three-tenths (0.3) of a part per one
million (1,000,000) of chlorine residue throughout the pool volume while the
pool is in use. Other recognized or accredited methods of disinfecting the pool
water shall be permitted providing advance approval is granted by the health
officer. (Ord., 10-1966; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Acidity-Alkalinity pH: The water shall show a neutral or alkaline
reaction as indicated by a pH of seven to eight (7.0 to 8.0) at all times while
the pool is in use. A test kit with permanent color standards shall be provided
and be used by the owner at frequent intervals to check on the adequacy of
disinfection and determine the acidity or alkalinity of the water. (Ord., 10-
1966)
8-6-7-4: DRAINAGE OF POOL WATER:
Disposal or discharge of pool wastewater must be accomplished through no more
than a two inch (2") discharge valve in such a way that nuisance or damage to
other property is avoided when discharged into storm or combined sewers. Care
must be taken to avoid overtaxing the capacity of such sewers. (Ord., 10-1966;
amd. 1989 Code)
8-6-7-5: SANITARY PREMISES AND FACILITIES:
The buildings, grounds and all other pool facilities shall be kept clean and in
a sanitary condition and maintained free from garbage, trash and other refuse.
(Ord., 10-1966)
8-6-8: NOISY CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made any
unreasonable or loud noise. (Ord., 10-1966)
8-6-9: INSPECTIONS:
The health officer or his representative is hereby empowered to inspect any of
the said pools at reasonable times to determine compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and said pools are subject to inspection during the summer by
the health officer or appointee, and if found not meeting minimum health
standards, the pools shall be ordered closed for swimming and wading until the
standards are met, to the satisfaction of the health officer. (Ord., 10-1966;
amd. 1989 Code)
8-6-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of section
8-6-3 and subsection 8-6-5A of this chapter shall not apply to pools of a
permanent nature, constructed prior to effective date hereof. (Ord., 10-1966)
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to swimming pools that are owned by a club
and located on land zoned PCC property district 1 . (Ord. 68-7, 7-31-1968)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
8-6-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code)
Each and every violation, and each and every day or part thereof such violation
or failure to comply continues following three (3) days after notification
thereof is sent by registered mail, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
9410, 12-12-1994)
CHAPTER 7
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Prohibited And Restricted Signs
8-7-2: Permitted Signs
8-7-3: Penalties
8-7-1: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, organization or business to post and/or
display signs of any type or size within the village except as otherwise stated
in section
8-7-2 of this chapter.
Approval of any other signs or display thereof for civic events, public
celebrations, etc., shall be at the sole discretion of the village board of
trustees. (Ord., 6-9-1986; amd. 1989 Code)
8-7-2: PERMITTED SIGNS:
   A.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary Signs On Private Property:
         a.   Only one temporary sign affixed directly to the ground may be
placed on property, or on the nearest parkway, which is for sale or where an
event such as a garage sale or party is being held. (Ord. 99-1, 3-8-1999)
         b.   Such sign shall not exceed two feet by three feet (2' x 3') in
size.
         c.   Such sign shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours of the
acceptance of an offer to buy property for sale or the conclusion of an event;
no property in the village is to be used as a commercial off site advertising
location.
      2.   Temporary Signs On Public Property: Additional temporary signs of
similar size may be placed on village property for a period not to exceed
twelve (12) hours on the day of the event.
   B.   Permanent Signs: Permanent signs of two hundred (200) square inches or
less, such as owner's name, beware of dog, etc., shall be exempt from this
chapter. (Ord., 6-9-1986; amd. 1989 Code)
8-7-3: PENALTIES:
Any person, organization or business violating this chapter shall be subject to
a class A penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 6-9-1986; amd. 1989 Code)
Each and every violation, and each and every day or part thereof such violation
or failure to comply continues following three (3) days after notification
thereof is sent by registered mail, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
9410, 12-12-1994)
CHAPTER 8
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: Interpretations
8-8-4: Duties Of Enforcement Official(s)
8-8-5: Base Flood Elevations
8-8-6: Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
8-8-7: Occupation And Use Of Designated Floodways
8-8-8: Occupation And Use Of SFHA Areas Where Floodways Are Not Identified
8-8-9: Permit Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas
8-8-10: Variances
8-8-11: Disclaimer Of Liability
8-8-12: Penalty
8-8-13: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this village
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, and 5/11-30-
8 and 5/11-31-2. The purpose of this chapter is to maintain this village's
eligibility in the national flood insurance program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources. This chapter is adopted in
order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g, the
rivers, lakes and streams act;
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program;
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
   H.   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources;
   I.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACT: An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the state of Illinois 1 .
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in subsection 8-8-7B of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in section
8-8-5 of this chapter.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. This term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless fully licensed and ready for highway
use.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Reconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this chapter, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that FEMA
will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR/
OWR, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency flood
discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss of
flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in
velocities.
   A.   The floodways are designated for the west fork of the north branch of
the Chicago River on the flood boundary and floodway map prepared by FEMA (or
the department of housing and urban development) and dated August 19, 2008, and
for the west fork of the north branch of the Chicago River on the regulatory
floodplain map prepared by IDNR/OWR and dated August 19, 2008. When two (2)
floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limits shall
prevail.
   B.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village that may be annexed
into the village are designated for the west fork of the north branch of the
Chicago River on the flood boundary and floodway map prepared by FEMA (or
department of housing and urban development) and dated August 19, 2008, and for
the west fork of the north branch of the Chicago River on the regulatory
floodplain map prepared by IDNR/OWR and dated August 19, 2008.
   C.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for interpretation.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for less than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges
or similar projects.
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
Development does not include maintenance of existing buildings and facilities
such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevation, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes including state, federal or local units of
government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79
effective as of September 29, 1989. This incorporation does not include any
later editions or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus eighteen inches (18") of freeboard at any given location
in the SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
   A.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
The SFHAs of the village are generally identified as such on the flood
insurance rate map of the village prepared by the federal emergency management
agency (or the U.S. department of housing and urban development) and dated
August 19, 2008.
   B.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into
the village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map
prepared for Cook County by the federal emergency management agency (or the
U.S. department of housing and urban development) and dated August 19, 2008.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency;
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: The Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM) or FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured homes" also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational
vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which floodplain development activities might have on the public health, safety
and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory storage, soil erosion
and sedimentation control and channel restoration. Mitigation may also include
those activities taken to reduce a structure's susceptibility to flooding.
NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
national geodetic survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATER: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition, were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs, backwaters
and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of water directly
accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois,
under the Illinois land surveyors act 2 .
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act 3 .
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map as
zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, E, D or X.
STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days unless they are fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: A building is considered substantially damaged when it
sustains damage from any cause (fire, flood, earthquake, etc.), whereby the
cost of fully restoring the structure would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the predamage market value of the structure, regardless of the actual repair
work performed.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: 1) before the improvement or repair is
started; or 2) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either: 1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or 2) any alteration of a historic structure, provided
that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as
a historic structure.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-
2000; amd. Ord. 08-11-08, 8-11-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 615 ILCS 5/4.9 et seq.
2 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
3 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
8-8-3: INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   The village engineer shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the
duties listed in section
8-8-4 of this chapter.
   B.   To fulfill those duties, the village engineer shall first use the
criteria listed in section
8-8-5 of this chapter to determine whether the development site is located
within a floodplain.
   C.   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a floodplain,
the village engineer must determine whether the development site is within a
flood fringe, a designated floodway, or within an SFHA or floodplain for which
no floodway has been identified.
      1.   If the site is within a flood fringe, the village engineer shall
require that the minimum requirements of section
8-8-6 of this chapter be met.
      2.   If the site is within a floodway, the village engineer shall require
that the minimum requirements of section
8-8-7 of this chapter be met.
      3.   If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the village engineer shall
require that the minimum requirements of section
8-8-8 of this chapter be met.
   D.   In addition, the general requirements of section
8-8-9 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
8-8-6,
8-8-7 or
8-8-8 of this chapter.
   E.   The village engineer shall assure that all subdivision proposals shall
meet the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the village engineer
shall review the requirements of section
8-8-10 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the applicant
shall complete all notification requirements.
   G.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the village engineer may take any and all actions as outlined in
section
8-8-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-4: DUTIES OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL(S):
The village engineer shall be responsible for the general administration and
enforcement of this chapter, which shall include the following:
   A.   Determining Floodplain Designation:
      1.   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      2.   If they are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
      3.   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended SFHA
(with a drainage area less than one square mile), indicating that the
development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance or
inundation, which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review:
      1.   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a registered professional engineer
under the employ or contract of the village for review to ensure that the
development meets the requirements of section
8-8-7 or
8-8-8 of this chapter.
      2.   In the case of an appropriate use, the professional engineer shall
state in writing that the development meets the requirements of section
8-8-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements:
      1.   Ensure that an IDNR/OWR permit has been issued or a letter
indicating no permit is required, if the proposed development activity includes
construction of a "dam", as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance:
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter, and
      2.   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   F.   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including:
      1.   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject
to section
8-8-9 of this chapter; and/or
      2.   The elevation to which a nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
section
8-8-9 of this chapter.
   H.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and as
built elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   I.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to sections
8-8-7 and
8-8-8 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures, as defined in
section
8-8-2 of this chapter, and all other state, federal or local unit of government
projects, including projects of the village and county, except for those
projects meeting the requirements of subsection 8-8-7B7 of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection 8-8-7B3e of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection 8-8-
7B3d of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections 8-8-7B3a, B3b and B3h of this
chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within, under or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   J.   Cooperation With Other Agencies:
      1.   Cooperate with state and floodplain management agencies to improve
base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve the
administration of this chapter;
      2.   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map;
      3.   Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program;
and
      4.   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   K.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject, however, to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes. (Ord. 00-
10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
This chapter's protection standard is based on the flood insurance study for
the village. If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois state water
survey's floodplain information repository that has been approved by IDNR/OWR
and FEMA. When a party disagrees with the best available data, he may finance
the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better data
and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
the west fork of the north branch of the Chicago River shall be as delineated
on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the village
prepared by FEMA (or the department of housing and urban development) and dated
August 19, 2008, and such amendments of such study and maps as may be prepared
from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of Cook
County prepared by FEMA (or department of housing and urban development) and
dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to such study and maps
as may be prepared from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an AH zone or AO zone shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the flood insurance rate map of the village.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an A zone on the flood insurance rate map of the
village shall be according to the best existing data available in the Illinois
state water survey floodplain information repository.
      1.   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2, or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
      2.   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-1, TR-20 or HIP, or by techniques presented in
various publications prepared by the United States geological survey for
estimating peak flood discharges.
      3.   Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the above
analyses shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for approval. Once approved it must be
submitted to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information repository
for filing.
      4.   For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study and approved by IDNR/OWR for drainage areas greater than one
square mile.
      5.   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than one
square mile) which has been identified by the village engineer pursuant to
subsection 8-8-4A3 of this chapter, the base flood elevation shall be
determined by the applicant utilizing a method as approved in this subsection
D, with concurrence of the village engineer. (Ord. 08-11-08, 8-11-2008)
8-8-6: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of
section
8-8-9 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the village engineer.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village engineer.
         a.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929 adjusted datum or NGVD and all changes
in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and dimensions of
all buildings and additions to buildings.
         b.   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
8-8-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the village
engineer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation.
         a.   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
without a permit as required by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         b.   The village engineer shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification.
      4.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed area shall be
submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
      5.   The village engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
village engineer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state and
local permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
      1.   Removal Of Site: If fill is being used to elevate the site above the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      2.   Compensatory Storage:
         a.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         b.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         c.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         d.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         e.   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS:
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
for the west fork of the north branch of the Chicago River shall be as
delineated on the designated floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR according to
and referenced in section
8-8-2 of this chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of section
8-8-9 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the village engineer and IDNR/OWR.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village engineer. The application shall include the following
information:
         a.   Name and address of applicant;
         b.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         c.   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         d.   Description of proposed activity;
         e.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         f.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         g.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
         h.   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
         i.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         j.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
         k.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
         l.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
            (1)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale and north arrow;
            (2)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD
or North American vertical datum, adjacent property lines and ownership,
drainage and flood control easements, location of any channels and any existing
or future access roads, distance between proposed activity and navigation
channel (when the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body
of water), designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and
dimensions of any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of
cross sections, north arrow and a graphic or numerical scale;
            (3)   Cross section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
            (4)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance;
            (5)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
         m.   Any and all other federal, state and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
         n.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection B of
this section.
         o.   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
         p.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a
registered professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land
surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
8-8-9 of this chapter.
         q.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
            (1)   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed
work;
            (2)   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative
locations or methods (see subsection B3i(1) of this section) to accomplish the
purpose of the proposed work;
            (3)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection B3i(1) of this section would have
on the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected; and
            (4)   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project,
considering cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the
body of water affected.
      2.   The village engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits and approvals
that may be required for this type of activity.
         a.   The village engineer shall not issue the development permit
unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
         b.   A registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract
of the village, shall review and approve applications reviewed under this
section.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages; List Of Appropriate Uses: The only
development in a floodway which will be allowed are appropriate uses, which
will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and which will not create a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or be a
threat to public health and safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic
and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter. Only
those appropriate uses listed in 92 Illinois administrative code part 708 will
be allowed. The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and taxiways and any
modification thereto;
Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive nonerosive
slope toward a watercourse;
Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory structures
that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or private
improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or water
quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful structures
including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating structures, or
construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or industrial
principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be no more
than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing structure, and,
which are not considered substantial improvements to the structure;
Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the enclosed
floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood elevation, and
which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to, fireplaces, bay
windows, decks, patios and second story additions. If the building improved to
fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the modification
occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will be protected from
flooding to the flood protection elevation;
Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed one
foot (1.0');
or
The applicant of a short term recreational use facility parking lot, formally
agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events and accepts liability
for all damage caused by vehicular access during all overbank flooding events.
Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems, including any
related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any one direction)
built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open air
pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will not block flood
flows nor reduce floodway storage;
Replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building, provided that the
outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building was damaged to fifty
percent (50%) or more of the market value before the damage occurred, the
building will be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation;
Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access to, the
water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities, and facilities
and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial shipping and other
functionally water dependent uses;
Underground and overhead utilities.
      1.   Alternative:
         a.   Public flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public
works or private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding of
existing structures, erosion or water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         b.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as instream aeration and similar
treatment facilities, facilities and improvements related to recreational
boating, and commercial shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         c.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls;
         d.   Underground and overhead utilities;
         e.   Public open space and recreational facilities such as playing
fields and trail systems including any related fencing (at least 50 percent
open when viewed from any one direction) built parallel to the direction of
flood flows, and including open air pavilions;
         f.   Bridges, culverts, and associated roadways, sidewalks, and
railways, necessary for crossing over the floodway or for providing access to
other appropriate uses in the floodway and any modification thereto;
         g.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
         h.   In the case of damaged or replacement buildings, reconstruction
or repairs made to a building that are valued at less than fifty percent (50%)
of the market value of the building before it was damaged or replaced, and
which does not increase the outside dimensions of the building.
      2.   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise nonappropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      3.   Within the designated floodway as identified on the floodway maps
designated by IDNR/OWR, the construction of an appropriate use will be
considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets the following
engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting
plans, calculations and data by a registered professional engineer and provided
that any structure meets the protection requirements of section
8-8-9 of this chapter:
         a.   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance So As Not To Increase Flood
Stages Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on-stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            (1)   Designated floodway conveyance, "K" = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where
"n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Open
Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York).
            (2)   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
            (3)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in
calculations of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following
expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer
can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more
abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
               (A)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used.
               (D)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross
sections with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated
floodway delineation on adjacent properties.
               (E)   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be
located perpendicular to flood flows.
         b.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding:
            (1)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
            (2)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least one and one-half (1.5) times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
            (3)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
            (4)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
            (5)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall
demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through a determination of flood discharges and water
surface elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
            (6)   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at existing structure.
         c.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights:
            (1)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on-
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
            (2)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of riprap or other design measures.
         d.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches:
            (1)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements.
            (2)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than 0.1 feet, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a
permit for a dam or waiver.
               (A)   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in section
8-8-5 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
hydraulic chart for the selection of highway culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/federal highway administration hydraulics of bridge
waterways calculation procedures.
               (B)   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per
subsection B3b of this section.
               (C)   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection B3c of
this section.
               (D)   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is
used for recreational or commercial navigation, and IDNR/OWR permit must be
received.
               (E)   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the
bridge showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this
subsection B.
               (F)   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall
be designed per subsection B3h of this section.
         e.   Reconstruction Or Modification of Existing Bridges, Culverts And
Approach Roads:
            (1)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
            (2)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            (3)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 92 Illinois administrative code part 708 (floodway construction
in northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
         f.   On-Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water:
            (1)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot
when compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and
including the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel
banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as
within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within
recorded flood easements.
            (2)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must
be obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
            (3)   All dams and impoundment structures, as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter, shall meet the permitting requirements of 92 Illinois
administrative code part 702 (construction and maintenance of dams). If the
proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to
accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
               (A)   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest
by providing flood control, public recreation or regional stormwater detention;
               (B)   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of
indigenous fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of
their life cycle, such as for spawning;
               (C)   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded
water quality of habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual
bank slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation
basin;
               (D)   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
               (E)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of
this section.
         g.   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures:
            (1)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of
the existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building.
            (2)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be
required for floodproofing.
         h.   Excavation In The Floodway:
            (1)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and
culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing
bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other
appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
            (2)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
               (A)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length; and
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used.
               (D)   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream
and downstream of the transition sections.
         i.   Channel Modifications: If the proposed activity involves a
channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)   There are not practicable alternatives to the activity, which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment of
a stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat;
            (2)   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            (3)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
               (A)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
               (B)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at
both the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they
will prevent erosion.
               (C)   One sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
               (D)   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to
that which is essential for construction of the channel.
               (E)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Native vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as concrete,
gabions or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
               (F)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
               (G)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, such features
shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
               (H)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end
of the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
               (I)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and
all items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
               (J)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
               (K)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification; and
            (4)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
         j.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         k.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in
the floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
            (1)   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the
maximum vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the
time soil is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural
vegetation be destroyed, removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior
to the initiation of improvements.
            (2)   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be
applied to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization
shall be provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any
portion of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may
not be at final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60)
days.
            (3)   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment traps and basins.
            (4)   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25')
in width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along
existing channels (See subsection B3p of this section). Construction vehicle
use of channels shall be constructed, where necessary, to minimize erosion.
Necessary construction in or along channels shall be restabilized immediately.
            (5)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with procedures and standards for urban
soil erosion and sedimentation control in Illinois (1988) also known as the
green book and the Illinois urban manual (NRCS, 1995).
         l.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         m.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
            (1)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in section
8-8-5 of this chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the
study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be
contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data
to use.
            (2)   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
               (A)   The requirements of this section for the 100-year
frequency flood elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
               (B)   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
            (3)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         n.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision:
            (1)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
            (2)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as-built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
            (3)   In the case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
            (4)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavation shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
            (5)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
         o.   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional
engineer.
         p.   Construction Activities In Floodway: For all activities in the
floodway involving construction within fifteen feet (15') of the channel, the
following criteria shall be met:
            (1)   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within
at least fifteen feet (15') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
            (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during
the construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         q.   Commence Construction: After receipt of conditional approval of
the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit and a conditional
letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change the floodway
designation may proceed but no buildings or structures or other construction
that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until the designated
floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is received. The
designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and concurrence by
IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the as-built plans.
      4.   Development Activities In Delegated Communities Requiring State
Review: For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or county
delegated state permitting authority in the floodway.
         a.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to subsection B3d of this section.
         b.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection B3e of this section.
         c.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
storage pursuant to subsection B3a, B3b and B3h of this section.
         d.   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams, as defined in
section
8-8-2 of this chapter, and all other state, federal or local units of
government projects, including projects of the municipality or county.
         e.   An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
         f.   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
         g.   Projects in public bodies of water.
      5.   Other Permits:
         a.   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq.
         b.   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated this responsibility to the village.
      6.   Permits For Dams:
         a.   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
"dam", as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter, per 92 Illinois administrative code part 702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam.
         b.   If the village engineer finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/
OWR permit, the village engineer shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR
Schaumburg office.
         c.   If the village engineer finds a dam which is believed to be in
unsafe condition, the village engineer shall immediately notify the owner of
the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office, and the Illinois emergency management
agency (IEMA).
      7.   Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements:
         a.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
or
            (2)   Do not require the placement of above ground structures in
the floodway; or
            (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed; and
            (4)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the
estimated 100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of
an existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting
towers shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as not to
catch debris;
            (5)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
            (6)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 1  shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
            (7)   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
codes and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
         b.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
            (1)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope; and
            (2)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation;
            (3)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
         c.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
         d.   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
            (1)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
            (2)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
            (3)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
            (4)   Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side
slopes are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems.
Where high channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use
of alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
         e.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
            (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
            (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall
be nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
            (4)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
            (5)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5 (1992 state bar edition).
8-8-8: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHA or floodplains, (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A zones) where no
floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
   A.   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or floodplain without
first obtaining a development permit from the village engineer.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village engineer.
         a.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of
section
8-8-9 of this chapter.
         b.   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            (1)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose,
and intended use;
            (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            (3)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            (4)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which
include as a minimum:
               (A)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of
the waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site,
graphic or numerical scale and north arrow;
               (B)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure of work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow and a
graphical or numerical scale;
               (C)   Cross section views of the project perpendicular to the
flow of floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed
conditions including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view,
existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency
flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical
scales (horizontal and vertical); and
               (D)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for
disturbed areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of
grading activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to
be implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
         c.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection B of this
section.
         d.   Any and all other federal, state and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      3.   Based on the best available existing data according to the Illinois
state water survey's floodplain information repository, the village engineer
shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
         a.   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection 8-8-
5D of this chapter.
         b.   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
         c.   The building official shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
      4.   The village engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
village engineer shall not issue the development permit unless all required
federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages:
      1.   No development in the SFHA, where a floodway has not been determined
shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or
velocity or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter.
      2.   Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been
determined, the following standards shall apply:
         a.   The developer shall have a registered professional engineer state
in writing and show through supporting plans, calculations and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of subsections 8-8-7B3a through B3l
of this chapter for the entire floodplain as calculated under the provisions of
subsection 8-8-5D of this chapter.
            (1)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR for acceptance as a designated floodway.
            (2)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR, the developer
shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of section
8-8-7 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be
defined according to the definition in section
8-8-2 of this chapter.
         b.   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant
first obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written documentation that a permit is
not required form IDNR/OWR.
         c.   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated permit responsibility to the village per 92 Illinois administrative
code part 708 for designated floodways.
         d.   Permits for dams:
            (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a "dam", as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter, per 92 Illinois administrative code part 702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam.
            (2)   If the village engineer finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the village engineer shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR
Schaumburg office.
            (3)   If the village engineer finds a dam which is believed to be
in unsafe condition, the village engineer shall immediately notify the owner of
the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office and the Illinois emergency management
agency (IEMA).
      3.   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review or calculation of a base flood elevation and
designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this chapter:
         a.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
or
            (2)   Do not require the placement of above ground structures in
the floodway; or
            (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed; and
            (4)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the
estimated 100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of
an existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting
towers shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as not to
catch debris.
            (5)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation.
            (6)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 1  shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
            (7)   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
codes and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
         b.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
            (1)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope; and
            (2)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
            (3)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
         c.   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
            (1)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
            (2)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
            (3)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
            (4)   Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side
slopes are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems.
Where high channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use
of alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
         d.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)   The approach will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
            (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
            (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall
be nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
            (4)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
            (5)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization.
         e.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         f.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         g.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports built at or below existing
grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
         h.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension
(e.g., animal shelters and tool sheds);
         i.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to the
flow of floodwaters;
         j.   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
            (1)   The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet
(1,000');
            (2)   The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural
stream channels; or
            (3)   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
      4.   The flood carrying capacity within any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
      5.   Compensatory storage:
         a.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         b.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         c.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         d.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 00-10, 11-
11-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5 (1992 state bar edition).
8-8-9: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
8-8-6,
8-8-7 and
8-8-8 of this chapter for development in flood fringes, designed floodways and
SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zone A, AO, AH,
AE, AI-A30, V99, VO, VI-30, VE, V, M, E, D or X), the following requirements
shall be met:
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE).
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other above ground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   B.   Carrying Capacity And Notification:
      1.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained. In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities
in writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the
alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings:
      1.   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain also known as an
SFHA, and all buildings located outside the 100-year floodplain but within the
500-year floodplain, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood
protection elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the
following situations:
         a.   Construction or placement of a new building;
         b.   A structural alteration to an existing building that either
increases the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or is a
substantial improvement (exceeding the building's market value by more than 50
percent). This alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with an
alteration which has taken place subsequent to April 1, 1990;
         c.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirement
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         d.   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days.
This building protection requirement may be met by one of the following
methods.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   Fill requirements:
            (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
(1') deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation.
            (2)   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural
engineer certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages
due to hydrostatic pressures.
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
            (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties.
      3.   A residential or nonresidential building, may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than
one foot (1') above existing grade, and consists of a minimum of two (2)
openings. The openings must have a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the
base flood elevation.
         b.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         c.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement.
         e.   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation; and shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tie down act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes
shall meet the following elevation requirements:
            (1)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; b) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
         f.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection C3e of this section
unless:
            (1)   They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
            (2)   They are fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utility and
service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      4.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided that:
         a.   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight and
capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
         b.   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice.
         c.   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this subsection).
      5.   Tool sheds and detached garages on an existing single-family platted
lot, may be constructed with the lowest floor below the flood protection
elevation in accordance with the following:
         a.   The building is not used for human habitation.
         b.   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of section
8-8-7 of this chapter. In addition, all other requirements of sections
8-8-6,
8-8-7 and
8-8-8 of this chapter must be met.
         c.   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation.
         d.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
         e.   The building shall be valued at less than seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500.00) and be less than five hundred (500) square feet in
floor size.
         f.   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar uses.
         g.   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
subsection C3a of this section.
      6.   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in section
8-8-7 of this chapter. Nonconforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with subsection 8-8-7B of this chapter. A nonconforming
structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other natural or manmade disaster may
be restored unless the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market value
before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to this chapter. (Ord.
00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-10: VARIANCES:
   A.   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
"designated floodway", as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter.
      1.   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board for
a variance.
      2.   The village engineer shall review the applicant's request for a
variance and make a report to the zoning board and shall submit its
recommendation to the village board of trustees.
   B.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities;
      6.   The provisions of subsections 8-8-6B and 8-8-8B of this chapter
shall still be met;
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway;
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses.
   C.   The village engineer shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of section
8-8-9 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceeds with knowledge of these risks
and that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
   D.   Variances requested in connection with restoration of an historic site
or historic structure, as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of subsections B and C of this section, subject to the conditions
that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-11: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   B.   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes.
   C.   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   D.   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord.
00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a
variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the village engineer may determine that a violation of the
minimum standards of this chapter exists. The village engineer shall notify the
owner in writing of such violation. If such owner fails, after ten (10) days'
notice, to correct the violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   B.   The village engineer shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended. If such owner
fails, after ten (10) days' notice, to correct the violation:
      1.   The village engineer is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing,
shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop
work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      2.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state: a) the grounds for
complaint or reasons for suspension or revocation; and b) the time and place of
the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning
board of appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
8-8-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   B.   Where this chapter and other ordinance, easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   C.   This chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution
which was adopted to meet the national flood insurance program regulations, but
is not intended to repeal the resolution which the village passed in order to
establish initial eligibility for the program. (Ord. 00-10, 11-11-2000)
TITLE 9
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title And Purpose
9-1-2: Interpretation
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-4: Site And Structure Regulations
9-1-5: Floor Area Ratios
9-1-6: Accessory Buildings And Structures
9-1-7: Zoning Lots And Minimum Lot Size
9-1-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This title, including the zoning map made a part hereof, shall
be known and may be cited and referred to as the GOLF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: This title is adopted for the following purposes:
To promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of
the citizens of the Village of Golf;
To conserve the values of property throughout the Village of Golf and to
protect the character and stability of its zoning districts;
To promote orderly and beneficial development in accordance with the optimum
development of the Chicago metropolitan region and in furtherance of the
Comprehensive Plan for the development of the Village of Golf;
To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to property;
To lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and highways in the Village
of Golf and surrounding areas;
To regulate and restrict the location and use of buildings, structures and land
for trade, industry, residence and other uses, and to regulate and restrict the
intensity of such uses;
To divide the Village of Golf into districts of such number, shape, area, and
of such different classes, according to the use of land and buildings and the
intensity of such use, as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes
of this title;
To prohibit locations and uses of buildings or structures and uses of land that
are incompatible with the type of development planned for specified zoning
districts in the Village of Golf;
To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing buildings or
structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations lawfully
imposed hereunder;
To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other dangers; and
To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall conform.
(Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-1-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In interpreting and applying the provisions of
this title, they shall be held as the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general
welfare.
   B.   Effect On Other Laws And Agreements: It is not intended by this title
to interfere with, abrogate or annul any ordinance or rules, regulations or
permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this title or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law
relating to the use of buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this title
to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other
agreements between the parties; provided, however, that where this title
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the
height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required
by such ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or by easements, covenants
or agreements, the provisions of this title shall control. (Ord., 4-22-1943;
amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined as
provided in this section.
Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the singular
number include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the
singular number. The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary, and the
word "may" is permissive.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A detached subordinate building or structure,
the use of which is incidental to and located on the same zoning lot as that of
a principal building.
AVERAGE SETBACK: Except as herein otherwise provided, the average setback for
any interior lot or through lot shall be determined by taking the average of
the setbacks of the buildings on the lots on both sides of, contiguous to and
having frontage on the same street as the interior lot or through lot. For a
corner lot, when there is more than one lot in the same block having frontage
on the same street as the corner lot, then the average setback shall be the
average of the setbacks of the buildings on the two (2) lots in such block
nearest to the corner lot. For a corner lot, when there is only one lot in the
same block having frontage on the same street as the corner lot, then such
corner lot shall have no average setback determined for such street; however, a
corner lot in such circumstances may be subject to an average setback from the
other street which it shares with more than one lot. For purposes of measuring
distances from street walls: a) the street wall on any lot shall be measured
from the nearest point of the principal building to the street line; b) if a
lot is improved with any principal building that is less than forty feet (40')
from the street line, then the distance of forty feet (40') shall be used; c)
if a lot shall become vacant and would otherwise be used to calculate average
setback for another lot, then the average setback calculation shall be made
using the minimum street setback dimension applicable to the vacant lot as
determined in accordance with this title; and d) when used herein, having
"frontage" on a lot means only that the building or street wall is facing a
street, and not that the street in question is the front line of the lot, and
thus the distances from buildings on contiguous lots may be measured to the
street line even though such contiguous lots take their address from a
different street than does the lot for which the average setback is being
calculated.
BUILDING: A structure that is substantially enclosed by exterior walls, has a
roof supported by uprights or walls, is separated from every other building by
at least a party wall, is permanently affixed to the ground, and is intended
for the shelter, protection, housing or enclosure of any persons, animals,
equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its
accessory buildings, excluding open steps, terraces, cornices and roof overhang
projecting not more than eighteen inches (18").
CORNER LOT: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets.
DEPTH OF LOT: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
DEPTH OF REAR YARD: The mean horizontal distance between the rear line of the
building and the rear lot line.
FAMILY: Any number of closely related individuals and their servants living and
cooking together on the premises as a single housekeeping unit.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR) 1 : The floor area/square footage of all buildings and
structures on a lot divided by the area/square footage of the lot on which they
are located.
FRONT YARD: A yard or unoccupied space on the same lot with any building or
structure extending along the entire length of the front lot line back to a
line drawn parallel with said front lot line at a distance equal to the depth
of the permissible building setback or the actual building line of any existing
building. On corner lots, all yards which abut a street shall be deemed front
yards.
GARAGE: A portion of the principal building or a detached accessory building
that is intended for and used to store the private vehicles of the family
residents upon the premises and in which no business service, or industry
connected directly or indirectly with automotive vehicles is carried on.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance measured from the midpoint of the
street closest to the front entrance of the building to the midpoint of the
roof; to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line for
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves and ridge) for
gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
INTERIOR LOT: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by one building and accessory buildings
and uses and including the open spaces required under these regulations. A lot
may be land so recorded on the records of Cook County, Illinois, or may be a
part of or a combination of lots so recorded.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot", as defined herein.
LOT, OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois,
or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been
separately established by the recording of a deed in the Office of the Recorder
of Deeds and which meets all the requirements for the proposed use.
LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land located within a single block which is
designated by the Village on the adopted zoning map, or which at the time of
filing an application for a building use permit is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control, and which meets all the requirements for the
proposed use.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or premises lawfully occupied for a use that does
not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building in which is conducted the primary or dominant
use of the lot on which it is located.
REAR YARD: An open space (unoccupied except for accessory buildings) on the
same lot with a building between the rear line of a building and the rear line
of the lot for the full width of the lot except as modified by side yard
restrictions. On a corner lot which abuts two (2) streets, the rear yard shall
be opposite and parallel to the shorter front lot line. On a corner lot which
abuts three (3) streets, the remaining yard shall be a rear yard if it abuts a
rear yard, and it shall be a side yard if it abuts a side yard.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the street wall or walls of
the building and the street line. The street line is the edge of pavement of
the street or the back of curb, when curb and gutter are present.
SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between the
main wall of the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the
front lot line to the rear yard. Bay windows may be included in said side yard.
STREET WALL: The main wall nearest to and facing on a street, including sun
parlors, but not including bay windows nor ground story open porches nor
piazzas that are not closed in.
STRUCTURE: An improvement upon land, other than the land itself, the use of
which requires more or less permanent location on the ground or attachment to
something having a permanent location on the ground, including, but not limited
to, buildings, accessory buildings, sheds, swimming pools, spas, gazebos,
fences, freestanding signs, patios, decks, parking areas and playhouses.
THROUGH LOT: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets which run generally
parallel or, in any event, do not intersect in a manner so that the junction
thereof bounds the lot. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 00-01, 6-12-
2000; 2003 Code; Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003; Ord. 2009-22, 12-14-2009; Ord. 2011-02,
5-9-2011; Ord. 2017-06, 9-11-2017; Ord. 2018-03, 1-8-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-5 of this chapter.
9-1-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Restrictions: Except for land classified as PCC Property
District and except as hereinafter provided:
      1.   Use: No building shall be erected or altered, nor shall any building
or premises be used for any purpose other than permitted in the district in
which such building or premises is located.
      2.   Height: The following height restrictions are applicable within the
Village:
         a.   No principal building in the A Residence District shall be
erected or altered to exceed thirty feet (30') in height, nor exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories.
         b.   No principal building in the B Residence District shall be
erected or altered to exceed twenty eight feet (28') in height, nor exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories.
         c.   The maximum height of the finished first floor above grade, as
measured at the midpoint of the established grade at the front of a principal
building, shall be three feet (3').
      3.   Area Regulations: No building shall be erected, nor shall any
existing building be altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open spaces
surrounding any building be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in
conformity with the area regulations hereby established for the district in
which such building is located.
      4.   No Double Counting Of Yards: No yard, court or other open space
provided about any principal building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of these regulations shall again be used as a yard, court or other
open space for another principal building.
      5.   No Corner View Obstruction: On any corner lot, no accessory building
or structure, fence, hedge or other obstruction shall be placed in the required
setback area or side yard adjoining the side street so as to interfere with the
clear vision from one street to the street across the corner.
   B.   Street Setback Restrictions: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
title relating to minimum building and structure setbacks, the required minimum
setback from a street for any building, principal or accessory, on a lot shall
be forty feet (40') or the average setback determined for such lot, whichever
is greater, except as follows:
      1.   Exception To Average Setback: Notwithstanding an average setback of
greater than forty feet (40'), a new principal building may occupy any portion
of the footprint of the former principal building, if any, existing on the lot
before such new construction, as disclosed by a sealed plat of survey, as long
as the new building observes a minimum setback of forty feet (40') from the
street within the area of such footprint. Additions to a building, principal or
accessory, shall observe the required minimum street setback applicable to the
lot at the time of the addition.
      2.   Other Building Lines: If a lot is subject to any platted building
line or other recorded agreement or covenant establishing a setback, then the
required minimum street setback shall be the platted building line or other
recorded setback, provided that the required minimum street setback shall not
be less than forty feet (40').
      3.   Petitions: Where owners of all properties in the block petition in
writing for the establishment of a building line within that block, which
building line differs from that which would otherwise be established by the
provisions of this section, the Zoning Board of Appeals may, after due notice
and hearings, recommend to the Village Board the adoption of the building line
proposed by the petitioners.
      4.   Street Setback Exceptions: The required minimum street setbacks
required in this subsection B are reduced when expressly so authorized in
section
9-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 1-8-2018)
9-1-5: FLOOR AREA RATIOS:
   A.   Floor Area Ratio Calculations: The following shall be included in the
calculation of floor area for the purposes of determining floor area ratio in
residential zoning districts:
      1.   All gross square footage of each floor above grade. A maximum of
sixty four (64) total square feet shall be excluded from this computation for
balconies or similar projections that are four feet (4') deep or less.
      2.   Roofed porches, including areas with open roof trellises.
      3.   Open porches, across all or part of the elevation of a house facing
a street, that are greater than eight feet (8') deep.
      4.   Garages, sheds and gazebos, whether permanently fixed to the ground
or freestanding.
      5.   That gross square footage of a basement with a ceiling in excess of
three feet six inches (3'6") above grade.
      6.   Those portions of house attics, finished or unfinished, that have a
clearance equal to or greater than seven feet (7') in height, even if the space
is interrupted with crossties or has a truss design.
      7.   Open wood decks if the floor is more than three feet six inches
(3'6") above grade.
      8.   Sun or other decks with rails higher than three feet six inches
(3'6") on any floor of the house.
      9.   Open courtyards surrounded eighty five percent (85%) or more by
perimeter walls.
      10.   The square footage of interior stairwells for each floor on which
they are located.
      11.   Those portions of cathedral ceilings that are fourteen feet (14')
or more in height shall be counted as two (2) stories.
   B.   Floor Area Ratio Guidelines; Review And Approval:
      1.   A completed floor area ratio worksheet is required for each lot on
which a new building or structure is proposed or on which modifications are
proposed to an existing building or structure (i.e., additions) that would
increase the floor area from that which presently exists.
      2.   Copies of plats of survey, building plans and other drawings as
necessary to demonstrate the basis of computations must accompany the completed
floor area ratio worksheet. Additional support documentation shall be submitted
as required by the Village to complete the review.
      3.   Worksheets prepared in conjunction with the construction of a new
residential home or addition, etc., must be certified by an engineer or
architect. Worksheets for other applications do not require certification.
      4.   All completed worksheets and support documentation must be submitted
to the Village with a building permit application.
      5.   Upon receiving a completed worksheet with all necessary support
documentation, the Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall, within
two (2) weeks, determine whether the proposed improvements comply with the
applicable floor area ratio requirement. (Ord. 00-01, 6-12-2000; amd. Ord. 03-
05, 9-8-2003)
9-1-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
An accessory building or structure that is secondary and incidental to a
permitted or approved special use within the A or B Zoning District may, in
accord with this chapter, be allowed to occupy the same lot as the principal
building. To qualify as an allowable accessory building or structure, it must
be maintained under the same ownership and on the same zoning lot as the
principal building. All accessory buildings and structures shall conform to the
applicable requirements of this title and to all other Village regulations,
including, but not limited to, the Building Code, Electrical Code and the Fire
Prevention Code.
   A.   Accessory buildings or structures shall not in the aggregate occupy
more than thirty percent (30%) of any required yard. An accessory building
which is used for a detached garage or pool house shall not exceed one thousand
one hundred twenty five (1,125) square feet. Any other accessory building or
structure shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet or, if applicable, the
maximum area authorized in table A of this section.
   B.   Accessory buildings and structures shall observe the minimum setback
from a street applicable to the principal building, except when a reduced
setback is authorized in table A of this section.
   C.   Accessory buildings and structures shall maintain a distance of at
least three feet (3') to the side lot line and five feet (5') to the rear lot
line, unless an existing easement requires a greater distance, and subject to
the observance of the required minimum street setback.
   D.   No accessory building or structure (other than a detached garage or
pool house) shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, except when a lesser
height is authorized in table A of this section. A detached garage or pool
house shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
   E.   Accessory buildings and structures shall not be located on or within a
drainage, access, utility or other easement created by a duly recorded
document.
   F.   No accessory building or structure shall be approved, established or
constructed until fifty percent (50%) or more of the principal use or structure
has been completed. In addition, no accessory building shall be used unless the
principal building on the lot is occupied.
   G.   No accessory building shall be used as a dwelling unit.
   H.   Permitted accessory buildings and structures and the development
standards for each are indicated in table A of this section. These standards
shall apply to all accessory buildings and structures, including those in
existence at the time of adoption of this table. Existing accessory buildings
and structures that do not comply with these standards shall be deemed
nonconforming, and subject to the provisions of chapter 6, "Nonconforming
Uses", of this title.
   I.   No outdoor storage shall be permitted in any district.
   J.   Every part of a required yard shall be open from its lowest point to
the sky unobstructed, except for the projections of sills, belt courses,
cornices, bay windows, eaves, chimneys and ornamental features not to exceed
eighteen inches (18") and except for the obstructions permitted in yards as set
forth in table A of this subsection (where P = permitted and NP = not
permitted):
   TABLE A
   PERMITTED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Allowable Accessory Buildings/Structures Development Standards Yards
                                                               Front Side Rear
Allowable Accessory    Development Standards    Yards
Buildings/Structures                            Front                Side Rear
Air conditioning/heat  Year-round landscaping   NP                   3'   5'
pump equipment         screening required
Antennas                                       NP                   3'   5'
Arbor or trellis                               NP                   3'   5'
Barbecue grill                                 NP                   3'   5'
Basketball hoop 1                              See note 1           3'   5'
Deck                   36" or less above grade  NP                   3'   5'
Dog run                                        NP                   0'   0'
Doghouse                                       NP                   3'   5'
Driveways and off-                             0'                   5'   5'
street parking
Fences                                         See note 2           0'3  0'3
Firewood                                       NP                   3'   5'
Flagpole                                       1/2 required setback 3'   5'
Garage, detached                               NP                   5'   5'
Garbage receptacle                             NP                   3'   5'
Garden shed                                    NP                   3'   5'
Generator              Year-round landscape     NP                   3'   5'
                       screening required
Greenhouse/gazebo/                             NP                   3'   5'
conservatory
Hot tub                                        NP                   3'   5'
                       Not to exceed 2 in
Light standards        number, and 6' in
(ornamental)           height, if placed at     P                    P    P
                       sidewalk or driveway
                       entrance to the lot
Mailbox                                        NP                   NP   NP
Patio/terrace at grade                         0'                   0'   0'
Play equipment                                 NP                   3'   5'
                       Up to 150 sq. ft. in
Playhouse/treehouse    area, but not allowed in NP                   3'   5'
                       front and side yards
                       abutting a street
Porch (unenclosed)     Same as principal                                 
                       building setbacks
Recreational vehicle                           NP                   NP   NP
Shed                                           NP                   3'   5'
Sports court (tennis)                          NP                   3'   5'
                       Steps/ramps to a disabled individual's residence may,
                       upon application, be classified as an "accessible
                       required structure" by the Zoning Board of Appeals upon
                       verifying the existence of the disability, in order to
Step and ramps         provide an accessible ramp or lift at the front or rear
                       entrance(s) to the disabled individual's residence. A
                       ramp or lift may be provided only while a disabled
                       individual resides in the residence and shall be
                       effectively screened from adjoining residences, if
                       possible
Swimming pool house                            NP                   3'   5'
 
Notes:
   1.    Front yard permitted, but no closer than 1/2 the distance between the
house and front lot line.
   2.    Fences are not allowed in front yards: a) except for certain lots
abutting Golf Road, the METRA right-of-way or Diederich Park and b) historic
fences are permitted in front yards of lots lying south of Briar Road and
having frontage on Overlook Drive, per the Village fence ordinance.
   3.    Fences allowed to be 6 feet in height, upon approval of a height
modification request, may require a 1 foot setback from the property line.
(Ord. 2018-03, 1-8-2018)
9-1-7: ZONING LOTS AND MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
   A.   Lots of record or portions thereof that are consolidated into a single
zoning lot are subject to the following rules. Once a tract of land has been
designated as a zoning lot, it may be used only in the manner permitted for a
lot of record, in the most restrictive zoning district wherein any part of the
tract of land is located; and further provided, that no subdivision of a zoning
lot may thereafter occur unless the area of each resulting lot is at least one-
half (1/2) acre and the resulting lots conform to the applicable requirements
of this title, the subdivision regulations and all other Village regulations.
As a condition of approval of a building permit for a zoning lot, the Building
Commissioner may require that a memorandum of this restriction be recorded in
Recorder's Office for Cook County, Illinois. Alternatively, an owner may apply
for approval of a subdivision plat under the subdivision regulations to
indicate such consolidation.
   B.   After August 13, 1962 (the "effective date") in the A Residence
District, a single-family dwelling may be established only on a lot averaging
not less than seventy five feet (75') wide and one-half (1/2) acre in area, or
on any smaller lot of record which was duly subdivided and recorded on or
before the effective date; provided such smaller lot was, at said effective
date and has continually been and still remains, separately owned from all
contiguous lots, or provided that a residence was previously constructed on
such smaller lot of record prior to said effective date and a residence has
continued to exist and still remains on such smaller lot since said effective
date. Easements for roadways or passageways shall not be considered in
determining the area of a lot. (Ord. 2018-03, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-2-1: Districts Established
9-2-2: Zoning Map
9-2-3: Zoning Of Annexed Land
9-2-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, all land lying within the limits of the village
is hereby divided into the following districts:
   A residence district
   B residence district
   PCC property district
Public lands district
(Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-2-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of each district are indicated upon the zoning map of the
village as supplemented, which map as so supplemented is attached to ordinance
03-05 and made a part of this title by reference. The said zoning map as
supplemented, and all notations, references, and other matters shown thereon,
shall be as much a part of this title as if the notations, references, and
other matters set forth by said map as supplemented were fully described
herein. (Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-2-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Any land hereafter annexed to the village, other than land eligible for
classification as a PCC property district, shall be classified as an A
residence district until differently classified by an amendment to this title.
(Ord. 68-2, 7-31-1968)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. A RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Uses Permitted
9-3A-2: Yard Areas
9-3A-3: Intensity Of Lot Coverage
9-3A-4: Floor Area Ratios
9-3A-1: USES PERMITTED:
In the A Residence District, the only uses which may hereafter be established
or expanded are:
Accessory uses incidental to the following uses, including private garages;
provided, however, that private stables are specifically prohibited in said
district.
Public or parochial kindergartens or grammar schools, having no dormitories or
facilities for boarding pupils.
Public parks or recreation buildings not conducted as a business or for profit.
Railroad passenger stations.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only for a period not to
exceed one year. Storage of building material or equipment except during
construction in connection with any of the above permissible uses is
specifically prohibited. (Ord., 4-22-1943)
9-3A-2: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, provided such rear yard
shall be not less than twenty five feet (25'), and need not exceed fifty feet
(50') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards: There shall be a side yard along each side of the building
having a width of not less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot (but
in no event shall it be less than 10 feet), except in the case of side yards
adjacent to public streets, where such side yards shall not be less than
fifteen feet (15'). (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. 1989 Code)
9-3A-3: INTENSITY OF LOT COVERAGE:
No principal building, with its accessory buildings, impervious driveways,
walks and patios, shall occupy in excess of forty five percent (45%) of the
area of a residential lot. Impervious lot coverage shall include all impervious
surfaces on a given lot (except that the water surface of an inground swimming
pool and/or a wood deck with semipermeable membrane beneath it shall not
contribute to impervious lot coverage). Detention/retention areas located on a
lot shall be used when calculating lot size and impervious surfaces. (Ord.
2018-03, 1-8-2018)
9-3A-4: FLOOR AREA RATIOS 1 :
All buildings and/or structures developed within the A Residence District are
required to comply with the floor area ratio restrictions provided as follows:
 
Lot Area (LA)   Maximum FAR
Up to 8,500     0.45 (45 percent)
square feet
                0.45 to 0.30 (45 percent to 30 percent) based on the following
8,500 to 25,000 sliding scale formula:
square feet     MAX FAR = 0.45 - [LA-8500 x 0.004545]
                                              500
25,000 square   0.30 (30 percent)
feet or larger
 
(Ord. 00-01, 6-12-2000; amd. Ord. 2017-06, 9-11-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-1-5 of this title.
ARTICLE B. B RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Permitted Uses
9-3B-2: Lot Area Requirements
9-3B-3: Floor Area Ratios
9-3B-1: PERMITTED USES:
In the B Residence District, the only uses, lot requirements and building
restrictions allowed in such district are those permitted in and for the A
Residence District. (Ord., 4-22-1943)
9-3B-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Yard Areas:
      1.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than fifteen percent (15%) of the depth of the lot, provided such rear yard be
not less than ten feet (10'), and need not exceed twenty five feet (25') in
depth.
      2.   Side Yards: There shall be a side yard along each side of the
building having a width of not less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the
lot, but in no event need it be less than five feet (5') in width. (Ord., 4-22-
1943)
   B.   Intensity Of Use Of Lot: No building, with its accessory buildings,
impervious driveways, walks and patios, shall occupy in excess of forty five
percent (45%) of the area of a residential lot. Impervious lot coverage shall
include all impervious surfaces on a given lot (except that the water surface
of an inground swimming pool and/or a wood deck with semipermeable membrane
beneath it shall not contribute to impervious lot coverage). Detention/
retention areas located on a lot shall be used when calculating lot size and
impervious surfaces. No dwellings or group of dwellings shall hereafter be
erected or altered to accommodate or make provision for more than six (6)
families on any acre of land nor make provision for more than a proportional
number of families on a fractional part of any acre of land. (Ord., 4-22-1943;
amd. Ord. 02-07, 1-13-2003)
9-3B-3: FLOOR AREA RATIOS 1 :
All buildings and/or structures developed within the B Residence District are
required to comply with the floor area ratio restrictions provided as follows:
 
Lot Area (LA)                Maximum FAR
Up to 8,500 square feet      0.45 (45 percent)
                             0.45 to 0.30 (45 percent to 30 percent) based on
8,500 to 25,000 square feet  the following sliding scale formula:
                             MAX FAR = 0.45 - [LA-8500 x 0.004545] 500
25,000 square feet or larger 0.30 (30 percent)
 
(Ord. 00-01, 6-12-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-1-5 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
PCC PROPERTY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Uses Permitted
9-4-2: Changes In Use
9-4-1: USES PERMITTED:
In the PCC property district the only uses which may hereafter be established
are:
Clubhouses and appurtenant professional shops, residence and residential
buildings and dormitories, refreshment and catering facilities and maintenance
facilities, in each case only when owned and operated by a private membership
club providing recreational facilities referred to in the following items:
   Curling.
   Golf courses.
   Other recreational facilities.
   Skeet and trapshooting ranges.
   Swimming pools.
   Tennis courts. (Ord. 68-2, 7-31-1968)
9-4-2: CHANGES IN USE:
Any PCC property district land which shall cease to be eligible for such
classification shall be and become classified as an A residence district. (Ord.
68-2, 7-31-1968)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LANDS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Permitted Uses
9-5-1: PERMITTED USES:
In the public lands district, the only uses which may hereafter be established
are the following uses:
Municipal building. 1
Public parks which shall include recreation buildings, tennis courts, baseball,
soccer and play fields, and children's play areas.
Railroad passenger stations.
(Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2022-01, 3-14-2022)
 
Notes
  1. For purposes of this Section 9-5-1, a "municipal building" shall mean a
  building that is or has been used for the administrative offices and civic
  meeting space of the Village. In addition to the municipal use. the following
1 are permitted uses in a municipal building: (a) a U.S. Post Office and (b)
  general offices, 501(c)(3) affairs and activities appurtenant thereto,
  provided such use and occupancy does not violate any covenants, conditions
  and restrictions of record for the municipal building to which the Village is
  a party.
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
9-6-2: Change Of Nonconforming Use Or District
9-6-3: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use Or Change To Conforming Use
9-6-4: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
9-6-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
The lawful use of a building or premises existing on September 17, 1928, (the
date of the adoption of the original zoning ordinance of the village) may be
continued, although such use does not conform with the provisions hereof, and
such use may be extended throughout the building or premises lawfully acquired
previous to said date. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-6-2: CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USE OR DISTRICT:
A nonconforming use may be changed to a use of the same or higher
classification according to the provisions of this title, and whenever a
district shall hereafter be changed, any then existing nonconforming use in
such changed district may be continued or changed to a use of similar or higher
classification, provided all other regulations governing the new use are
complied with. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-6-3: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE OR CHANGE TO CONFORMING USE:
Whenever a nonconforming use of the building has been discontinued for six (6)
consecutive months or changed to a higher classification or to a conforming
use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a use of a lower
classification. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-6-4: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
No building which has been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its value shall be repaired or rebuilt except
in conformity with the regulations of this title, except that it may be
reconstructed on its former foundation. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. 1989 Code; Ord.
03-05, 9-8-2003)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Enforcement Of Provisions
9-7-2: Permit Requirements
9-7-3: Variations
9-7-4: Judicial Appeals
9-7-5: Amendments
9-7-6: Fees
9-7-7: Penalties
9-7-1: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
The Building Commissioner is hereby designated and authorized to enforce this
title. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-7-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Except as provided by this title and except after obtaining written
permission from the Building Commissioner, it shall be unlawful, anywhere
within the corporate area of the Village:
      1.   To establish any use of a building, structure or land, either by
itself or in addition to another use.
      2.   To expand, change or reestablish any nonconforming use.
      3.   To erect a new building or structure or part thereof, or commence
any excavation in preparation for such erection.
      4.   To rebuild, structurally alter, add to or relocate any building or
structure or part thereof.
      5.   To reduce the open space or "lot", as defined herein, required for a
building or structure, or to include any part of such open space or plot area
as that required for an adjoining building or structure.
      6.   To provide or connect onto water supply or sewerage disposal
facilities.
   B.   No change of use shall be made in any building or part thereof now or
hereafter erected or altered without a permit having been issued by the
Building Commissioner, and no permit shall be issued to make such change unless
it is in conformity with the provisions of this title or amendments hereto or
hereafter duly enacted. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-3 of this Code.
9-7-3: VARIATIONS:
   A.   An owner or authorized representative may apply for a variation in
writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals in a specific case, after written denial
of a permit by the Building Commissioner. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
have the jurisdiction and authority to grant variations, but only to the extent
authorized in this section. The application for variation shall be considered
at a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals, held after fifteen (15)
days' notice is given as prescribed by statute. At the hearing, the burden of
proof is on the applicant. Variations shall be permitted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals only when:
      1.   The requested variation is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this title. Without limiting the foregoing, the requested variation
will not: a) impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
b) increase the congestion in public streets unreasonably; c) increase the
hazard of fire; d) endanger the public safety; or e) diminish or impair the
values of property within the surrounding area or the use or enjoyment of such
properties.
      2.   The requested variation is necessary due to practical difficulties
or particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this title. In its consideration of the standards of practical
difficulties or particular hardship, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall require
evidence that all of the following apply: a) the property owner would suffer a
demonstrable particular hardship or practical difficulty as distinguished from
a mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations of this title were
carried out; b) the plight of the owner is due to conditions peculiar to the
property arising from its particular physical surroundings, shape, tree
coverage, or other topographical conditions; c) the variation, if granted, will
not alter the essential character of the Village; and d) the requested
variation is limited to the minimum change necessary to alleviate the
particular hardship or practical difficulty which affects the property.
Within thirty (30) days after closing the hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall adopt findings of fact based upon the evidence presented at the hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals may adopt a motion, upon the concurring vote of not
less than four (4) of its members, that includes findings of fact that the
standards for granting a variation are satisfied and directs the issuance of a
permit effecting the variation as requested or in such modified form as the
Zoning Board of Appeals may determine upon. Whether the Zoning Board of Appeals
denies or grants an application, such decisions and findings of the Zoning
Board of Appeals under this section shall be final administrative
determinations.
   B.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have jurisdiction or authority to
grant a variation from the regulations of this title that reduces the minimum
areas or dimensions or increases the maximum dimensions by more than twenty
five percent (25%), except in the following instances:
      1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may hear an application for a variation
to reduce the minimum setback from a street for any building determined under
subsection 9-1-4B of this title, and may grant a variation reducing the
dimension of the minimum street setback, along all or any portion of the street
line, to be not less than the minimum street setback then observed by any
existing building on the lot at the time the application is made.
      2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may hear an application for a variation,
concerning any principal building whose minimum setback from a street is varied
pursuant to the provisions of subsection B1 of this section, and may grant a
variation reducing such minimum street setback by up to an additional five feet
(5') solely for purposes of constructing a storage unit or similar accessory
purpose, provided such use is not habitable space, does not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height, is fully enclosed of materials complementary to the principal
building, is attached to the principal building, and provided the lot on which
the building is located is functionally triangular in shape.
      3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may hear an application for a variation
to reduce the minimum side yard setback to enlarge an existing one-story, one-
car attached garage into a one-story, two-car attached garage (provided the
height of the expanded garage area matches the existing one-story roof line and
does not contain second-floor living space), and may grant a variation reducing
the dimension of the minimum side yard setback to not less than five feet (5')
for purposes of such enlargement. (Ord. 2018-07, 8-13-2018)
9-7-4: JUDICIAL APPEALS:
Within thirty (30) days after the filing of any decision or variation by the
Zoning Board of Appeals, any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved
by such decision or variation, or any officer, department or board of the
Village, may appeal to a court of record in the manner prescribed by statute.
(Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
9-7-5: AMENDMENTS:
Notice of the lime and place of such public hearing shall be given by one (1)
publication in one (I) or more newspapers of general circulation within the
village. Notice shall be published a minimum of fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date and a maximum of thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date. Such
notice shall be sufficient notice for the initial hearing, as well as any
continuances of the same hearing, if any. After such public hearing, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall report to the Village Board on the proposed amendment
and may cause an ordinance authorizing such proposed amendment to be introduced
before said Village Board. Such hearing of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be
adjourned from lime to time.
(Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003; Ord. 2022-01, 3-14-2022)
9-7-6: FEES 1 :
   A.   Generally: Permit and other fees shall be as established by resolution
of the Village Board.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy And Compliance: A fee of twenty dollars
($20.00) shall be charged for each original certificate and one dollar ($1.00)
for each copy thereof. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 8-1-5 of this Code for permit fees.
9-7-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a Class B penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 4-22-1943; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
Each and every violation, and each and every day or part thereof such violation
or failure to comply continues following three (3) days after notification
thereof is sent by registered mail, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
9410, 12-12-1994; amd. Ord. 03-05, 9-8-2003)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Adoption Of Plan
10-1-3: Purpose And Contents Of Plan
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN for the village.
(Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
10-1-2: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The comprehensive plan of public improvements looking to the present and future
development of the village and regulating land subdivisions within the
corporate limits, which plan has been prepared and recommended to the village
board of trustees by the building commissioner is hereby adopted and made the
official village plan. (Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
10-1-3: PURPOSE AND CONTENTS OF PLAN:
The plan as hereby adopted consists of the following:
   A.   Objectives:
      1.   That the character of the village and its environs as a strictly
residential community of individual homes be maintained; and
      2.   That for the promotion of the public health, safety and convenience,
and for the attainment of maximum and practical utility, beauty and
attractiveness and for the maintenance and protection of property values, all
future developments in the village shall provide:
         a.   That an adequate circulatory water supply system be completed and
maintained;
         b.   That an adequate system of sanitary and drainage sewers be
installed and maintained;
         c.   That streets be of adequate width and without jogs, sharp turns
and dangerous intersections;
         d.   That the planting of desirable and long lived trees be uniform
throughout the village; and (Ord., 6-13-1949)
         e.   That the architectural design and location of public buildings be
approved by the building commissioner before construction is commenced. (Ord.,
6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Map: Map no. 2 entitled official plan map of the village of Golf, Cook
County, Illinois; and (Ord. 68-4, 7-31-1968)
   C.   Regulations: The subdivision regulations set forth in this title.
(Ord., 6-13-1949)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Short Title
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Conformance With Village Plan
10-2-4: Plats And Procedures
10-2-4-1: Tentative Plat
10-2-4-2: Final Plat
10-2-5: Required Improvements
10-2-6: Variations
10-2-7: Interpretation
10-2-8: Enforcement
10-2-9: Penalty
10-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS for the village.
(Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
LAND SUBDIVISION: Any change, resubdivision or rearrangement in the boundary or
division lines of a parcel of property or public thoroughfare. (Ord., 6-13-
1949)
10-2-3: CONFORMANCE WITH VILLAGE PLAN:
After the effective date hereof, no map or plat of any subdivision presented
for record affecting land within the corporate limits of the village or in
contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half (11/
2) miles from such limits and not included in any city, village or incorporated
town shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision
thereon shown shall provide for streets, alleys and public grounds in
conformity with the requirement of the plan applicable thereto 1 . (Ord., 6-13-
1949)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-6.
10-2-4: PLATS AND PROCEDURES:
10-2-4-1: TENTATIVE PLAT:
   A.   Submission: Any owner of land within the corporate limits of the
village or contiguous unincorporated territory one and one-half (11/2) miles
beyond such corporate limits wishing to divide the same into building lots for
the purpose of sale and assessment or both, and wishing to dedicate streets and
alleys and other lands for public use, shall first submit to the village board
a tentative plat in duplicate blueprints.
   B.   Requirements: The tentative plat shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Scale: Each tentative plat shall be drawn to the scale of one
hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1").
      2.   Boundaries: The tentative plat shall show the boundaries of the
property to be subdivided, section and half section lines, existing permanent
buildings, watercourses and other existing features pertinent to proper
subdivision, together with building restrictions to be imposed on the property.
      3.   Municipal Boundaries: All corporate boundary lines within or
adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be shown and designated.
      4.   Contours: Contour lines at intervals of not more than two feet (2')
shall be shown when required by the building commissioner. (Ord., 6-13-1949;
amd. 1989 Code)
      5.   Streets: The widths of streets (with their names) and alleys,
dimensions of lots and blocks and building lines shall be shown. The surveyed
locations and full widths of streets (with their names) bounding the proposed
subdivision and the widths and names of intersecting streets in the property
immediately adjacent shall be shown. All streets shall be carried to the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
      6.   Names: The name of the proposed subdivision with the name of the
owner, sponsor or trustees shall be shown. (Ord., 6-13-1949)
   C.   Action By Village Authorities:
      1.   The village board shall by motion refer the tentative plat to the
building commissioner and shall at the same time instruct the village engineer
to collaborate with the subdivider and the building commissioner for the
purpose of preparing estimates of cost of street grading and such other public
improvements as are contemplated by the subdivider and shown on his tentative
plat. Such public improvements contemplated and shown shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The building commissioner shall then approve or disapprove the
tentative plat; provided, however, that if the tentative plat is not
satisfactory as originally presented, the building commissioner may cause the
subdivider to make such changes as may be required by the building commissioner
and thereupon approve the same. Upon approval of the tentative plat, the
following statement signed by the building commissioner shall be stamped upon
both copies thereof:
   NOTICE OF APPROVAL
Notice is hereby given that the general plan of the subdivision shown in this
tentative plat has received approval of the building commissioner of the
village of Golf and that the said building commissioner is now ready to receive
the final plat for consideration.
      Date                      The building commissioner of
         the village of Golf, Illinois.
                                             
One copy of the approved plat shall thereupon be returned to the subdivider,
the other copy shall be retained by the building commissioner. (Ord., 6-13-
1949)
10-2-4-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission; Supporting Documents: After the building commissioner has
approved the tentative plat, the subdivider shall submit to the building
commissioner a final plat, surveyed by a registered Illinois land surveyor, and
prepared for record in accordance with the provisions of subsection B of this
section, together with the following supporting documents:
      1.   A grading and paving plan and profiles approved by the village
engineer showing the center line elevations of all existing streets and alleys
in the proposed subdivision and the center line elevations of all proposed
street and alley pavement. Elevations shall be referred to some permanent bench
mark. Profiles shall be drawn to a horizontal scale of fifty feet to one inch
(50' = 1") and vertical scale of five feet to one inch (5' = 1").
      2.   A statement signed by the subdivider setting forth the public
improvements he proposes to make in the subdivision, together with plans and
specifications, clearly describing the same and agreeing to make the said
improvements at his own expense, subject to approval of the final plat by the
village board within the time limit fixed by the building commissioner.
      3.   A statement of approval signed by the village engineer certifying
that the improvements described in the subdivider's statement meet the minimum
requirements of this title, and giving an estimate of the cost of such
improvements, including the cost of engineering and inspection.
      4.   A duly executed corporate completion bond, posted with the village
by the subdivider, in an amount equal to the village engineer's estimate,
securing the satisfactory completion of all public improvements in strict
accordance with the description, plans and specifications submitted by the
subdivider and approved by the building commissioner.
      5.   Evidence satisfactory to the building commissioner showing title in
the subdivider and that all taxes and special assessments due on the property
to be subdivided have been paid.
   B.   Contents Of Final Plat; Design Requirements: The final plat to be
submitted to the building commissioner shall be in strict accordance with the
approved tentative plat and shall be drawn on tracing cloth to a scale of not
less than one hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1"). One blueprint of the said
final plat shall accompany the same. The final plat shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Name: The name of the proposed subdivision shall be shown.
      2.   Date: The date of preparation and a proper north sign shall be
shown.
      3.   Survey: A correct survey of the property proposed to be platted
shall be shown.
      4.   Legal Description: A legal description of the property shall be
given which includes reference to the section, township and range, government
section lines and corners, half section lines, the location and dimension of
all streets (with their names), alleys and all other lands to be dedicated to
public use; and the lines and dimension of abutting roads and streets (with
their names) and alleys shall be shown.
      5.   Lot Lines: All lot lines shall be shown, lots and blocks numbered or
lettered; building lines and easements shall be shown and determined by
measurements.
      6.   Dimensions: All necessary dimensions both linear and angular shall
be shown. Linear dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot, and
all deflection angles, all radii, arcs and central angles of all corners along
the property line of each street shall be shown.
      7.   Monuments: The description and location of all survey monuments
erected in the subdivision shall be shown. Such monuments shall be either iron
pipe not less than three-quarters inch (3/4") in diameter and thirty inches
(30") long, or stone or concrete not less than four inches (4") in diameter and
twenty four inches (24") long. Monuments shall be erected at all street and lot
corners, at all points where street lines intersect the exterior boundaries of
the subdivision and at angle points and points of curve in each street.
      8.   Street Connections: Provisions shall be made for direct connections
with the existing streets in adjoining subdivisions.
      9.   Dedication Of Lands For Public Use: The plat shall have lettered
upon it a statement of dedication properly conveying all lands dedicated for
such public uses as streets, public schools, parks or any other public use, and
there shall be attached to the plat a certificate of title certifying the
ownership of all such lands to be so dedicated by the said plat. Public grounds
other than streets, alleys and parking areas shall be dedicated in appropriate
locations by the plat at the rate of at least one acre for each sixty (60)
residential building sites or family living units, which may be accommodated
under the zoning or other restrictions applying to the land.
      10.   Building Restrictions: Detail of building restrictions to be
imposed on the property by the subdivider shall be shown.
      11.   Certificates, Etc.: All proper certificates, seals and signatures
as required by law shall be shown.
      12.   Easements: Where no alleys are platted, easements not less than
eight feet (8') wide shall be provided across the rear of all lots for any or
all public utilities, including communication lines, electric lines, and other
similar utilities or entities which have received a franchise or permit from
the Village in the subdivision or in the rights-of-way adjacent to the
subdivision. All such utilities shall be placed underground in protected
easements and the easements shall be so laid out that a proper continuity may
be had for such utilities from block to block and in a manner that will not
conflict with other underground services. Underground utilities shall be
located in conduit as required by the utility. All transformer boxes shall be
located so as not be unsightly or hazardous to the public. No public utility
easements shall be located in the front yards or side yards of any lots.
   C.   Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   Building Commissioner Approval: When the building commissioner has
approved the final plat, the following official stamp shall be stamped or
lettered upon the said final plat, signed by the building commissioner and
attested by his secretary:
Approved by the building commissioner of Golf, Cook County, Illinois, this
        day of                    , 19     .
         Signed                                           
The building commissioner shall then transmit the approved final plat to the
village board, together with a letter of transmittal calling attention to all
variations, if any, approved by the building commissioner and setting forth its
reasons for approving the same, and conveying such other information concerning
the final plat as the building commissioner may deem necessary.
With the approved final plat, the building commissioner shall also transmit to
the village board the subdivider's agreement with respect to improvements and
all plans, specifications, estimates, completion bonds and all other documents,
certificates and papers pertaining to the final plat and the subdivision
platted thereon. (Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
      2.   Final Approval By Village Board Of Trustees: When the village board
is satisfied with the final plat and with all improvements, conditions and
documents pertaining to the subdivision platted thereon, the village board
shall by resolution approve the said plat and authorize and direct the village
president to approve and sign the plat for and in the name of the village. Said
approval shall be sealed with the corporate seal of the village and attested by
the village clerk.
(Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code; Ord. 2020-03, 5-11-2020)
10-2-5: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Roadway Improvements: The subdivider shall at his own expense improve
all streets with a roadway not less than twenty five feet (25') wide (back to
back of curbs) consisting of approved macadam or concrete pavement not less
than eight inches (8") thick.
   B.   Additional Improvements: The subdivider of any proposed subdivision
lying within the village limits shall also provide at his own expense public
improvements as follows: (Ord., 6-13-1949)
      1.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be planted throughout the entire
subdivision. Such trees shall be planted in the parkways, shall be not less
than fifty feet (50') apart and shall be desirable long lived trees. (Ord., 6-
13-1949; amd. 1989 Code; 2003 Code)
      2.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs of a type approved by the
village board shall be provided at all street intersections.
      3.   Water Mains: The water system of the village shall be extended
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner that every lot in such
subdivision may be serviced by means of a house connection within its own
frontage 1 .
      4.   Fire Hydrants 2 : Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the
entire subdivision at intervals not exceeding four hundred feet (400'). No fire
hydrant shall be connected to any water main which is less than six inches (6")
in diameter. All fire hydrants shall conform with village specifications 3 .
      5.   Sanitary Sewers: A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to render the
same accessible to every lot within its own frontage.
      6.   Storm Sewers: A storm sewer system shall be constructed throughout
the entire subdivision which shall be separate and independent of the sanitary
sewer system, in accordance with requirements of the village board. (Ord., 6-
13-1949)
   C.   Approval Of Plans And Specifications: All plans and specifications and
contracts for public improvements required by this chapter such as street
paving, sidewalks, water system and sewer systems shall be approved by the
village board before starting construction.
   D.   Building Permit Requirements: No construction of such public
improvements shall commence unless a building permit authorizing such
construction shall first have been applied for and procured from the building
commissioner. The building commissioner shall issue such permit only after the
approval of the final plat by the village board of trustees provided for in
this section, and after the payment of a fee for such building permit to the
building commissioner in the amount of one percent (1%) of the amount of the
performance bond, or one hundred dollars ($100.00), whichever is less. Within
ten (10) days prior to commencement of construction of any public improvements,
the subdivider or the contractor in charge of such construction shall notify
the building commissioner, in writing, of the date upon which such construction
will commence. (Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
   E.   Inspection: All public improvements to be made under the provisions of
this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by a
competent inspector appointed by the village board. The salary and other costs
in connection with the said inspection shall be paid by the subdivider. (Ord.,
6-13-1949)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See also section
  7-1-11 of this code.
3 3. See section
  7-1-11 of this code.
10-2-6: VARIATIONS:
The building commissioner may approve variations from these requirements in
specific cases which do not affect the general plan or the spirit thereof. All
such variations shall be communicated to the village board in writing with the
reasons therefor before the final approval of the plat by that body. (Ord., 6-
13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
10-2-7: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, such provisions
shall in every instance be held to be the minimum reasonable requirements
adopted for the promotion of public health, safety, comfort, morals and
welfare. (Ord., 6-13-1949)
10-2-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the building commissioner to enforce the requirements
of the plan. He may call upon any other department or official of the village
to furnish him with such information or assistance as he may deem necessary for
the observance or enforcement of the plan, and it shall be the duty of such
other departments or officials to furnish such information or assistance
whenever requested. (Ord., 6-13-1949)
10-2-9: PENALTY:
Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a class B penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 6-13-1949; amd. 1989 Code)
Each and every violation, and each and every day or part thereof such violation
or failure to comply continues following three (3) days after notification
thereof is sent by registered mail, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
9410, 12-12-1994)
