GOREVILLE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Goreville shall be designated as
the Code of Goreville and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Johnson County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Johnson County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFOR or HEREAFTER. HERETOFOR means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Goreville.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser, and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Goreville. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers, and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail, and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Goreville.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   These references shall also include the designee or agent of the
officer or office, unless the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for any one offense.
      (2)   Any minor or person designated as a juvenile by this state
convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less
than $75 nor more than $750 for any one offense, but may not be confined except
by provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state.
      (3)   Whoever commits an offense against the village or aids, abets,
counsels, commands, induces, or procures its commission is punishable as a
principal.
      (4)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him or her, or another, would be an offense against the village,
is punishable as a principal.
      (5)   All municipal ordinance offenses may be satisfied without a court
appearance by written plea of guilty and payment of the minimum fine, plus
court costs, unless a court appearance is required by the ordinance violated.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-20)
   (B)   (1)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to
every section of this village code, the same as though it were a part of each
and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section
of this village code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any act which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this village code. In all
cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by different
clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
      (2)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code, and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-21)
   (C)   The failure of any officer or employee to perform any official duty
imposed by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty
imposed for violation of this code, unless a penalty is specifically provided
for.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-7 and 5/12-8
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the village. It shall be circular in form, with the words
“Village of Goreville, Johnson County, Illinois” in the exterior circle, and
the word “seal” in the center.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the Village Clerk, who shall be the legal
custodian.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-18)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12 and 5/3.1-35-90
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   CIVIL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Composition and general powers
   
30.02   Regular meetings
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Meetings procedures and protocol
   
30.05   Vacancy
   
30.06   Special committees
   
30.07   Quorum
   
30.08   Compelling attendance
   
30.09   Rules of the Board
   
30.10   Agenda
   
30.11   Ordinances
Committees and Functions
   
30.25   Appointments
   
30.26   Committee role and procedures
   
30.27   Powers of the committees
   
30.28   Committee meetings
   
30.29   Finance Committee
   
30.30   Public Safety Committee
   
30.31   Public Works Committee
   
30.32   Community and Economic Development Committee
   
30.33   Human Resources Committee
   
30.34   Parks and Beautification Committee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Village Board shall consist of six Trustees, elected in conformity with
this code and state law governing elections in villages and shall have such
powers as are granted by 65 ILCS, as amended. The term of office shall be for
four years or until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5 and 5/3.1-10-50(D)
§ 30.02 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the
Village Hall building on the first Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. When the
meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the following
Tuesday at the same hour and place, unless otherwise designated. Adjourned
meetings may be held at such times as may be determined by the Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2) (Res. 1a-98, passed 10-20-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25 and 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Village Board may be called by the Mayor or any
three Trustees by giving at least 48 hours’ notice thereof by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the time of such meeting at the
residences of the Trustees. Such notices shall be served by mail, by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative. Said notices shall specify
the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken up at that
time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the Village Hall and shall be
provided to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local radio or
television station that has filed an annual request for such notice. Said
notice shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as said notice
is given to the Mayor and members of the Village Board, provided such news
media has given the village an address within the village at which such notice
may be given.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25 and 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/
2.03
§ 30.04 MEETINGS PROCEDURES AND PROTOCOL.
   (A)   Applicability of meeting rules to committees.
      (1)   For the purpose of the Open Meetings Act (OMA) a MEETING is any
gathering, whether conducted in person or by video or audio conference,
telephone call, electronic means (including email, electronic chat, and instant
messaging) or other means of contemporaneous interactive communication of a
majority of the quorum of the public body held for the purpose of conducting
business. This pertains to personal cell phones and computers as well.
      (2)   Committees are considered a subsidiary body of the municipality.
Therefore, all rules pertaining to meetings apply equally to committee meetings
or any special meetings. If committees meet on the same day as a regular Board
meeting, items can only be discussed, but not acted on by the Board. This is
because the item was not listed on the formal, published agenda.
   (B)   Quorum.
      (1)   A QUORUM is a majority of the corporate authorities. For the
village, that would constitute at least four members of the seven-person Board.
A quorum would either be the Mayor and three Board Trustees, or four Board
Trustees. No municipal meeting can take place without a quorum. A quorum must
be physically present to begin a meeting and at any time a vote is taken. Any
action taken without a quorum present is void.
      (2)   In the absence of a quorum, members present may adjourn and try to
compel attendance through whatever penalties the Board has prescribed by
ordinance, or alternatively assemble and declare no legal meeting. If business
is imperative before the next meeting, an emergency meeting can be called only
if a true emergency can be proven and properly recorded. Otherwise, a special
meeting can be called, but only with 48 hours’ notice and the public notified
of the new meeting date. To prevent this circumstance, except in true last
minute emergencies, members of the Board must notify the Village Clerk that
they will be absent, at least two working days in advance. This allows for the
rescheduling of the meeting with the required notice to the public. Electronic
participation by a member cannot count toward a quorum unless provisions for a
meeting during a disaster declaration are met.
      (3)   (a)   If a quorum of the members of a public body are physically
present, a majority of those present may agree to allow a member to participate
by video or audio conference if the absent member is unable to attend for one
of the following reasons:
            1.    Personal illness or disability;
            2.   Employment purposes or the business of the public body; or
            3.   Family or other emergency.
         (b)   Vacation does not qualify for a request to attend
electronically. The Village Clerk must be notified in advance of request for
electronic attendance unless advance notice is impossible. The Public Act 101-
0640 of June 2020, makes some exceptions to the OMA during a Disaster
Declaration in regard to remote meetings, but specific criteria apply.
   (C)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   All public meetings of the village are held at the Village Hall
Board meeting room. A list of dates and times for monthly meetings is prepared
by the Village Clerk annually at the beginning of the calendar year and posted
to the public website. The meetings are routinely the first Monday of each
month except when a meeting coincides with a holiday, the meeting is moved to
Tuesday. News media may submit an annual request for a copy of the meeting list
by contacting the Village Clerk.
      (2)   The Village Clerk prepares the meeting agenda prior to each meeting
and posts the agenda at the meeting location at least 48 hours prior to the
meeting. The agenda must list any items that are to be decided at the meeting.
The Board cannot take action on items not listed on the agenda. Since the
meetings are normally held on Monday, all items for the agenda must be received
by the Village Clerk by close of business on Thursday prior to the meeting so
that the completed agenda is posted on Friday before the meeting. For meetings
scheduled on other days, agendas will be posted at least two working days prior
to the meeting. The example of the agenda and meeting format is attached to the
ordinance from which this section is derived as “Attachment A.”
      (3)   All regular meetings are open to the public. Members of the public
who request to address the Board regarding an issue must be on the agenda with
a general subject matter listed. This is to complete the agenda in a way that
other members of the public can attend if it is an item of interest to them.
Members of the public can contact the Village Clerk to be added to the agenda.
      (4)   In the interest of professional, time efficient, and productive
meetings, those on the agenda to address the Board will limit their comments to
five minutes or less. This provides equal time to all wishing to address the
Board. Public comments during the Board meeting will be limited to a total of
30 minutes unless the Board members make exceptions in certain cases. Written
presentations will be accepted.
      (5)   Although the public has the right to address public officials at
public meetings, officials are not required to engage in debate or make
themselves available for abusive or harassing behavior from members of the
public or provide on-the-spot answers to issues raised. If harassing,
disruptive behavior becomes an issue, the meeting Chair can direct an
individual to leave the meeting.
   (D)   Closed meetings.
      (1)   There are several statutory exceptions permitting the public body
to conduct meetings or parts of meetings that are closed to the public.
Exceptions include most commonly: collective bargaining negotiations;
deliberations concerning salary schedules; considerations of purchase of real
property; and any type of personnel issue. These exceptions are listed in
detail in the Municipal Handbook and state statutes.
      (2)   A vote will be recorded into the regular minutes of the open
meeting for the Board to enter executive session and cited as the “meeting was
closed to the public” along with the time. When the closed discussion is
complete, a motion will be made to exit the closed session. That vote will be
recorded into the open meeting minutes, along with the time. Any action
resulting from the discussion will be voted and recorded in the open meeting
minutes. The closed session will be recorded by written and audio recording.
Written and audio minutes are secured in the office of the Village Clerk. Audio
recordings are kept for at least 18 months. Items discussed in executive
session are confidential unless the board votes to release certain closed
session minutes at the semi-annual meeting review.
   (E)   Minutes.
      (1)   The written minutes are provided to the Mayor and Board of Trustees
at the next regular Board meeting for approval as part of the consent agenda.
Once the minutes are approved and signed by the Mayor, the Village Clerk will
provide the minutes for publication and public inspection within ten days of
approval.
      (2)   Board meeting minutes are a permanent record and secured in the
office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 30.05 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs, if more than 28 months remain in the term and the
vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the general municipal election,
next scheduled under the General Election Law, the office shall be filled for
the remainder of the term at that general municipal election. During the period
from the time that the vacancy occurs until the next election of Trustees, the
Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the office subject to the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40(B)
§ 30.06 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, as may be needed from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 30.07 QUORUM.
   (A)    At all meetings of the Village Board, a majority of the corporate
authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if
no such quorum attends such meeting of the Board, the Trustees may adjourn from
day to day until a quorum is present, and shall have power to compel the
attendance of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to
attend such meetings.
   (B)   When the Board has a Mayor and six Trustees, a quorum is four, which
may consist of the Mayor and three Trustees, or four Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.08 COMPELLING ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each and all Trustees to attend all regular
meetings of the Village Board and all special meetings when each has been duly
notified of the date and place of such meeting. If, at any meeting duly called,
a quorum is not present, the Trustees in attendance may adjourn the same to
some stated time, and any Trustee duly notified in writing by the Clerk of the
time and place of such adjourned meeting may be compelled to attend, provided
that the foregoing shall not apply when any Trustee is absent from such meeting
or meetings on account of sickness, unavoidable accident, or is working.
   (B)   Any member of the Village Board who shall neglect to or refuse to
attend at least one meeting per month of the Village Board without good and
sufficient excuse to be passed upon by the Village Board shall not receive
compensation for that month.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-40-20
§ 30.09 RULES OF THE BOARD.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the Board.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   The reading of the journal of the proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings, and correction of the same, unless dispensed
with by the Board of Trustees and correction of the journal of the proceedings
of previous meetings;
         (d)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other village
officials;
         (e)   Visitors;
         (f)   Reports of the standing committees;
         (g)   Reports of the special committees;
         (h)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders,
and ordinances by the Board of Trustees;
         (i)   Unfinished business; and
         (j)   Miscellaneous business.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
Trustees, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
   (C)   Duties of members.
      (1)   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member
shall walk across or out of the Board Chamber.
      (2)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion, or
seconding the same, shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized
and named by the Chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the
motives of any other Trustee’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Board of Trustees shall
address that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized
by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a Trustee wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance, or other original
matter, he or she shall send it to the desk of the Clerk, who shall read such
matter when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No Trustee shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the presiding officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Trustee desiring to speak shall have had an
opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the proponent of the matter under
consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   No Trustee shall speak longer than ten minutes at any one time,
except by consent of the Village Board, and in closing debate on any question
as provided in division (F)(1) above, the speaker shall be limited to five
minutes, except by special consent of the Board.
      (3)   The Village Board, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate.
      (4)   While a member is speaking, no Trustee shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of Trustees to order. A Trustee, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat, and the
order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right of appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decisions of the Chair.
      (1)   Any Trustee may appeal to the Board from a ruling of the Chair, and
if the appeal is seconded, the Trustee making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling, but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding officer shall have the right to
participate in debate.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question, “shall the decision of the
Chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote “no,” the
decision of the Chair shall be overruled. Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned, or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally interested in
the question, in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps are necessary
to ensure that his or her vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the Board may be set down
as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the Trustees
present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Board, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing, if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Trustees, by a majority vote of the Trustees
present, may divide such question.
   (N)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Trustee moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (O)   Announcement and changes of votes. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (P)   Precedence of motions. When a question is under debate, the following
motions shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order,
as listed, and divisions (P)(2), (P)(4), and (P)(5) are to be decided without
debate:
      (1)   To adjourn to a day certain;
      (2)   To adjourn;
      (3)   To take a recess;
      (4)   To lay on the table;
      (5)   The previous question;
      (6)   To refer;
      (7)   To amend;
      (8)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
      (9)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and/or
      (10)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
   (Q)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the Board shall always be in order, except:
         (a)   When a Trustee is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and/or
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The Board may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular
meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Trustees authorized by law to be
elected.
   (R)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question, and seconded, it shall be put in this form: “shall the main question
now be put?” If such motion be carried, all further amendment and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (S)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion to simply lay the question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition, shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Trustees vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (T)   Indefinite postponement.
      (1)   When a consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (U)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (V)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject, shall not be in order. On an
amendment to “strike out and insert,” the paragraph to be amended shall first
be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be stricken out, then those to
be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will stand if so amended shall be
read.
      (3)   An amendment to the main question or other pending question may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (W)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (X)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible, and if
accepted by the Trustees by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition of amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (Y)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter, a motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Trustees who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (Z)   Adoption of “Robert’s Rules of Order” revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of “Robert’s
Rules of Order” revised shall govern the Board in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they re not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Board.
   (AA)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled by laws to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered, or amended,
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   (BB)   Censure of Trustees; expulsion of Trustees. Any Trustee acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene,
and insulting language to or about any member of the Board, or who does not
obey the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote
of the members present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Trustees
elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15
§ 30.10 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation shall
be furnished to each member of the Village Board no later than the close of
business on the day preceding the regular Village Board meeting. In the case of
matters of emergency which could not have been reasonably foreseen in
sufficient time to comply with this section, a revised agenda shall be
furnished to each member of the Village Board prior to the opening of the Board
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02
§ 30.11 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Ordinances generally.
      (1)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare
such ordinances as may be required by the Village Board.
      (2)   Introduced. When a proposed ordinance is introduced, it shall be
read one time by title only and referred to the proper committee unless the
Board of Trustees shall otherwise specifically direct.
      (3)   Votes required; yeas and nays; record.
         (a)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion to create any liability against the village or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all members then holding office on the Village Board, including the
Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided by this code or any other act
governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution, or motion; provided that,
where the Board consists of an odd number of Trustees, the vote of the majority
of the Trustees shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance. The yeas and nays
shall be taken upon the question of the passage of the designated ordinances,
resolutions, or motions and recorded in the journal of the Village Board.
         (b)   In addition, the corporate authorities at any meeting may by
unanimous consent to take a single vote by yeas and nays on the several
questions of the passage of any two or more of the designated ordinances,
orders, resolutions, or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single
group, which single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under the
designation “omnibus vote,” and in such event the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering the names of the members of the Village Board voting “yea” and of
those voting “nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders,
resolutions, and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda.
         (c)   The taking of such single or omnibus vote and such entries of
the words “omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal shall be a
sufficient compliance with the requirements of this section to all intents and
purposes and with like effect as if the vote in each case had been taken
separately by yeas and nays on the question of passage of each ordinance,
order, resolution, and motion included in such omnibus group and separately
recorded in the journal. Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the
question of the passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any
Trustee and shall be recorded in the journal.
      (4)   Ordinances; approval; veto.
         (a)   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against
the village, that provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or
to sell any village property, and all ordinances, passed by the Board, shall be
deposited with the Village Clerk.
         (b)   If the Mayor approves of them, he or she shall sign them. Those
ordinances, resolutions, and motions which the Mayor disapproves shall be
returned to the Village Board, with his or her written objections, at the next
regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less than five days after
their passage. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in
any ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to
return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her
written objections, within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of this signature.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
   (B)   Reconsideration; passing over veto.
      (1)   Every resolution and motion, specified in division (A) above, and
every ordinance, that is returned to the Village Board by the Mayor shall be
reconsidered by the Village Board at the next regular meeting. If, after
reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees then holding office on the
Village Board shall agree at such regular meeting to pass an ordinance,
resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective.
      (2)   The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be
by yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
   (C)   No vote to be reconsidered at special meeting. No vote of the Village
Board shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless there are
present at the special meeting at least as many Village Trustees as were
present when the vote was taken.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40, 5/3.1-40-45, 5/3.1-40-50,
and 5/3.1-40-55
COMMITTEES AND FUNCTIONS
§ 30.25 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, with input and approval of the Board, will complete an
annual of review committee appointments, along, with the appointment of the
Mayor pro tem, Fire Chief, Police Chief, and Treasurer. These reviews will be
conducted before the beginning of each fiscal year. The Mayor and Board will
vote on changes at that time. They can make changes at other times when
appropriate.
   (B)   Each Trustee shall be assigned to three committees. Each Trustee shall
be a Chairperson of one committee. The Village Mayor may appoint special
committees if needed. The Village Mayor is an ex officio member of all
committees.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.26 COMMITTEE ROLE AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The role of the committees is to assist with the overall management of
village business by active focus on their area of assignment and problem
solving on an ongoing basis. By dividing the duties between each committee,
members can narrow their efforts to a particular focus. The Committee Chair can
then further divide responsibilities between members, as needed, to give each
Board member specific involvement and responsibility.
   (B)   Committees shall have regular set meetings. Each Committee shall meet
quarterly. Board committee meetings are bound by the Open Meeting Act,
requiring notices to the public, agenda, and recorded minutes. Approved
committee minutes will be filed in the Village Clerk office.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Committee, along with the help of the Village
Clerk, shall prepare the agenda for each committee meeting. Committee members
shall attend all scheduled meetings. If unable to attend, they shall notify the
Committee Chair within reasonable amount of time.
   (D)   The Committee Chairperson shall appoint one of the Committee member to
take the minutes of the committee meeting.
   (E)   The Mayor or Chairperson of the Committee may call for special or
emergency meeting, or two-thirds for the Committee members.
   (F)   The Committee Chairperson or spokesperson will report the discussions
and recommendations from their meetings to the whole Board at the next regular
Board meeting.
   (G)   Committees serve only as advisors and information providers to the
whole Board. Any proposed actions or decisions will always be decided by vote
of the whole Board of Trustees. State statues takes precedence regarding job
related decisions for elected officials.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.27 POWERS OF THE COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Review policies and recommend changes to the Board of Trustees; and
   (B)   The committees shall have the power to require Village Department
heads and employees, along with their elected officials, to appear before them,
to answer questions, and/or to assist the committees in its deliberations.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.28 COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   Committee meetings shall be held the second and fourth Mondays, unless the
meeting falls on an observed holiday, then the meeting shall be the following
day or at the discretion of the Committee Chair.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.29 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Finance Committee shall exercise a general supervision over the
affairs of the village’s finances. It shall do all the acts necessary to
promote the efficiency of the Department. As well as overseeing the preparation
of the village’s annual audit by outside auditors.
   (B)   It shall be responsible for:
      (1)   Participating in financial reporting and audit functions;
      (2)   Participating in revenue generation activities, including property
tax levies, sales tax, and other taxes imposed by the village;
      (3)   Participating in matters pertaining to long-term financing/bonds;
      (4)   Participating in matters and recommendations from the Treasurer’s
office;
      (5)   Participating in development efforts pertaining to special taxing
areas and tax increment financing districts;
      (6)   Participating in communications with external constituencies;
      (7)   Appropriations;
      (8)   Bond issuance;
      (9)   Annual budget:
         (a)   Oversee the preparations of the annual budget;
         (b)   Coordinate with other committees to draft a yearly budget;
         (c)   Ensure that each Department is operating within their respective
budget; and
         (d)   Track and project the village’s current year’s income and
expenses.
      (10)   Tax increment financing (TIF):
         (a)   Review TIF agreements;
         (b)   Ensure the best uses of TIF funds;
         (c)   Keep track of TIF funds that are committed to other projects and
redevelopment agreements; and
         (d)   Coordinate with the TIF Coordinator on all matters relating to
the village’s TIF districts.
      (11)   Village codes and ordinances:
         (a)   Review the village’s codes/ordinances that may fall under this
Committee’s responsibility;
         (b)   Recommend any updates or changes that are needed; and
         (c)   Coordinate with the Village Clerk to ensure that all updates or
changes are promptly recorded in all master copies of the code/ordinance books.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.30 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Oversight of Police and Fire Departments and all aspects of public
safety;
   (B)   Coordinate with the Fire and Police Chiefs to:
      (1)   Review emergency plans annually and find best ways to keep the
public informed;
      (2)   Keep an up-to-date inventory of equipment and supplies:
         (a)   List of needed supplies;
         (b)   Life expectancy of equipment; and
         (c)   Cost to replace equipment with inflation.
      (3)   Maintenance of Departments’ vehicles and equipment; and
      (4)   Coordinate with Community and Economic Development Committee on
available grants.
   (C)   Review of bids for items requested by the Police Department or Fire
Department;
   (D)   Emergency medical services;
   (E)   Other Police and Fire Department related matters as assigned by the
Mayor or Village Board;
   (F)   Participating in addressing matters of public safety, including
police, fire, and emergency management services;
   (G)   Participating in matters pertaining to outsourced services that
provide public safety services (ambulance);
   (H)   Requests for parade permits and special events requiring traffic
control or police protection;
   (I)   Budget:
      (1)   With the Finance Committee, draft a yearly budget;
      (2)   Ensure that the Police and Fire Departments are operating within
their respective budgets; and
      (3)   Track and project Departments’ current year’s income and expenses.
   (J)   Village codes and ordinances:
      (1)   Review village’s codes/ordinances that may fall under this
Committee’s responsibility;
      (2)   Recommend any updates or changes that are needed; and
      (3)   Coordinate with the Village Clerk to ensure that all updates or
changes are promptly recorded in all master copies of the code/ordinance books.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.31 PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Oversight of the Water, Sewer, and Street Departments and all aspects
of the village’s infrastructure;
   (B)   Functions of the Public Works Committee include:
      (1)   Participating in matters pertaining to village infrastructure and
maintenance of:
         (a)   Water, i.e., water lines, water tower, and meters;
         (b)   Sewer, i.e., sewer lines, pumps, and lagoon; and
         (c)   Streets, i.e., residential streets, curbs, sidewalks, and
ditches.
      (2)   Participating in matters regarding outsourced services for
engineering maintenance; and
      (3)   Participating in coordination/communication with other
jurisdictions/agencies.
   (C)   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding short-term and long-
term maintenance and repair needs of all aspects related to the village’s
infrastructure;
   (D)   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding all contracts for
the buying and selling of water by the village;
   (E)   Coordinate with Department Supervisors:
      (1)   Keep an up-to-date inventory of equipment and supplies:
         (a)   List of needed supplies;
         (b)   Life expectancy of equipment; and
         (c)   Cost to replace equipment with inflation.
      (2)   Maintenance of Department vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Coordinate with Community and Economic Development Committee on
available grants;
      (4)   Capital improvement plans and projects; and
      (5)   Review personnel and equipment needs.
   (F)   Budget:
      (1)   With the Finance Committee, draft a yearly budget;
      (2)   Ensure that finances under this Committee’s responsibility are
operating within their respective budgets; and
      (3)   Track and project Departments’ current year’s income and expenses.
   (G)   Village codes and ordinances:
      (1)   Review village’s codes/ordinances that may fall under this
Committee’s responsibility;
      (2)   Recommend any updates or changes that are needed; and
      (3)   Coordinate with the Village Clerk to ensure that all updates or
changes are promptly recorded in all master copies of the code/ordinance books.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.32 COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   This Committee will address issues related to community development:
      (1)   Comprehensive planning;
      (2)   Growth strategies;
      (3)   Community services; and
      (4)   Economic development:
         (a)   Business retention;
         (b)   Attract new businesses;
         (c)   Support and promote local businesses; and
         (d)   Plans and incentives.
   (B)   Development Best Practices Standards, the compatibility of
residential, commercial, and industrial land usage within the village;
   (C)   Grants:
      (1)   Researching grants and other funding sources;
      (2)   Assisting other committees with grant resources and available
grants;
      (3)   Have an understanding of the different types of grants and from
different sources; and
      (4)   With the other committees, identify and prioritize projects that
are needed.
   (D)   Budget:
      (1)   With the Finance Committee, draft a yearly budget; and
      (2)   Ensure that finances under this Committee’s responsibility is
operating within their respective budget.
   (E)   Promote the village’s:
      (1)   Tourism;
      (2)   Activities/events; and
      (3)   Business climate.
   (F)   Reach out to other comparable communities to get ideas to improve the
community;
   (G)   Among the strategies that will be considered is the use of:
      (1)   Tax increment financing;
      (2)   Sales tax rebates; and
      (3)   Business assistance programs.
   (H)   The Committee shall review:
      (1)   Annexation petitions;
      (2)   Development plans;
      (3)   Subdivision plats; and
      (4)   Other associated land issues.
   (I)   Review regulations concerning:
      (1)   Participating in the identification and development of initiatives
relating to the marketing of village assets and programs;
      (2)   Identifying and developing initiatives to achieve economic gain to
the village while preserving the integrity of the village;
      (3)   Communicating information and events of the village to the public;
      (4)   Participating in the comprehensive planning of village uses, both
development and redevelopment;
      (5)   Participating in planning requests, including development and
redevelopment; and
      (6)   Participating in the review of all economic incentive policies and
agreements.
   (J)   Village codes and ordinances:
      (1)   Review village code/ordinances that may fall under this Committee’s
responsibility;
      (2)   Recommend any updates or changes that are needed; and
      (3)   Coordinate with the Village Clerk to ensure that all updates or
changes are promptly recorded in all master copies of the code/ordinance books.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.33 HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The village is united by a set of broadly accepted and practiced
principles.
   (B)   The Village Human Resources Committee seeks to recruit and develop a
skilled, diverse, ethical, and agile workforce that utilizes technology and
innovative solutions to deliver exceptional, efficient, and cost-effective
services to respond to evolving community demands, including:
      (1)   Personnel recommendations;
      (2)   Personnel policies;
      (3)   Oversees the hiring, with the input of the Committee Chair, from
which the person is applying;
      (4)   Salary with the input of the Financial Committee Chair;
      (5)   Benefits, including health insurance;
      (6)   Training and ongoing needs and standards of all city employees;
      (7)   Employee evaluations, working with other committees;
      (8)   Enable the village to employ and retain competent staff to
accomplish the village’s work and to efficiently and cost-effectively provide
essential village services;
      (9)   The Committee will also be informed of and review all employee
grievances and related disciplinary actions, as well as legal activities
connected with the same; and
      (10)   By working to ensure that village’s employees have the benefit of
the latest training in their specialties, as well as comprehensive programs for
physical and mental health and wellbeing. The Human Resources Committee allows
the village to remain an attractive and competitive employment option and helps
to keep the quality of life high for all residents.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 30.34 PARKS AND BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Oversees the Village Park and the overall look of the village to
ensure that the village is attractive to businesses, citizens, and visitors;
   (B)   Coordinate with the Park Supervisor:
      (1)   Keep an up-to-date inventory of equipment and supplies:
         (a)   List of needed supplies;
         (b)   Life expectancy of equipment; and
         (c)   Cost to replace equipment with inflation.
      (2)   Maintenance of Departments’ vehicles and equipment.
   (C)   Budget:
      (1)   With the Finance Committee, draft a yearly budget;
      (2)   Ensure that finances under this Committee’s responsibility is
operating within their respective budgets; and
      (3)   Track and project departments’ current year’s income and expenses.
   (D)   Communicate with the Park Supervisor:
      (1)   Maintenance;
      (2)   Projects; and
      (3)   Activities/events.
   (E)   Coordinate with Community and Economic Development Committee to
research grants and other funding sources for the Village Park and the overall
beautification of the village;
   (F)   With the assistance of the Public Safety Committee, ensure the overall
look of the village is inviting; and
   (G)   Village codes and ordinances:
      (1)   Review village’s codes/ordinances that may fall under this
Committee’s responsibility;
      (2)   Recommend any updates or changes that are needed; and
      (3)   Coordinate with the Village Clerk to ensure that all updates or
changes are promptly recorded in all master copies of the code/ordinance books.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Village Officers Generally
   
31.001   Elections
   
31.002   Appointment of elected officials
   
31.003   Municipal officers; regulations
   
31.004   Resignation of appointed officials
   
31.005   Qualifications; elective office
   
31.006   Bonds of village officers
   
31.007   Trustees of the village
   
31.008   Liability insurance
   
31.009   Salaries regulation
Mayor
   
31.020   Election
   
31.021   Mayor pro tem; temporary chairperson
   
31.022   Vacancy
   
31.023   Chief executive officer
   
31.024   Mayor’s signature
   
31.025   Appointment of officers
   
31.026   Supervise conduct of officers; removal of officers
   
31.027   Designation of officer’s duties
   
31.028   Formal occasions
   
31.029   General duties
   
31.030   Local Liquor Commissioner
   
31.031   Health Commissioner
   
31.032   Deciding vote
Clerk
   
31.045   Election
   
31.046   Vacancy
   
31.047   Publication of ordinance, Board minutes, records
   
31.048   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.049   Preparation of documents, commissions, and licenses
   
31.050   Administration of oaths
   
31.051   Outstanding bonds
   
31.052   Reports
   
31.053   Successor
   
31.054   Payments
   
31.055   Notification to persons appointed to office
   
31.056   Other duties
   
31.057   Deputy Clerk
Treasurer
   
31.070   Committee established
   
31.071   Finance Committee
   
31.072   Treasurer appointed; vacancy
   
31.073   Money, warrants, accounts, payments
   
31.074   Warrant register
   
31.075   Personal use of funds
   
31.076   Bond
   
31.077   Special assessments
   
31.078   Bookkeeping
   
31.079   Statements
   
31.080   Report delinquent officers
   
31.081   Year-end report
   
31.082   Deposit of funds
   
31.083   Investments
Judiciary
   
31.095   Appointment of Attorney
   
31.096   Duties
Collector
   
31.110   Office established
   
31.111   Duties
   
31.112   Village Clerk as Collector
   
31.113   Compensation
Budget Officer
   
31.125   Office established
   
31.126   Powers and duties
Fire Department
   
31.140   Established
   
31.141   Fire Chief
   
31.142   Assistant Fire Chief
   
31.143   Members of Fire Department
   
31.144   Ownership of property
   
31.145   Rights and privileges
   
31.146   Obstruction
   
31.147   Compensation
   
31.148   Mitigation rate charged
Police Department
   
31.160   Department established
   
31.161   Police Committee
   
31.162   Head of Department
   
31.163   Appointment
   
31.164   Salary
   
31.165   Duties
   
31.166   Shift work
   
31.167   Enforcement of laws
   
31.168   Execute warrants
   
31.169   Legal processes
   
31.170   Assisting peace officers
   
31.171   Aiding Fire Department
   
31.172   Failure to perform
   
31.173   Aiding in escape
   
31.174   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
31.175   Part-time police officers
VILLAGE OFFICERS GENERALLY
§ 31.001 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of 10 ILCS concerning municipal
elections shall govern the conduct of the village elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials
shall occur at the first regular or special meeting of the Village Board in the
month of May following the consolidated election in April.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10 and 5/3.1-10-15
§ 31.002 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   No Trustee of this village, during the term of office for which he or she is
elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by the
Mayor except if such Trustee is granted a leave of absence from such office.
Any appointment in violation of this section is void.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15
§ 31.003 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Qualifications; appointive office.
      (1)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive municipal office
unless that person is a qualified elector of the municipality or otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   The residency requirements do not apply, however, to municipal
engineers, health officers, attorneys, or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge, to appointed Village Treasurers, or to appointed Village
Collectors (unless the village has designated by ordinance that the Village
Clerk shall also hold the office of Collector).
   (C)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Village
Board upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, paper, furniture, and other
things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the village.
Within five days after notification and request, any person who has been an
officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his or her successor in
office, all property, books, and effects in his or her possession, belonging to
the municipality, or pertaining to the office he or she has held. Upon his or
her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby,
and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99. He or she shall not receive his or her final check until his or her
Village Code Book and keys are turned over to the Village Clerk.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Fees; report of fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled
to charge or receive any fees as against the village. All officers of the
village entitled to receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make
a report thereof under oath to the Village Board prior to the regular meeting
of each month. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service, and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the Village Treasury.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the village shall
perform such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as
the Village Board may provide by law.
   (H)   Conservators of the peace.
      (1)   The Mayor and police officers in municipalities shall be
conservators of the peace. Those persons and others authorized by ordinance
shall have power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper court;
and
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace
prescribed by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   All warrants for the violation of municipal ordinances, or the
state criminal law, directed to any person, may be served and executed within
the limits of a municipality by any police officer of the municipality. For
this purpose, police officers have all the common law and statutory power of
sheriffs.
   (I)   Oath.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
 
I, ________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of
the United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of __________________
according to the best of my ability.
 
      (2)   The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this
oath or affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6, 5/3.1-10-30, 5/3.1-10-35, 5/
3.1-10-40, 5/3.1-15-25, 5/3.1-15-20
§ 31.004 RESIGNATION OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   Any officer of the village may resign from office. If such officer resigns,
he or she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been chosen
and has qualified. If there is a failure to appoint a village officer, or the
person appointed fails to qualify, the person filling the office shall continue
in office until his or her successor has been chosen and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-22)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 31.005 QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided in the
municipality at least one year next preceding the election.
   (B)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office if that
person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the
municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
any infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony.
   (C)   A person is not eligible for the office of Trustee unless that person
has resided in the municipality, as the case may be, at least one year next
preceding the election or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5
§ 31.006 BONDS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bond of village officers, required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30,
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $3,000;
      (2)   Village Treasurer: $10,000; and
      (3)   Village Clerk: $5,000.
   (B)   Premium payable by village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
   (C)   Surety.
      (1)   The Village Board shall not receive or approve any bond or security
whereon the name of the Village Board, any one of the Board of Trustees, or any
elected or appointed officer of the village appear as bondsperson or security.
      (2)   If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is
approved by the Village Board, or if any bondsperson, after becoming such, is
elected or appointed to any village office, this section shall not act as a
release of any such obligation incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 5 ILCS 270/1
§ 31.007 TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE.
   No member of the Board of Trustees of the village, during the term of office
for which he or she is elected, may accept, be appointed to, or hold any office
by the appointment of the President of the Board of Trustees, unless the Board
member is granted a leave of absence from such office, or unless he or she
first resigns from the Board of Trustees, or unless the holding of another
office is authorized by law. Any appointment in violation of this section is
void.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2
§ 31.008 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase of. The Village Board shall have the power to purchase
liability insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees,
and elected officials. Said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the
performance of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover, and protect any
liability which the municipal corporation, officer, employee, or elected
official may incur. When the insurance has been purchased, the village shall be
responsible for all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid
liability insurance policy covering the municipal corporation, officer,
employee, or elected official.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   If the Village Board elects not to purchase liability insurance
covering and insuring municipal officers, elected officials and employees as
provided in this section, then the village shall indemnify and cause to defend
municipal officers, elected officials, and employees from any claim filed by an
individual, partnership, or corporation when the claim is founded on any act or
omission of the municipal officers, elected officials, or employees while in
the performance of their official duties, except the village shall not
indemnify, but shall defend any municipal officer, elected official, or
employee from any claim made by an individual, partnership, or corporation
wherein the claim alleges that the municipal officer, elected official, or
employee acted intentionally, maliciously, or wantonly and further, shall not
indemnify or cause to defend the officials or employees where the claim is
directly or indirectly related to the negligent care or use of a vehicle as
defined by the Illinois Revised Statutes, and the village shall not indemnify
any municipal officer, elected official or employee from any claim made by a
municipal officer, elected official, or employee.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the village shall
not indemnify or cause to defend any municipal officers, elected officials, or
employees if the municipal officers, elected officials, or employees have
liability insurance insuring the municipal officers, elected officials, or
employees from the alleged claim; however, the village shall indemnify the
municipal officer, elected official, or employee the personal deductible limits
of this personal policy.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/201 et seq.
§ 31.009 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed.
      (1)   No salary or other compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
      (2)   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established
in the budget. The salary of elected officials must be established in an
ordinance other than the budget ordinance at least two months prior to the
general municipal election in which voting is held for those offices.
      (3)   On October 7, 1996, the Village Trustees established the following
salaries by Ordinance 97-5:
         (a)   Mayor: $300;
         (b)   Clerk: $300;
         (c)   Treasurer: $350;
         (d)   Collector: salary per month as provided by the annual
appropriation; and
         (e)   Trustees: $50 per regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-29)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 and 5/3.1-50-6
MAYOR
§ 31.020 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-25-15
§ 31.021 MAY PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to perform
official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the office,
the corporate authorities shall elect one of their members to act as Mayor pro
tem. The Mayor pro tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform his or
her duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor but shall not be
entitle to vote both as Mayor pro tem and as a Trustee.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor, or Mayor pro tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary chairperson.
The temporary chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and
a right to vote in the capacity as trustee on any ordinance, resolution, or
motion. (Prior Code, § 1-2-41)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35
§ 31.022 VACANCY.
   (A)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election.
   (B)   The Village Board shall elect one of its members as Acting Mayor, who
shall perform the duties and shall possess all the rights and powers of the
Mayor until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-42)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 31.023 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village, and he or she
shall see to the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. He or she shall
preside over the meetings of the Board of Trustees and perform such duties as
may be required of him or her by statute or law. He or she shall have
supervision over all of the executive officers and village employees; provided,
however, his or her control is subject to the power of the Village Board to
prescribe the duties of various officers and employees. He or she shall have
the power and authority at any reasonable time to inspect all books, papers,
and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any officer of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-44)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10 and 5/3.1-35-20
§ 31.024 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions, permits, and
licenses granted by authority of the Village Board, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to any
written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send
written notice of this designation to the Village Board stating the name of the
person whom he has selected and what instrument the person will have authority
to sign. A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath of the person so designated shall be attached to
the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be recorded in the
journal of the Village Board and then filed with the Village Clerk. When the
signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the direction of
the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all respects, shall be as
binding on the village as if signed by the Mayor in person.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-45)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30
§ 31.025 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers
of the village whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year, and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
   (B)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village whose appointment
will not otherwise be provided for by law, and whenever a vacancy shall occur
in any office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to
fill, the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board,
communicate to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the
concurrence of the Village Board in such appointment, the Mayor may designate
some suitable person to discharge the functions of the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-46)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5 and 50 ILCS 105/2
§ 31.026 SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS; REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the village
and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their
respective offices. Except where otherwise provided by statute, the Mayor may
remove any officer appointed by the Mayor under this code, on any written
charge, whenever the Mayor is of the opinion that the interests of the village
demand removal.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall report the reasons for removal to the corporate
authorities at a meeting to be held not less than five days nor more than ten
days after the removal.
      (2)   If the Mayor fails or refuses to report to the corporate
authorities the reasons for the removal, or if the corporate authorities, by a
two-thirds vote of all members authorized by law to be elected disapprove of
the removal, the officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which
the officer was removed.
   (C)   (1)   The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be entered upon
the journal of the corporate authorities.
      (2)   Upon restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and take a new
oath of office.
      (3)   No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-47)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10
§ 31.027 DESIGNATION OF OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the Village Attorney, and the Mayor shall have the
power to delegate to any appointive officer, any duty which is to be performed
when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 31.028 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and
receptions, but in his or her absence or inability to attend any such function,
the Mayor may select any other village officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-49)
§ 31.029 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The Mayor, from time to time, may and annually shall give the Village
Board information relative to the affairs of the village, and may recommend for
its consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-50)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5
§ 31.030 LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Local Liquor Commissioner with all the
powers to license and/or revoke any village liquor licenses according to state
and village laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-52)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 31.031 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of village authority as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-53)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-16-1
§ 31.032 DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. He or
she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion, except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion even though there is not tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes to adopt an ordinance,
resolution, or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor pro tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor pro tem.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-54)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5
CLERK
§ 31.045 ELECTION.
   The Village Clerk shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve
until a successor is elected and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-56)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-5-9
§ 31.046 VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy in the office of the Village Clerk elected under the
statutes occurs during the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder
of the term by the appointment of a Clerk by the Mayor and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-57)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90
§ 31.047 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES, BOARD MINUTES, RECORDS.
   (A)   Ordinances. The Village Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
Village Board and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or forfeiture, or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the corporate
authorities, or be published at least once within 30 days after passage, in one
or more newspapers published in the village.
   (B)   Minutes; records.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Village Board
and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “The Minutes of the Village
Board,” a full and faithful record of its proceedings.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept
for that purpose all ordinances passed by the Village Board, and at the foot of
the record of each ordinance so recorded, he or she shall make a memorandum of
the date of passage, when published, and a memorandum of the publication of
such ordinance.
   (C)   Bonds. He or she shall record, in proper books for the purpose, all
official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was entered of
record and the book and pages where recorded.
   (D)   Issue notices.
      (1)   He or she shall issue and cause to be served upon all Trustees
notices of all special meetings of the Village Board.
      (2)   Also, notices to the members of the different committees of that
body and all persons whose attendance may be required before any such
committee, when so directed by the Chairperson thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-58)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 5-1-2-5, and 5/3.1-35-90
§ 31.048 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the Village Board
and to the officers of the village, all petitions, communications, reports, and
resolutions, orders, claims, and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Board on demand therefor.
   (B)   He or she shall also, without delay, deliver to the Mayor all
ordinances or resolutions, orders, and claims which may require to be approved
or otherwise acted upon the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-59)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 31.049 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS, COMMISSIONS, AND LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits, and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 31.050 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-63)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20
§ 31.051 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office, in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued,
and when the village bonds are issued, or purchased, or paid, or canceled, the
book or books shall show that fact, and in his or her annual report, the Clerk
shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of
sale with each and every item of expense thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-64)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110
§ 31.052 REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the Village Board a statement or report in writing of all the
monies received and checks drawn during the preceding month, showing therein
from or what sources and on what account monies were received, and for what
purposes and on what account the checks were drawn or paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 31.053 SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office all books,
records, papers, maps, and effects of every detail and description belonging to
the village or pertaining to his or her office, and not in actual use and
possession of other village officers, and upon the expiration of the his or her
official term, he or she shall deliver all such books, records, papers, and
effects to his or her successor in office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-66)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-14-2
§ 31.054 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare daily an itemized list of all monies received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the Village Treasurer and shall also pay
over to the Treasurer all monies received by the Clerk and take a receipt
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-67)
§ 31.055 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   Within five days after an appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify all
persons appointed to office of their appointment. The office becomes vacant
unless the person appointed qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-68)
§ 31.056 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to his office as are or may be imposed upon him or her by law
or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-69)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40
§ 31.057 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, when authorized by the Village Board, may appoint
the Deputy Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the
village thereto whenever required.
   (B)   In signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of the
Village Clerk followed with the word, “by” and the Deputy Clerk’s name and the
words, “Deputy Clerk.”
   (C)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from the Village Clerk’s
office in the Village Hall, and only when either written direction has been
given by the Village Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the
Village Board has determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-70)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10, 5/3.1-10-45, and 5/3.1-35-95
TREASURER
§ 31.070 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the Finance Committee. It shall embrace the
Village Board Committee on Finance, the Village Treasurer, and the Budget
Office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-72)
§ 31.071 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing committee on finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the condition and
needs thereof, shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and
Village Board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had and generally,
shall do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-73)
§ 31.072 TREASURER APPOINTED; VACANCY.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall be appointed and serve for a one-year term by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board and he or she shall
serve until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
   (B)   All vacancies shall be filled in the manner prescribed for the Village
Clerk in §
31.046.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-74)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.073 MONEY, WARRANTS, ACCOUNTS, PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to this
village and shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
Village Clerk and not otherwise, and shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (B)   He or she shall give to every person paying money into the Village
Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
accounts paid, and he or she shall file copies of such receipts with the Clerk
with the monthly reports.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-75)
§ 31.074 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid
showing the number, date, and amount of each, the fund from which paid, and the
name of the person to whom and when paid, and shall cancel all warrants as soon
as they are redeemed by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-76)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 and 5/3.1-35-45
§ 31.075 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village and in his
or her custody separate and distinct from the Treasurer’s own money and shall
not use, either directly or indirectly, the village’s monies and warrants, for
the personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any other person.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall subject the Treasurer to immediate
removal from office by the corporate authorities, who may declare the
Treasurer’s office vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-77)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55
§ 31.076 BOND.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due to
neglect of duty or wrongful act on his or her part, and the amount of such bond
shall not be less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes and special
assessments received by the Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding
five fiscal years, nor less than one and one-half times the largest amount
which the Board estimates will be in his or her custody at any one time, nor
less than three times the number of residents of the village, as determined by
the last Federal Census. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk as required by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-78)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45
§ 31.077 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
amount entitled thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-79)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85
§ 31.078 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such a manner as
to show with accuracy, all monies received and disbursed by him or her for the
village, stating from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on
what account paid out, and in such a way that the books and accounts may be
readily investigated and understood, and the books and accounts and all files
and papers of his or her office shall be, at all times, open to examination by
the Mayor and the Finance Committee of the Board. 
(Prior Code, § 1-2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 31.079 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the regular
monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the municipality as shown by those books up to the time of the report.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-81)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45
§ 31.080 REPORT DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the Village Clerk any
officer of the village authorized to receive money for the use of the village
who may fail to make a return of the monies received by the Treasurer at the
time required by law or by ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-82)
§ 31.081 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Treasurer
shall prepare and file annually with the Village Clerk an account of monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year as
specified in this section.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall show the following in such account:
      (1)   All monies received by the village, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the village, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (B)(1), the term ACCOUNT shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user, or such other persons
whose payments to the village are credited to the general account;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, all monies paid out by
the village where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds $1,000,
giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid, and the
total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
      (3)   All monies paid out by the village as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid,
and the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
and
      (4)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account groups
of the village as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed with the
appropriate state agency of the state.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such account from the Village Treasurer, the Village
Clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers
published in the village. The Treasurer shall file a copy of the report with
the County Treasurer as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-83)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65
§ 31.082 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all funds and monies in
his or her custody belonging to the village in such places of deposit as have
been designated by division (D) below. When requested by the Treasurer, the
corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which may be kept the
funds and monies of the village in the custody of the Treasurer.
      (2)   When a bank has been designated as a depository, it shall continue
as such depository until ten days have elapsed after a new depository is
designated and has qualified by furnishing the statements of resources and
liabilities as required by this section. When a new depository is designated,
the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties of the Municipal Treasurer
of the fact in writing at least five days before the transfer of funds. The
Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or money that
the Treasurer deposits in a designated bank or savings and loan association
while the funds and money are so deposited.
   (B)   The Municipal Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan
association to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a
market value at least equal to the amount of the funds or monies of the
municipality deposited with the bank or savings and loan association that
exceeds the insurance limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   The Municipal Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposits investment, reinvestment, or
withdrawal of municipal funds.
   (D)   (1)   The Treasurer may:
         (a)   Combine monies from more than one fund of a single municipality
for the purpose of investing those funds; and
         (b)   Join with other municipal treasurers or municipalities for the
purpose of investing the municipal funds of which the Treasurer has custody.
      (2)   Joint investments shall be made only in investments authorized by
law for the investment of municipal funds. When monies of more than one fund of
a single municipality or monies of more than one municipality are combined for
investment purposes, the monies combined for that purpose shall be accounted
for separately in all respects and the earnings from investments shall be
separately and individually computed, recorded, and credited to the fund or
municipality, as the case may be, for which the investment was acquired.
   (E)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds as
permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act.
   (F)   The Treasurer shall be discharged from liability for all funds or
monies which he or she deposits in a designated bank while the funds and monies
are so deposited. If the village funds or monies are deposited in a designated
bank, however, the amount of such deposits shall not exceed 75% of the bank’s
capital stock and surplus, and the Treasurer shall be responsible for funds or
monies deposited in the bank in excess of this limitation.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-85)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/6, 65 ILCS 5/3-10-3, and 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-35-50
§ 31.083 INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to invest surplus funds or
reserve funds of the village in the following types of investments:
      (1)   General obligation securities of the United States of America or
the state;
      (2)   Certificates of deposit and time deposits in any bank where such
investments are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company;
      (3)   Short-term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage
Association; and
      (4)   Insured money market accounts.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer is required to file a list with the Village
Clerk of all banks and financial institutions in which funds and investments of
the village are held.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-86)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-3
JUDICIARY
§ 31.095 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the
Village Board, for the term of one year, unless sooner removed for cause, and
until the successor shall have been appointed and qualified. The Attorney shall
have full charge of the law affairs of the village and shall be known as the
Village Attorney and shall receive compensation for office services and advice,
and shall receive reasonable fees for other service rendered when, in his or
her judgment, or in the judgment of the Mayor or Village Board, the same are
necessary or are for the best interests of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-88)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.096 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for village. The Attorney shall prosecute or defend on
behalf of the village in all cases in which the interests of the corporation or
any officer thereof are involved, and the Village Clerk shall furnish him or
her with certified copies of any ordinance, bond, or paper in his or her
keeping necessary to be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. He or she shall, when required, advise the
Village Board or any officer in all matters of law in which the interests of
the corporation are involved, and shall draw such ordinances, bonds, forms, and
contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required of him or her
by the Mayor, the Village Board, or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. He or she shall direct executions to be issued upon all
judgments recovered in favor of the village, and he or she shall direct their
prompt service. He or she shall examine all the bills of the officers of
courts, and of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their
correctness and the liability of the village therefor.
   (D)   Violations of ordinances. He or she shall institute and prosecute an
action in every case of violation of a village ordinance when instructed to do
so by the Mayor or the Village Board.
   (E)   Prosecution of suits. He or she shall not be required to prosecute any
suit or action arising under the ordinances of the village when, upon
investigation of the same, he or she shall become satisfied that the complaint
was instituted maliciously, vexatiously, or without just cause, and he or she
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as may
be deemed just or equitable.
   (F)   Collection of taxes. He or she is hereby authorized and instructed to
enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the village is interested and to attend all sales of real
or personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments and to bid thereat on behalf of the village.
   (G)   Commissions. The Village Attorney shall act as the legal advisory for
the utilities systems, for the Plan Commission, for the Zoning Board of
Appeals, and for all other boards and commissions hereafter established by the
Village Board. He or she shall perform the legal services as may be required
for those boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-89)
COLLECTOR
§ 31.110 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the office of Village Collector, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-96)
§ 31.111 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Collector shall have such duties as may be prescribed by
statute and shall preserve all warrants returned to the office, and shall keep
all books and accounts in a manner that the Board of Trustees may prescribe.
All of the Village Collector’s warrants, books, and vouchers, and all papers
pertaining to the office, may be examined at any time by the Mayor, Village
Clerk, or any member or committee of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Weekly, and oftener if required by the Board of Trustees, the Village
Collector shall pay over to the Village Treasurer all money collected by him or
her from any source whatever, taking the Village Treasurer’s receipt therefor
in duplicate and filing one of the receipts immediately with the Village Clerk.
At that time, or on demand, the Village Clerk shall give the Village Collector
a copy of any receipt so filed.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-97)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-25
§ 31.112 VILLAGE CLERK AS COLLECTOR.
   The person who holds the elective office of Village Clerk may be appointed
as Village Collector. Any person serving in both capacities shall receive
compensation for each of these offices.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-98)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-13-11
§ 31.113 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Village Collector shall be set in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-99)
BUDGET OFFICER
§ 31.125 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the office of Budget Officer, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-100)
§ 31.126 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Budget Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Permit and encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all village departments, commissions, and boards;
   (B)   Compile an annual budget in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/8-2-93;
   (C)   Examine all books and records of all village departments, commissions,
and boards which relate to monies received by the village, village departments,
commissions, and boards, and paid out by the village, village departments,
commissions, and boards, debts and accounts receivable, amounts owed by the or
to the village, village departments, commissions, and boards;
   (D)   Obtain such additional information from the village, village
departments, commissions, and boards as may be useful to the budget officer for
the purposes of compiling a village budget, such information to be furnished by
the village, village [missing text]
(Prior Code, § 1-2-101)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.140 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village, for the protection of property from fire and the extinguishment and
prevention of fires, to be known as the Village Fire Department, and which
shall embrace one Fire Chief, one Assistant Fire Chief, one Secretary-
Treasurer, and members of the Village Fire Department, as shall be required to
serve the village.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-6-1
§ 31.141 FIRE CHIEF.
   There is hereby created the office of Fire Chief of the Fire Department of
the village, who, on the first Monday in May of each year shall be appointed by
the Mayor, and his or her name shall be submitted for approval by the Village
Board and shall hold office for the term of one year and until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-2)
§ 31.142 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   The Assistant Fire Chief shall be designated at the same time by the
appointed Fire Chief and shall hold his or her office for the term of one year
and until his or her successor is elected and qualified and shall perform all
the duties of and in the absence of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-3)
§ 31.143 MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The members of the Fire Department shall be elected by the Fire Department
and be subject to and under the control of the Fire Chief at all times.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-7)
§ 31.144 OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief shall have control of all apparatus used in the
extinguishment and prevention of fires and shall cause the same to be kept in
order at all times.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-8)
§ 31.145 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The Fire Department shall have the following rights and privileges:
   (A)   Right-of-way at all times over all streets, alleys, and other public
thoroughfares in the village and the right to go in or upon private property at
any time that is necessary to do so and to use water wherever found most
convenient in time of fire;
   (B)   Right in case of fire to have full control of premises afire and
property adjoining thereto; and
   (C)   There shall be no speed limit enforced by the village against the Fire
Department while going to a fire, unless unreasonable disregard for safety is
evident. On returning from a fire, all rules of the road apply and the right-
of-way privilege is rescinded.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-9)
§ 31.146 OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall wilfully or maliciously hinder, disturb, or obstruct the
operation of the Fire Department or other implement for the extinguishment or
prevention of fire.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.147 COMPENSATION.
   The officers and members of the Fire Department shall receive for their
duties or services rendered such compensation as may, from time to time, be
allowed by a majority vote of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-11)
§ 31.148 MITIGATION RATE CHARGED.
   (A)   The village shall initiate mitigation rates for the delivery of
emergency and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for personnel,
supplies, and equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency incidents
as listed in “Exhibit A” of the ordinance from which this section is derived.
The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the services and that
which is usual, customary, and reasonable (UCR) as shown in “Exhibit A,” which
may include any services, personnel, supplies, and equipment and with baselines
established by addendum to this section.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party(s) through their
insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party(s) will be
billed directly. Village residents who pay property taxes to the village will
only have a bill sent to their insurance provider, not be billed directly.
   (C)   The Fire Department’s Village Board may make rules or regulations and
from time to time may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations, not
consistent with this section, as they may deem necessary or expedient in
respect to billing for these mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
   (D)   (1)   Mitigation rates will only apply to persons who are not
residents of the village. Residents within the village boundaries currently
subsidize these emergency costs through their property taxes. Responses
involving intoxicated drivers, HAZMAT clean-up, intentional and negligent acts,
or any act that violates any ordinance, local, state, or federal statute may be
subject to all applicable rates regardless of residency.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BUSINESS. Includes any joint stock company, corporation, association,
joint venture, limited liability company, club, or partnership.
         RESIDENT.
            1.   Any person who maintains his or her full-time residence within
the village; or
            2.   Is the majority owner of a business that operates from real
property owned by the business located within the village.
   (E)   The mitigation rates listed in “Exhibit A” will increase by 7.1%
annually or based on the annual percentage increase in the consumer price index
(CPI), as developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of
Labor, whichever is more. Rate adjustments will occur on the anniversary date
of this section to keep the Fire Department’s cost recovery program in
conformity with increasing operating expenses.
(Ord. 2024-7-A1, passed 9-5-2023)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.160 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government
of the village which shall be known as the Police Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the Village Board’s standing committee on police, one
Chief of Police, and such other regular patrol officers as the Village Board
may hereafter, from time to time, provide for, and also such special police
officers as the Mayor, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, may
appoint and commission.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 31.161 POLICE COMMITTEE.
   The Village Board:
   (A)   Shall exercise a general supervision over the affairs of the Police
Department. It shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof;
   (B)   Shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village
Board so that a full understanding shall be had; and
   (C)   Generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of
the Department.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 31.162 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police of the village shall be the head of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 31.163 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, to serve for one year, or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 31.164 SALARY.
   He or she shall receive such compensation as may be provided by the
ordinances of the village, or by resolution of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 31.165 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall devote his or her entire time to the
performance of the duties of his or her office, and is hereby charged with the
preservation of the peace and order and safety of the village, and with the
duty of protecting the rights of persons and property, and of enforcing all
laws and also all orders of the Village Board.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions,
and defects on the highways or other public places and shall cause the same to
be abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer
whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall attend, either in person, or by deputy, all
meetings of the Village Board, execute all its orders, and close the Board
Chamber upon the adjournment of that body. He or she shall also execute all
warrants or other legal process required to be executed by him or her under any
ordinance of the village.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall supervise all police employees, both regular
and auxiliary.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall see that all records are maintained in a
correct and orderly fashion.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall obtain the necessary authorization to order
all parts and equipment necessary for the operation of the Police Department.
   (G)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a work/vacation schedule for the
Police Department.
   (H)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for animal control in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 31.166 SHIFT WORK.
   Each patrol officer shall serve on the day or night force, as the Chief
shall direct, and the Mayor may, when necessary, detail any police officer for
the discharge of any particular or special duty, and may also require all
police officers to perform police duty at any time of the day or night.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 31.167 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS.
   Each and every member of the police force, when on duty, shall devote his or
her entire time to the proper discharge of the duty of his or her station,
according to the law and the ordinances of the village, and the rules and
regulations of the Police Department, and it shall be his or her duty to
preserve, at all times, the order, peace, and quiet of the village and to
enforce the ordinances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 31.168 EXECUTE WARRANTS.
   Every member of the Department shall have power, within the corporate limits
of the village, to serve and execute warrants or other legal process for the
apprehension and commitment of persons charged with or held for the commission
of any crime or misdemeanor, or the violation of any law or ordinance of the
village, and while so serving or executing or assisting in the service of
execution of any such warrant or legal process, he or she shall be vested with
all the common law and statutory powers of police officers for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 31.169 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute village warrants,
or other like legal process, without the corporate limits of the village, and
within such distance therefrom as is authorized by law, in all cases when any
ordinance of the Village Board made pursuant to law, shall prescribe a penalty
for the violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting, or
doing business within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-13)
§ 31.170 ASSISTING PEACE OFFICERS.
   (A)   A peace officer making a lawful arrest may command the aid of persons
over the age of 18.
   (B)   A person commanded to aid a peace officer shall have the same
authority to arrest as that peace officer.
   (C)   A person commanded to aid a peace officer shall not be civilly liable
for any reasonable conduct in aid of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 725 ILCS 5/107-8
§ 31.171 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire, and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 31.172 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this code, or the rules and regulations of
the Department, or who shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties,
be guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions, or willful wrong or
injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 31.173 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person in this village to resist or
obstruct any member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or
to endeavor to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any
member of the police force to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody
or to attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.174 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the village shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor
of any kind, and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for
removal.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.175 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time officer shall have all the responsibilities of a
full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general
orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a part-time
police officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time officers. Part-
time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the State Police
Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and requirements of the
ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess no prior felony convictions;
      (6)   Possess a valid state driver’s license; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the discretion
of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and be removed by the village authorities at any time. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 8-6-2012)
CHAPTER 32: CIVIL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Civil Emergencies
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Declaration of emergency
   
32.03   Curfew
   
32.04   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
32.05   Effectiveness
   
32.06   Notification
Emergency Management Agency
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Coordinator
   
32.22   Functions
   
32.23   Service as a mobile support team
   
32.24   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
32.25   Emergency action
   
32.26   Compensation
   
32.27   Reimbursement by state
   
32.28   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.29   Oath
   
32.30   Office
   
32.31   Appropriation; levy of taxes
 
   
32.99   Penalty
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 32.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
32.01, exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 32.03 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole, as he or she deems advisable, and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-3) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.04 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor of the village may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and/or
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-4) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
§ 32.05 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor, indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to
reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 32.06 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Chief of Police shall
notify the news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies
of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at
the following places within the village:
   (A)   The police station;
   (B)   The Village Hall; and
   (C)   The post office.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-6)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Local EMA to prevent, minimize, repair, and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in
accordance with the State Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975. This EMA
shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members as may be selected
by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-1)
§ 32.21 COORDINATOR.
   The Coordinator of the village EMA shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
serve until removed by the same. The Coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training, and operation of
the EMA, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor as provided by
statute. In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor, or any person designated by him or her, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-2)
§ 32.22 FUNCTIONS.
   The village EMA shall perform such EMA functions within the village as shall
be prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided in the State ESDA Act of 1975.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-3)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS A MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the village EMA organization may designate as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State EMA as
provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the village EMA organization. Any member of a mobile support
team who is a village employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the
Governor, or the State Director, shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights, and immunities incident to such employment or office.
Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village, while so
serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-4)
§ 32.24 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of EMA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and by the State Director of
EMA.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-5)
§ 32.25 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Village EMA to
cooperate fully with the State EMA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-6)
§ 32.26 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held. Members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-7)
§ 32.27 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA as prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of EMA, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to EMA
activities as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-8)
§ 32.28 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Mayor may, on recommendation of the Village Coordinator of EMA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster. In the event of enemy
caused or other disaster, the Village Coordinator of EMA is authorized, on
behalf of the village, to procure such services, supplies, equipment or
material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the exigency without
regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by the
law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as authorized by the State
ESDA Act of 1975, provided that if the Mayor meets at such time he or she shall
act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-9)
§ 32.29 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village EMA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
 
I, ____________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and
Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
affiliated with the Village of Goreville EMA organization, I will not advocate
nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or
violence.
 
(Prior Code, § 30-5-10)
§ 32.30 OFFICE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a village building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Mayor for the Village EMA as its
office.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-10)
§ 32.31 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Mayor may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner provided
by law, and may levy in addition for EMA purposes only, a tax not to exceed
$0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all
other taxes, as provided by the State ESDA Act of 1975; however, that amount
collectible under such levy shall in no event exceed $0.15 per capita.
(Prior Code, § 30-5-12)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
32.01 through
32.06 or executive order issued pursuant thereto shall be guilty of an offense
against the village and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Municipal year
   
33.02   Expenses; reimbursement
   
33.03   Official records
   
33.04   Federal Old Age and Survivor’s Insurance System
   
33.05   State Municipal Retirement Fund
Employee Benefits and Employment Policies
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Applicability
   
33.22   Appointment of officials and supervisory personnel
   
33.23   Physical examination
   
33.24   Probationary period
   
33.25   Residence requirement
   
33.26   Accidents
   
33.27   Dismissal
   
33.28   Outside employment
   
33.29   Grievance
   
33.30   Employee organizations
   
33.31   Drug testing
   
33.32   Operation of vehicles and equipment
   
33.33   Resignation
   
33.34   Personnel policy
   
33.35   Workdays and work week
   
33.36   Overtime
   
33.37   Holidays
   
33.38   Leave and absences
   
33.39   Employee health insurance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and end on the following April
30. No appointments shall be made during the last month of the municipal year
in the year of a mayoral election.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-31)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2
§ 33.02 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Each member of the corporate authorities may receive reimbursement from the
municipality for expenses incurred by the member in attending committee
meetings of the corporate authorities or for other expenses incurred by the
member in the course of performing official duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-32)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 8/3.1-50-15(B)
§ 33.03 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the village corporate seal, shall be kept in
the Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 33.04 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the village eligible
under the Federal Act.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-34)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
§ 33.05 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The village does hereby elected to participate in the State Municipal
Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 1981.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-35)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. Any person who works 32 hours or more in a work week.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. Any person who works less than 32 hours per work week.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.21 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter will apply to all municipal employees.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.22 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIALS AND SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL.
   The Village Board, with recommendation from the Mayor, shall have the
authority to employ the necessary personnel, as authorized by Board action, to
perform the necessary duties as assigned. Applicants seeking employment shall
complete a standard application form as provided by the village. It shall be
the duty of the Village Board to determine by the applicant’s history whether
the applicant has the necessary qualifications for performing the required
duties.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.23 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
   Applicants who are offered employment may undergo a complete physical
examination to be given by a physician designated by the village before
starting work and all such offered employment shall be conditioned on the
results of such examination. A report of the physician’s findings shall be on a
standard form provided by the village. This provision shall apply to full-time
employees. The physician’s fee shall be paid by the village. This provision
shall not apply to those employees hired in an emergency, or for part-time
employees. Pre-employment drug screening may be required for any employee
applying for employment with the village.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.24 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   The first six months or 180 days of service of an employee is a probationary
period during which there shall be no responsibility on the part of the village
for continued employment of the new employee. Termination of employment during
this probationary period shall not be subject to challenge by the employee.
When the probationary period is completed, seniority will date back 180 days
from the date of completion of the probationary period.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.25 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT.
   Personnel employed by the village must be bona fide residents of the
village, except at the time of appointment or employment when they need not be
residents of the village but shall establish residence in the village within
six months. This provision may be waived by the Village Board. Personnel shall
maintain an up-to-date record of residence with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.26 ACCIDENTS.
   Village personnel having knowledge of any accident which involves village
personnel or vehicles must immediately report the accident and pertinent
information to the working village supervisor and to the Village Clerk who
shall forward such information to the office of the Mayor. The Clerk shall
record the information on the applicable accident form to be forwarded to the
insurance carrier.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.27 DISMISSAL.
   The Village Board may dismiss an employee at any time for just cause. The
Mayor may suspend an employee for up to 30 working days at any time for just
cause. The working village supervisor may request the suspension of an employee
by written request to the Mayor. An employee who is dismissed or suspended
shall be given written notice of the reasons for the action. Copies of said
notice shall be forwarded to the Village Clerk and the Village Board.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.28 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   No village employee shall engage in any outside employment which will impair
the performance of his or her duties or be detrimental to the municipal
service. Prior to accepting outside employment, the employee must get approval
from the Mayor.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.29 GRIEVANCE.
   Employees with any grievance arising out of their employment by the village,
except requests for a general wage increase, shall have the right to appeal to
the department head. An appeal shall be made in writing and may be presented by
the employee individually, or by the employee’s selected representative. In the
event the grievance cannot be settled between the department head and the
employee, they shall meet with the Mayor, who shall be arbitrator. The Mayor’s
decision will be final.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.30 EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS.
   Employees of the village may fully and freely associate themselves with
organizations of their own choosing for their mutual benefit. No employee shall
be required to join any such organization as a condition of employment or
continuation thereof and the right of an employee with or without such an
organization to petition the Mayor and the Village Board is hereby recognized.
Employees of the village shall have the right to organize and designate
representatives of their own choosing from among themselves for the purpose of
collecting bargaining and the right of such representatives to meet with the
Mayor and Village Board is hereby recognized. Employees shall have the right to
negotiate with the Mayor and Village Board without representation if they see
fit to do so. Such collective bargaining or negotiation shall be conducted at a
designated time and place as is agreed upon by the employees and their
representatives and the Mayor and Village Board.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.31 DRUG TESTING.
   The village participates in a random drug testing program as required by the
Department of Transportation. Employees who are tested positive following
random testing will be immediately suspended from work without pay. During the
suspension, accumulated sick, vacation, or compensated time cannot be used or
accumulated. Certification of successful completion of a rehabilitation program
will be required before an employee can return to work. The expense of the
rehabilitation program will be the responsibility of the employee. An employee
testing positive a second time will be discharged from his’ position. Village
personnel injured while on duty may be subject to drug screening by medical
personnel at the discretion of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.32 OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Employees will operate village vehicles and equipment in a safe manner.
Employees are required to maintain the proper operator’s licenses at their
expense. Village vehicles may only be driven home at night when it is in the
best interest of the village, i.e., to facilitate quick response to emergency
situations. Village vehicles shall not be used for personal business or to
transport unauthorized passengers.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.33 RESIGNATION.
   To resign in good standing, appointed personnel shall submit resignations to
the Village Board two weeks in advance of the effective date of their
resignation. Employed personnel shall submit resignations to the Village Board
two weeks in advance of their resignation. Employees must resign in good
standing to receive payment for any accumulated vacation, sick, and compensated
time.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.34 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   Employees shall abide by the rules and policies set forth in the Village
Personnel Handbook.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.35 WORKDAYS AND WORK WEEK.
   Unless otherwise agreed upon or provided for and except in case of emergency
as determined by the working village supervisor or Mayor, the municipal work
week shall be 40 hours per week. There shall be provided at least eight hours’
rest in each 24-hour period. The working village supervisor shall establish a
normal workday specifically designating the starting time, the quitting time,
break time, the lunch period, and days off. Employees shall be at their places
of work according to these departmental regulations. All departments shall
maintain and attendance record of employees and shall furnish reports to the
Mayor and Board upon request. Department heads are required to sign the time
sheets of their employees before time sheets are submitted to the payroll
administrator.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.36 OVERTIME.
   Work in excess of 40 hours in any work week shall be paid at overtime rate
of one and one-half times the straight time rate, or by compensatory time off
at the rate of one and one-half times the straight rate if work schedules will
allow such time off without impairing the village services. The working village
supervisor shall give approval before time off is allowed. Compensated time
shall not accumulate to a total of more than 40 hours unless work schedules
will not allow use of time. Overtime that falls on Sunday will be paid at two
times the straight rate.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.37 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Holidays to be observed with pay are New Year’s Day, Martin Luther
King Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Juneteenth,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving,
Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day. The Village Hall will be closed on Friday
following Thanksgiving but is not a holiday for payroll purposes. Employees
working that day will be paid as a regular workday. When a holiday falls on
Sunday, the following Monday will be observed. When a holiday falls on
Saturday, the preceding Friday will be observed.
   (B)   Holiday pay shall be limited to the regular scheduled work hours of
the normal workday for the un-worked holiday and shall be counted as time
worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime pay. Temporary, part-time,
or seasonal employees paid on an hourly basis are excluded from the provisions
of this section unless approved by the Village Board. Work performed on a
holiday shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the straight time
rate in addition to the holiday pay or compensatory time off given at the rate
of one and one-half times the straight time rate in addition to the holiday
pay, at the discretion of the employee with the consent of the mayor. If a
holiday falls on Sunday, such time will be paid at two times the straight rate
for overtime. At no time will compensatory time be allowed until work exceeds
40 hours in any work week.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.38 LEAVE AND ABSENCES.
   (A)   Qualifications. Employees must be on full-time, permanent status and
fulfill a six-month probationary period before any leave benefits are granted.
An employee must work 32 hours or more per week to be considered full-time.
(See the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived for exceptions.)
   (B)   Vacation days.
      (1)   Vacation days are accrued as follows:
 
6 months to 2 years of employment  1 week or 40 hours
3 years to 5 years of employment   2 weeks or 80 hours
6 years to 9 years of employment   3 weeks or 120 hours
10 years to 14 years of employment 4 weeks or 160 hours
15 years and over                  5 weeks or 200 hours
 
      (2)   No employee shall be allowed to accrue more than 40 hours of
vacation per year of employment.
      (3)   If, at the end of any one-year time period, an employee has accrued
more than 40 hours of unused vacation time, that time in excess of the 40-hour
limit shall be forfeited by the employee.
      (4)   At the time of retirement or separation from employment with the
village, the employee will be reimbursed for accrued vacation at the employee’s
regular hourly rate.
   (C)   Sick leave.
      (1)   Permanent, full-time employees shall be entitled to receive pay
during unavoidable absence from duty due to employee’s sickness or accident,
sickness or accident of immediate family member, or medical appointments. Sick
leave is accumulated at the rate of one day of paid leave for every month
worked.
      (2)   A complete month worked by an employee shall include time off such
as vacation, sick leave, approved meeting, and the like. If an employee does
not work a full month or has any unexceused absences, the employee’s sick day
for that month shall be forfeited.
      (3)   Sick leave and sick pay shall not accumulate to more than 240 days.
Any sick days earned over the maximum amount shall be forfeited. An employee
may use up to 240 sick days annually for sick leave. Upon retiring, the
employee may be paid for 120 days or contribute accumulated days toward
retirement.
      (4)   An absence of more than two working days may require a slip from a
physician attesting to the ability of the employee to return to work. The
amount received by personnel entitled to receive payment under the Workers’
Compensation Act shall be deducted from allowed sick pay.
      (5)   Any sick leave currently accrued by employees of the village under
the pre-existing ordinance shall be divided by eight hours for the number of
hours per workday and rounded up to the nearest whole day.
      (6)   Any employees that have accrued sick leave over a maximum of 24
days as required herein and prior to the adoption of this subchapter amending
the method of calculation shall be reimbursed for that sick leave over the
maximum amount. This payment will be per hour under the old method of
calculation, and there will be no rounding up to the nearest whole day for the
time above the maximum 24 days.
   (D)   Funeral leave.
      (1)   An employee may be absent up to three days with pay for attendance
at a funeral of a member of the immediate family or household. IMMEDIATE FAMILY
is defined as spouse, child, parent, brother, sister, grandparent, and
corresponding in-laws. HOUSEHOLD is defined as anyone maintaining a family
relationship living in the employee’s home.
      (2)   An employee may be absent for one day, with pay, to attend the
funeral of a relative outside the immediate family or household. A report of
absence must be completed defining the relationship of the deceased person
prior to approval of funeral leave. When it is necessary to be absent beyond
the amounts in this division (D), accrued sick leave or vacation benefits may
be used.
   (E)   Terminal pay. Employees who leave the service of the village for any
reason shall receive all pay which may be due them with the following
qualifications.
      (1)   Employees shall be paid for unused accrued vacation, sick leave,
and other compensated time in accordance with this subchapter, provided that
the village is notified by the employee of his or her leaving two weeks in
advance or sufficient reason is given in the absence of such notice.
      (2)   An employee who owes any money to the village at the time of his or
her separation shall have his or her final pay applied against the account of
whatever amount may be needed to satisfy it and shall be given a receipt for
the amount credited. Partial settlement of an account by application of final
pay shall not release an employee from any balance remaining due.
      (3)   In case of death of an employee, his or her estate shall be paid
for accrued vacation and regular pay then accrued.
   (F)   Military pay.
      (1)   Any permanent, full-time village employee who is inducted into the
armed forces of the United States for training or service shall be granted a
leave of absence without pay for the duration of such time required for such
purposes, and for a period of 90 calendar days following the period of actual
service. Upon termination of such service, the employee shall have the right to
return to his or her position within said 90 days, provided the position still
exists and the employee is still otherwise qualified. Vacancies resulting from
leave granted under this section shall be filled only on a temporary basis.
      (2)   Permanent full-time employees who are members of regular reserve
components of the armed forces or the National Guard may be granted two weeks’
leave each year for active-duty training. Upon presentation of the proper
evidence, the difference in pay between the employee’s regular pay and the
military pay will be allowed.
   (G)   Leave of absence. Leave of absence without pay may be granted for such
period not to exceed 60 days when the granting of such leave is in the mutual
interests of the village and the employee. Such leave shall require the
approval of the Mayor.
   (H)   Personal days. Full-time employees are allowed two personal days per
year. Personal days cannot be carried over to subsequent years.
   (I)   Jury duty. Employees will be granted leave without pay, less pay
received for the actual jury duty, for the time spent on jury duty. Employees
subpoenaed to court as a witness or as a defendant will qualify for jury duty
benefits. Reports of absence must be completed and supported by acceptable
information to the immediate supervisor for approval of this benefit. All
employees are expected to return to their respective duties each day when
released from jury duty.
   (J)   Unauthorized leave of absence.
      (1)   No employee may be absent from duty without the permission of the
Mayor or working village supervisor. Unauthorized absence shall be sufficient
cause for forfeiture of all rights and privileges earned while employed. An
employee absent for three consecutive working days without notice and without
sufficient reason shall be considered to have resigned.
      (2)   It shall be the employee’s responsibility to monitor the available
time for leave. An employee who has no accumulated time may take time off
without pay after receiving permission from the working village supervisor.
   (K)   Special leave. Employees on special leave for official village
business, improving education, or training, upon authorization by the Village
Board, shall receive regular pay during the period of the leave. It is further
provided that the Board may authorize that necessary expenses be paid by the
village.
   (L)   Traveling expense.
      (1)   Request for travel expenses (including allowed overtime) for
official village business, improving education or training shall be submitted
to the Village Board or Mayor for approval. Each request for overnight stay
shall be in writing indicating the purpose of the trip, location, length of
stay, place, and cost of lodging, and whether overtime pay will be required.
Upon such approval, the Village Clerk shall make payment. All expenses incurred
for official village business, improving education or training shall be
reported within five days upon return to duty, which reports shall be submitted
to the office of the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Mileage paid for driving personal vehicles for official business
will be paid at the same rate as the prevailing state rate.
      (3)   Meals that are not part of the meeting package for special
meetings, or as part of only a partial day of travel, are limited to and will
be reimbursed at a rate of $5 per meal for breakfast, $8 per meal for lunch,
and $14 per meal for supper. If meals are not included as part of the meeting
package, each traveling employee or village officer shall be reimbursed a total
of $27 per full day of travel to be allocated per each meal as desired. The per
diem allowance for meals will be increased $2 per meal or $6 per day for meals
within Cook County and the collar counties. Proper receipts must be submitted
to the Village Clerk.
      (4)   Lodging expenses that are not part of the meeting package will be
limited to and reimbursed at a rate of $85 per night for stays outside of Cook
and the collar counties. Lodging within Cook and the collar counties will be
limited to and reimbursed at a rate of $135 per night. All receipts must be
submitted to the Village Clerk. The village reserves the right to require an
overnight stay.
      (5)   If the properly submitted request to attend meeting form is
received in advance of a regular scheduled Board meeting, the Village Board may
elect to increase or alter the mileage, meal, and lodging amounts contained
herein on a per trip basis.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 33.39 EMPLOYEE HEALTH INSURANCE.
   Only full-time, hourly employees will be eligible for health insurance paid
by the village. Effective, January 1, 2015, the village will no longer provide
health insurance for the employees’ families. Any employee employed and
receiving health insurance benefits prior to that date will be grandfathered
and not be affected by this change in policy. The Village Board reserves the
right to review healthcare policies periodically and make changes as necessary,
with proper notice to employees.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Bidding and contract procedures
   
34.02   Pecuniary interest in contracts; prohibitions
   
34.03   Claims
   
34.04   Service occupation tax
   
34.05   M.R.O. tax
   
34.06   Foreign fire insurance companies
Electric Tax
   
34.20   Tax rate
   
34.21   Tax imposed on
   
34.22   Purposes of tax
   
34.23   Definitions
   
34.24   Filing return
   
34.25   Credit for overpayment
   
34.26   Time limit on recovery of past amounts
Use Tax
   
34.40   Tax imposed
   
34.41   Collected by state
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or
special taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials,
and services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders, or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein, when
the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $10,000, shall be purchased from the
lowest responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive
bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Trustees then holding office.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the village. The village
shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the
public bulletin board in the Village Hall.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful
bidders shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of
the contract by the Board of Trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any
bid deposit required by the Board of Trustees upon failure on his or her part
to enter into a contract within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board of Trustees or by a village employee, in which event, a tabulation of the
bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The village shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to village. The village shall not accept the bid of
a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other
monies due to the village.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in village. The Board of Trustees shall have the
authority to award contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts will be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to the price, the
Board of Trustees shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts
as it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
village.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of $10,000 shall be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers and architects, and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by this village without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials, or services, the Board of
Trustees shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set
forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials, or
services regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The village shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the village would be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 5/8-9-1, and 5/8-9-2
§ 34.02 PECUNIARY INTEREST IN CONTRACTS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No municipal officer shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in
his or her own name or in the name of any other person, association, trust, or
corporation, in any contract, work, or business of the municipality, or in the
sale of any article, whenever the expense, price, and consideration of the
contract, work, or business or sale is paid either from the Treasury or by any
assessment levied by any statute or ordinance. No municipal officer shall be
interested, directly or indirectly, in the purchase of any property which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality.
   (B)   However, any elected or appointed member of the governing body and any
person on a municipal advisory panel or commission may provide materials,
merchandise, property, services, or labor, if:
      (1)   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or cooperative association in which such interested member of the
governing body of the municipality or advisory panel or commission member has
less than a 7.5% share in the ownership;
      (2)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of his or
her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed award of
the contract;
      (3)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the contract,
though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of establishing a
quorum;
      (4)   Such contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office;
      (5)   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest responsible
bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds $1,500, but the contract may be
awarded without bidding if the amount is less than $1,500; and
      (6)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed $25,000.
   (C)   In addition to the exemption described in division (B) above, any
elected or appointed member of the governing body and any person serving on a
municipal advisory panel or commission may provide materials, merchandise,
property, services, or labor if:
      (1)   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the municipality, provided that, in the case of an elected or
appointed member of the governing body, any such interested member shall
abstain from voting;
      (2)   The amount of the contract does not exceed $2,000;
      (3)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed $4,000; and
      (4)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of his or
her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning present for the
purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (D)   A contract for the procurement of public utility services by a
municipality with a public utility company is not barred by this section by one
or more members of the governing body being an officer or employee of the
public utility company or holding interest if no more than 7.5% in the public
utility company, or holding an ownership interest of any size if the
municipality has a population of less than 7,500 and the public utility’s rates
are approved by the State Commerce Commission. An elected or appointed member
of the governing body having such an interest shall be deemed not to have a
prohibited interest under this section.
   (E)   Any officer who violates this section is guilty of a violation of this
code, and in addition thereto, any office held by such person so convicted
shall become vacant and shall be so declared as part of the judgment of the
court.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section, including the restrictions set
forth in divisions (B), (C), and (D) above, shall preclude a contract or
deposit of monies, loans, or other financial services by a municipality with a
local bank or local savings and loan association, regardless of whether a
member or members of the governing body of the municipality are interested in
such bank or savings and loan association as an officer or employee or as a
holder of less than 7.5% of the total ownership interest. A member or members
holding such an interest in such a contract shall not be deemed to be holding a
prohibited interest for purposes of this act. Such interested member or members
of the governing body must publicly state the nature and extent of their
interest during deliberations concerning the proposed award of such a contract,
but shall not participate in any further deliberations concerning the proposed
award. Such interested member or members abstaining from participation in
deliberations and voting under this section may be considered present for
purposes of establishing a quorum. Award of such a contract shall require
approval by a majority vote of those members presently holding office.
Consideration and award of any such contract in which a member or members are
interested may only be made at a regularly scheduled public meeting of the
governing body of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-28) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10
§ 34.03 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the village for goods purchased,
damages, or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance, must be presented on or before
the last Monday of each month to the Village Clerk. All such claims must be in
writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This section does not prohibit the Village Board from
passing on any claims, not previously presented to the Village Clerk, if, in
the opinion of the Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-30)
§ 34.04 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price
of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicepersons either in
the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-5 of
the State Municipal Code.
   (B)   Every supplier or serviceperson required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, approved July 10,
1961, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue, the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-1)
§ 34.05 M.R.O. TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 1%
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this code is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-1 of the
State Municipal Code.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day or each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 3 of an “Act in Relation to a Tax Upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption,” approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from the sales or tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-2)
§ 34.06 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Conformance. All corporations, companies, and associations not
incorporated under the laws of this state, which are engaged in this village,
in effecting or soliciting fire insurance shall pay to the Village Treasurer on
July 15 of each and every year, a sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts of
premiums received by such corporations, associations, or companies, or their
agency/agent(s) for business effected or transacted for fire insurance within
this village for the year preceding July 1. The sum above named shall be as a
tax or license tee upon all such corporation, companies, or associations
transacting said business with village.
   (B)   Required reports. Every person acting as an agent, or otherwise for or
on behalf of any such corporation, company, or association, shall, on or before
July 15 of each and every year, render to the Village Clerk, a full true and
just account, verified by oath, of all the premiums which, during the year
ending on July 1 of each and every year shall have been received by him or her,
or any other person for him or her, on behalf of such corporation, company, or
association, and shall fully and specifically set out in said report, the
amount or amounts received as premiums for fire insurance.
   (C)   Fees. The said agent(s) shall also, at the time of making the above
mentioned report, pay to the Village Treasurer the said sum of 2% upon the
gross receipts of such corporation, company, or association obtained as
premiums, for effecting fire insurance in this village as specified in this
section.
   (D)   Unlawful operation. If such an account be not rendered on or before
the day herein specified for that purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for
the said tax or license fees shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be
unlawful for any such corporation, company, or association to transact any
business of fire insurance in this village until the requirements hereof are
fully complied with, but this provision shall not relieve any company,
corporation, or association from the payment of any such risk that may be taken
in violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3) Penalty, see §
34.99
ELECTRIC TAX
§ 34.20 TAX RATE.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts from such business
originating within the corporation limits of the village; and
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross
receipts therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-1)
§ 34.21 TAX IMPOSED ON.
   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor any shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or
selling electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages be
subject to taxation under the provisions of this section for such transactions
as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, authorized by § 8-11-1 of the State Municipal
Code.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-2)
§ 34.22 PURPOSES OF TAX.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products
or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes, or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 34.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
or for distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling electricity for use or
consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, and for all services
rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credit, services, and property of every kind and
material and for all services rendered therewith, and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product, or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expense whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation, or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person-to-person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities, (whether owned or leased), or both,
to persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons
do not in turn receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished, for a consideration, by such
persons to other persons, for the transmission of messages.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-4)
§ 34.24 FILING RETURN.
   (A)   On or before the last day of every third month, each taxpayer shall
make a like return to the Village Treasurer for a corresponding three-month
period stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis which
the tax is imposed;
      (4)   The amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-6) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.25 CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section, from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-7)
§ 34.26 TIME LIMIT ON RECOVERY OF PAST AMOUNTS.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-8)
USE TAX
§ 34.40 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-6 of the
State Municipal Code upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item
of tangible personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail
from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state
government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use
Tax Act, approved July 14, 1995.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-1)
§ 34.41 COLLECTED BY STATE.
   Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of §§
34.20 through
34.26 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $500 and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-9)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Village Utilities Department
   
50.02   Committee on utilities
   
50.03   Contract for utility services
   
50.04   Liability for charges
   
50.05   Estimated charges
   
50.06   Consumer lists
   
50.07   Meters tested by request; deposit
   
50.08   Inaccurate meter
   
50.09   Water/sewer deposits
   
50.10   Building unit defined
§ 50.01 VILLAGE UTILITIES DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be an executive department of the village, known as the
Utilities Department. It shall include the Water, Sewer, and Gas Committee,
appointed by the Mayor, and its employees. The designated office shall be in
the Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 50.02 COMMITTEE ON UTILITIES.
   The Village Board standing committee on utilities shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Water, Gas, and Sewer Departments. It shall
ascertain the condition and needs thereof, shall from time to time report the
same to the Mayor and Village Board, so that a full understanding thereof shall
be had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of
the Departments.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 50.03 CONTRACT FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules, and regulations contained
in this title shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract with
every person, company, or corporation who is supplied with utility services
from the utility systems and every person, company, or corporation, hereinafter
called a “customer,” who accepts and uses water and sewer services, shall be
held to have consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The utility will endeavor at all
times to provide a regular and interrupted supply of service, but in case the
supply of service shall be interrupted, or irregular, or defective, or fail
from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of employees,
servants, or agents, the utility shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Service continuity not guaranteed. Any customer having a facility,
operation, process, or activity which cannot under any and all conditions
tolerate temporary interruption of gas services shall provide an alternate
source of on-site fuel or heat for utilization during such interruption. The
responsibility for this alternate rests fully with the customer.
   (D)   Using utilities without paying. Any person using utility services from
the village without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking
any water or gas meter or appurtenances, or by-pass the water or gas meter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined a sum as
is provided in §
10.99.
   (E)   Destroying or obstructing property. A person found guilty of defacing,
obstructing, tampering, injuring, or destroying or in any manner limiting the
use of availability of any fixture, meter, or any property of water or gas or
sewer utilities, or erecting signs on the property of the utilities without
permission, shall, upon conviction of such act, be fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (F)   Service obtained by fraud. All contracts for water, gas, and sewer
service must be made in the name of the head of the household, firm, or
corporation using the established spelling of that person’s or firm’s name.
Attempts to obtain service by the use of other names, different spellings, or
by substituting other persons or firms will be considered a subterfuge and
service will be denied. If service has been discontinued because of nonpayment
of bills or any unpaid obligation, and service again has been obtained through
subterfuge, misrepresentation or fraud, that service will be promptly
disconnected and the whole or such part of the advanced payment, as may be
necessary to satisfy the unpaid obligation, shall be retained by the village
and credited to the proper account.
   (G)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the Department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the billing next made shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A MONTH shall be considered as the period of approximately 30
days.
   (H)   Removal of meters. All meters shall remain the property of the
Department and may be removed from the customer’s premises at any time without
notice for the purpose of testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance
of service. Upon discovering of any unlawful act by any customer, his or her
agent or employee, herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other
rules and regulations of the Department, such service shall be disconnected.
   (I)   Payment; penalty. All bills for utility services shall be due and
payable within 15 days of the rendition. If a bill is not paid within 15 days
of the date the bill is presented, a penalty equal to 10% of the current
billing on said bill shall be added thereto. This penalty shall be in addition
to the charge heretofore established for the utility services.
   (J)   Delinquent notice; final notice. If the charges for such services are
not paid within 30 days after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services shall be discontinued without further notice subject to provisions of
state or federal laws relating to public notice requirements and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled.
   (K)   Lien; notice of delinquency. Whenever a bill for sewer service remains
unpaid for 30 days for monthly service after it has been rendered, the Village
Treasurer shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village claims a
lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period
covered by the bill. If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises and the Village Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises if his or her address is known to the Treasurer,
whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of 45 days for a monthly bill
after it has been rendered. The failure of the Village Treasurer to record such
lien or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice
shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned
in the foregoing section.
   (L)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens.
      (2)   Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in the name of the
village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid
45 days in the case of a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
   (M)   Reconnect charge. If a utility service is disconnected to any customer
for nonpayment of a bill, service shall not be recontinued to that customer
until all charges and penalties have been paid, plus a service charge of $5 for
reconnection of each utility service.
   (N)   Resale. No water or gas shall be resold or distributed by the customer
thereof from the village supply to any premises other than that for which
application has been made, and the meter installed, except in cases of
emergency.
   (O)   Disconnect notice. Utility services shall be deemed to have been
supplied to any property connected to a utility system during any month, unless
the consumer prior to the first day of the month has given written notice to
the Village Clerk that service should be disconnected on or prior to the first
day of such month. Upon receipt of such notice, the utility service shall be
disconnected and shall not be resumed until a request for resumption of utility
service shall be made.
   (P)   Village not liable. All connections to the utility systems under the
provisions of this title shall be upon the express conditions that the village,
its agents and employees and officials shall not be liable for damage caused by
reason of breakage of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus, or
appurtenances connected with the utility system, or any part or portion of the
utility system, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions, or renewals.
   (Q)   Returned checks. In the event that any check presented for payment of
utility service is returned not paid to the village (e.g., for insufficient
funds, account closed, and the like), a charge in the amount of $20 for each
check so delivered shall be assessed to help defray the processing costs
incurred by the village. This charge will not preclude the village from
pursuing any other civil or criminal remedies available by law.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-14, 720 ILCS 285/117, and 65 ILCS
5/11-117-12
§ 50.04 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land, or premises receiving utility
services, the occupant of such premises and the user of the services shall be
jointly and severally liable for the payment of the services to such lot,
parcel of land, or premises and all services are rendered to the premises by
the village only on the condition that such owner, occupant, and user shall be
jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 765 ILCS 735/5
§ 50.05 ESTIMATED CHARGES.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or from any cause
fails to properly register the water or gas passing through the same, the
consumer shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding time of the
previous year. If no record of the previous year exists, then it shall be the
duty of the Superintendent to estimate the amount of water or gas consumed
during the time the meter fails to operate and the consumer shall be charged
with such estimated amount.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-3)
§ 50.06 CONSUMER LISTS.
   It is hereby made the Clerk’s duty, or his or her designated representative,
to prepare or cause to be prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises
and properties receiving utility services, showing the name and address of the
occupant, and the owner of the same. The list shall be kept up-to-date, and
shall be corrected from time to time to allow changes in the occupancy or
ownership of any such property or premises.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 50.07 METERS TESTED BY REQUEST; DEPOSIT.
   A customer may request a meter to be tested for accuracy, which test will be
made by a meter shop in accordance with the standard regulations for meter
testing as prescribed by the State Commerce Commission. Each request for the
test of a meter for accuracy shall be accompanied by a deposit of $15. If the
meter so tested shall be found to be accurate within the limits prescribed by
the State Commerce Commission, the deposit shall be retained by the village as
compensation for such test and shipping charges. If the error in registration
is found to be more than that permitted by the Commission, then the cost of the
test and shipping charges shall be borne by the village, and the amount of the
deposit shall be returned to the customer, and the customer’s bill shall be
adjusted in accordance with the result of the test.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-6)
§ 50.08 INACCURATE METER.
   The quantity of water or gas recorded by the meter shall be accepted as
correct by both the customer and the Water or Gas Department, except when the
meter has been found to be registering inaccurately or has ceased to register.
In either case, the meter will be promptly repaired by the Water or Gas
Department, and the quantity of water or gas used will be determined by the
registration of the meter in the same period for the preceding year.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-7)
§ 50.09 WATER/SEWER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Any water customers who rent property or have a contract for deed for
property will deposit the appropriate amount with the Village Water Clerk and
complete an application for water/sewer service before service will be provided
to that property. The deposit amount for commercial properties will be $150.
The deposit amount for residential properties will be $100.
   (B)   Deposits will be held by the Village Water Department for the duration
of the customer’s occupancy of the property for customers who rent. The deposit
will be refunded to the customer at the end of the occupancy, provided there
are no outstanding water bills or other delinquent fees owed to the water
department. Any amount owed to the Water Department will be deducted from the
deposit when the customer vacates the property and closes the account.
   (C)   Customers who have a contract for deed are required to provide a copy
of the contact to the Water Clerk. After a period of two years (24 months) from
the date of the contract, the customer may request a return of the deposit,
provided water bills on the account have been paid, there have been no checks
returned for nonsufficient funds, and no disconnect notices have been issued to
the customer during that two-year period.
   (D)   The accounts of customers with current contacts for deed at the time
of passage of this section may ask for a review of their account two years from
the date of the contract to determine if deposits will be refunded based on
their individual payment history as outlined in division (C) above. These
accounts will be presented to the Board for approval prior to the refund of any
deposit.
   (E)   Owners and occupants of property are jointly responsible for payment
of bills. Owners may be held responsible for any delinquent bills over the
deposit amount if the occupant abandons property without paying outstanding
bills and the deposit does not cover the amount owed.
   (F)   Customers requesting new water or sewer service will be required to
pay the following fees before service can be established. New sewer service is
$300. New water service is $400. If lines must cross a street, there is an
additional fee of $200.
   (G)   Customers who allow temporary guests residing in recreational
vehicles, campers, or other temporary or makeshift housing, upon customer’s
property, whether owned or leased, to utilize the city water and sewer system,
for a period of more than 14 days, shall be subject to turnoff of the water
after written notice has been provided allowing seven days after the notice to
remove such guests and their recreational vehicles, campers, or other such
housing from the premises. After the expiration of the notice period, customers
shall be subject to immediate cutoff without further notice.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-8) (Ord. 2018-1, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 50.10 BUILDING UNIT DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual consumer and
such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one minimum
water and sewer account, according to the number of families or individual
residents residing therein. Hotels, motels, nursing homes, and hospitals are
excluded.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-9)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Deposit of waste prohibited
   
51.004   Sewage in natural outlet
   
51.005   Private system unlawful
   
51.006   Connection to system required
   
51.007   Private sewerage disposal
   
51.008   Maintenance of lateral sewer lines
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.020   Disturbing system unlawful
   
51.021   Installation costs to owner
   
51.022   Separate sewer; exception
   
51.023   Old sewers
   
51.024   Construction by codes
   
51.025   Elevation of building sewer
   
51.026   Downspouts into sewer prohibited
   
51.027   Connection to sewers
   
51.028   Inspection by approving authority
   
51.029   Protection of property
   
51.030   New connection, capacity for
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.045   Discharge prohibited
   
51.046   Stormwater prohibited in sewers
   
51.047   Regulations of specific wastes
   
51.048   Harmful effects of certain materials
   
51.049   Approval of harmful wastes
   
51.050   Interceptors; grease
   
51.051   Flow; equalizing facilities
   
51.052   Control manhole for industrial wastes
   
51.053   Measurements and tests
   
51.054   Special arrangement
   
51.055   Rates based upon volume and character of sewerage
Rate and Rate Discharge
   
51.070   Basis for wastewater service charge
   
51.071   Measurement of flow
   
51.072   Debt service charge
   
51.073   Basic user rate
   
51.074   Nonpayment of utility bills
   
51.075   Computation of surcharge
   
51.076   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
51.077   Bills
   
51.078   Revenues
   
51.079   Accounts and audit
   
51.080   Notice of rates
   
51.081   Protection from damage
   
51.082   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.083   NPDES permit
   
51.084   Unpolluted drainage
   
51.085   Chief Operator
   
51.086   Federal regulations
   
51.087   Pretreatment of sewerage
   
51.088   New sanitary sewerage system construction
   
51.089   User charge reviewed annually
   
51.090   Rejection or reduction of industrial discharges
   
51.091   Annual audit of cost accounting system
   
51.092   Depreciation and replacement
   
51.093   Sewer rates
   
51.094   Tap-in fees
Inspection and Regulation
   
51.105   Laboratory tests; industrial wastes
   
51.106   Standard of measurement
   
51.107   Special agreements
   
51.108   Damaging property
   
51.109   Inspection of properties
   
51.110   Inspection safety rules
   
51.111   Identification required
Industrial Users
   
51.125   Definitions
   
51.126   Industrial users
   
51.127   Letter of intent
   
51.128   Cost to user
   
51.129   Monitoring user
   
51.130   Basis of payment
   
51.131   Cost recovery period
   
51.132   Change in flow rate
   
51.133   Additional cost; grant
   
51.134   Industrial cost; delinquency and lien
   
51.135   Payments to federal government
   
51.136   Retaining amounts for expansion
   
51.137   Investment of funds
   
51.138   Approval of costs
   
51.139   Village Clerk to administer
   
51.140   Audit
   
51.141   Adoption of federal regulations
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose at this chapter to adopt a system of charges to assure
that each recipient at waste treatment services shall pay its proportionate
share of the costs of the operation and maintenance, including routine parts
replacement, or the sewerage treatment works, and to distribute cost of
operation and maintenance of said publicly owned treatment works to the
pollution source or sources and to promote self-sufficiency of treatment works
with respect to operation and maintenance costs, and to establish regulations
to control the types and strengths at sewerage to be treated by the sewerage
treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Board of Trustees of the village, or its duly
authorized agent, deputy, or representative.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen realized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping at a draining
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place at disposal.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine in milligrams per liter which
much be added to sewerage to produce a residual chlorine content, or to meet
the requirements at some other objective, in accordance with procedures set
forth in “Standard Methods.”
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewerage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transient lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments, or places engaged in selling merchandise for personal,
household, or industrial consumption and/or rendering services to others.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat such
pollutants, and in fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. Cost per unit of sewerage for debt retirement.
   DEPRECIATION. The annual reduction in the fair market value of real estate
during its useful life at a standard percentage per year.
   DOMESTIC USER. Includes all dwelling units such as row houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings and single-family dwellings.
Transient lodging considered commercial in nature is not included in this
definition.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale at produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative, and
regulatory activities of federal, state, and local governments, such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, city halls, and similar GOVERNMENTAL
USERS.
   HYDROGEN ION CONCENTRATION. See pH.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined herein.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes manufacturing activities involving the mechanical
or chemical transformation of materials of substance into new products. These
activities occur in establishments usually described as plants, factories, or
mills and characteristically use power driven machines and material handling
equipment. The term INDUSTRIAL USER shall mean any non-governmental user of
publicly owned treatment works identified in the “Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972,” Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under the following divisions: Division A, Agriculture, Forestry
and Fishing; Division B, Mining; Division D, Manufacturing; Division 8,
Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and Sanitary Services; Division
I, Services. A USER in the division listed above may be excluded if it is
determined by the village that such USER will introduce primarily segregated
domestic wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid or liquid-conveyed waste from industrial
manufacturing processes, trades, or businesses, cooling water, discharges from
industrial pretreatment facilities and, on a case by case basis, discharges
from business establishments exceeding normal sanitary needs of employees.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Includes social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions, and similar INSTITUTIONAL USERS.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow at 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by a municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
under § 307a of the Federal Water Pollutant Act Amendments of 1912 (Pub. Law
No. 93-50); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance at an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality at
effluent from that treatment works.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed and used as dwelling units for
occupancy by three or more families, independently of each other.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. The National
System of Issuances permits under § 402 of Federal Water Pollution Act
Amendments of 1912 (Pub. Law No. 92-500) and includes any state or interstate
program that has been approved by the Administrator in whole or in part,
pursuant to § 402 at the above Act.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All costs, direct or indirect (other than debt
service), necessary to ensure the adequate wastewater treatment by the sewerage
treatment works on a continuing basis in a manner which conforms with all
related federal, state, and local requirements to assure optimal long-term
facility management. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE shall include
depreciation and routine parts replacement.
   pH. The logarithm to the base 10 of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter at solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing or food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is controlled by public authority.
   REGULATORY AGENCY. The State Environmental Protection Agency and United
States Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SALVAGE VALUE. Land for treatment works, including land used as part of the
treatment process or for ultimate disposal of residues, shall be assumed to
have a SALVAGE VALUE at the end of the planning period equal to its prevailing
market value at the time of the analysis. Right-of-way easements shall be
considered to have a SALVAGE VALUE not greater than the prevailing market value
at the time of the analysis. Structures will be assumed to have a SALVAGE VALUE
if there is a use for such structures at the end of the planning period. In
this case, SALVAGE VALUE shall be estimated using straight-line depreciation
during the service life of the treatment works. For phased additions of process
equipment and auxiliary equipment, SALVAGE VALUE at the end of the planning
period may be estimated under the same conditions and on the same basis as
described for above structures.
   SANITARY FACILITIES. Consists of all internal plumbing installed for the
sole purpose of discharging water-carried wastes to a disposal source.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewerage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The user charge as defined herein plus the debt service
charge as defined herein. Also defined as the cost per unit of sewerage made up
of the user charge rate plus the debt service rate.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewerage.
   SEWERAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
   SEWERAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewerage.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewerage.
   SEWER LATERAL LINES. A sewer line that extends from the public sewer to the
property owners’ lot, where it connects to the plumbing in the property owners’
house. SEWER LATERAL LINES are used exclusively by the property owner.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewerage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent, or if quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water,
Sewerage, and Industrial Wastes,” published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water
Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewerage and industrial wastes, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the service or user charge which is
levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the
concentration values established as representative of normal sewerage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or in
suspension in water, sewerage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The charge levied on users of the sewerage treatment works for
the cost of operating and maintaining such works. This CHARGE shall apply to
all users whose wastes do not exceed the strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal sewerage.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-2)
§ 51.003 DEPOSIT OF WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable wastes.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-3) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 SEWAGE IN NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
jurisdiction of the village any sewerage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-4) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 PRIVATE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewerage.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-5) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a pubic sanitary or
combined sewer of the village, is hereby required at his or her expense to
connect all sanitary facilities therein existing or new, directly within the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90
days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 200 feet of the property line or within 1,000 feet of the property line
of any commercial or multi-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-6) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 PRIVATE SEWERAGE DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.006, the sanitary facilities shall be connected to a private sewerage
disposal system complying with the regulations promulgated by the State
Environmental Protection Agency regulating sewerage disposal and construction
of private sewerage disposal systems within the limits of the village. No new
private sewage disposal system employing a cesspool or lagoon shall be
constructed and no new replacement building sewer shall be connected to an
existing cesspool or lagoon.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-7) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 MAINTENANCE OF LATERAL SEWER LINES.
   All costs and expenses directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation, connection, and maintenance of a lateral sewer line shall be
borne by the property owner. The property owner shall indemnify the village
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation, connection, and maintenance of a lateral sewer line. This section
shall apply even where the lateral sewer line runs under a public street,
public right-of-way, or public easement.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-8)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.020 DISTURBING SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No person other than as directed by the approving authority shall uncover,
make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public
sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
approving authority and upon payment of all fees and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-9) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 INSTALLATION COSTS TO OWNER.
   All cost and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-10)
§ 51.022 SEPARATE SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; provided, however, that where one building stands at the rear of
another on the same lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed
to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended through a manhole to be
constructed between the buildings to the rear building and the whole considered
as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-11)
§ 51.023 OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the approving authority, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-12)
§ 51.024 CONSTRUCTION BY CODES.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. All private service lines must be extended on minimum grade from
property line to sewer main.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-13) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025 ELEVATION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewerage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-14) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 DOWNSPOUTS INTO SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect roof downspouts, interior or exterior foundation
drains, area-way drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-15) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 CONNECTION TO SEWERS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the village. All such connections shall be made gas-tight
and water-tight. Any deviation from prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the approving authority before installation.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 INSPECTION BY APPROVING AUTHORITY.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the approving
authority when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
approving authority.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-17) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-18) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.030 NEW CONNECTION, CAPACITY FOR.
   No new connections shall be made to the sewerage system unless adequate
capacity, as determined by the approving authority, is available in all
downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewerage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-19) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.045 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-22) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 STORMWATER PROHIBITED IN SEWERS.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the approving authority. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the approving
authority, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-23) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 REGULATIONS OF SPECIFIC WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any sewerage treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewerage treatment plant, including but not limited to
cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the waters as discharged to the public
sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewerage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-24) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 HARMFUL EFFECTS OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the approving authority, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewerage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming this opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the approving authority will give consideration to such factors as to
the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of sewerage treatment
process, capacity of the sewerage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewerage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease, oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor greater than three-
fourths horse power shall be subject to review and approval of the approving
authority;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, picking wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirements, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewerage at the sewerage treatment works exceeds the limits
established by the approving authority for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other wastes or odor-
producing substances, in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the approving authority, as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewerage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of long half life (over 100
days) without special permit. The radioactive isotopes I and p used at
hospitals are not prohibited if properly diluted as the source;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids, including, but
not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, including, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewerage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of low or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs.” Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewerage treatment employed, or are emendable to
treatment only to such degree that the sewerage treatment plant effluent cannot
meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to
the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-25) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 APPROVAL OF HARMFUL WASTES.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.048, and which in the judgment of the approving authority may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewerage works, process equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the approving authority may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
   (C)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
§§
51.054 and
51.055. If the approving authority permits the pretreatment of equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the approving authority, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-26)
§ 51.050 INTERCEPTORS; GREASE.
   Grease traps, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided and maintained in
operating condition when, in the opinion of the approving authority, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients.
All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the approving
authority, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-27) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 FLOW; EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatments or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-28) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 CONTROL MANHOLE FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   When required by the approving authority, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manholes, when required, shall be accessible and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the approving
authority. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-29) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published for the American Public Health Association and
“Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants”
(40 C.F.R. part 136), October 16, 1973, Federal Register, and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at
said control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole
in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-30)
§ 51.054 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial
concern.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-31)
§ 51.055 RATES BASED UPON VOLUME AND CHARACTER OF SEWERAGE.
   In order that the rates and charges may be equitably adjusted to the service
rendered, the village shall have the right to base its charges not only on
volume, but also on the strength and character of the sewerage and wastes which
it is required to treat. The village shall have the right to measure and
determine the strength and content of all sewerage and wastes discharged,
either directly or indirectly, into the village’s sanitary sewerage system, in
such manner and by such method as it may deem practicable in the light of the
conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine the
proper charge.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-32)
RATE AND RATE DISCHARGE
§ 51.070 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge,
and a surcharge, if applicable.
   (B)   (1)   The debt service charge shall be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters and/or sewerage meters for wastes having the following
normal concentrations:
         (a)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 205 mg/l;
and
         (b)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
      (2)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
         (b)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids, and BOD, if possible;
         (c)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS, and pounds of BOD to
be treated;
         (d)   Proportion the estimated costs to non-industrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids, and BOD;
         (e)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
         (f)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (C)   (1)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal concentration for BOD (205 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the 205 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. The procedure to compute a surcharge is as follows. These
calculations are based on the principal that 25% of the cost of operating is
attributable to the removal of BOD and 50% to the removal of SS and 25% to
flow.
Bc= Surcharge on cost per pound of BOD in excess of 205 mg/l
Sc= Surcharge on cost per pound of SS in excess of 250 mg/l
O&M= Operational and maintenance cost of sewage treatment plant
Design average daily flow= 135,000 gallons/day or 0.135 MDG
Bc=  (O&M)25%  = (243,382.01)25%
     BOD          205 mg/l x 8.34 lbs/10 gallons x 0.135 mg/day x 365 day/year
Bc=  11,937.50
     84,245.47
Bc=  0.1417/lb
O&M= Cost of operation of plant + 1/3 Superintendent + depreciation +
     replacement cost + debt service = 47,750
BOD= 205 mg/l   = Normal domestic sewage
Sc=  (O&M)50%   = (47,750)50%
     SS           250 mg/l
Sc=  =          23,875
                250 mg/l x 8.34 lbs/10 gallons x 0.235 hgd x 365 day/year
Sc=  23,875     = 0.2324/lbs SS
     102,738.38
 
      (2)   Base rates will be considered on 50 mg/l increments as per 1,000
gallons. Therefore, the rate for the BOD and SS surcharge will be:
 
50 mg/l x 8.34 lbs/gallon x 0.001 gallon = 0.417 lbs.
Bc= 0.1417/lb. x 0.417 lb. =               0.059 0.06
Sc= 0.2324/lb. x 0.417 lb. =               0.969 0.10
 
      (3)   Therefore, the surcharge for BOD will be $0.06 per 50 mg/l excess
and 1,000 gallon usage, and SS will be $0.10 per 50 mg/l excess and 1,000
gallon usage.
   (D)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs,
including replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-36)
§ 51.071 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and
surcharges shall be metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewer, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (C)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
   (D)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-37) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.072 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   A debt service charge of $0.34 per 1,000 gallons per month to each user of
the wastewater facility of the village is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-38)
§ 51.073 BASIC USER RATE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a basic
user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities
of the village as provided for in §
51.093.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-39)
§ 51.074 NONPAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
   All nonpayment of utility bills will be administered according to the
provisions set forth in §
50.03.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-40)
§ 51.075 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the village and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-41)
§ 51.076 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = CD + (Vu-X) + CS
Where:  
CW=    Amount of wastewater service charge per billing period
CD=    Debt service charge
CH=    Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement
Vu=    Wastewater volume for the billing period
X=     Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
CU=    Basic user rate for operation, maintenance, and replacement
CS=    Amount of surcharges
 
§ 51.077 BILLS.
   The rates of charges for service shall be payable monthly or quarterly
depending on the classification of service for which bills are rendered.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-43)
§ 51.078 REVENUES.
   (A)   (1)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the Sewerage Account of the Sewerage
Fund. All such revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer,
separate and apart from his or her private funds and separate and apart from
all other funds of the village and all of said sum, without any deductions
whatever shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than ten days
after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time
to time be directed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in
the account of the fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of the Village of
Goreville.” Said Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-48)
§ 51.079 ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual
audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system, do in fact
meet these regulations.
      (2)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
         (a)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
         (b)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
         (c)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (d)   Number of users connected to system;
         (e)   Number of non-metered users; and
         (f)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial
users) and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-49)
§ 51.080 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the Village Treasurer, shall
be filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage
system of said village on their properties.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-50)
§ 51.081 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works and/or water works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-51) Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.082 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   Representatives of the approving authority and other duly authorized
employees of the village bearing proper credentials shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-52)
§ 51.083 NPDES PERMIT.
   An NPDES permit shall be acquired by the village, and the sewerage treatment
works and sanitary sewerage system shall be operated and maintained in
accordance with the conditions and terms of said permit at all times.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-53)
§ 51.084 UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge into the sanitary sewerage system any
surface drainage, stormwater, or unpolluted cooling water, and any other
discharge of waters from any storm drain or storm sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-54) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.085 CHIEF OPERATOR.
   A Chief Operator shall be employed by the village at all times to be in
charge of the operation and maintenance of the sewerage treatment works and
sanitary sewage system, and said Operator shall at all times be properly
certified under state and federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-55)
§ 51.086 FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   The federal regulations contained in 40 C.F.R. part 35, as published in the
Federal Register on February 11, 1974, shall be incorporated into and by
reference be made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-56)
§ 51.087 PRETREATMENT OF SEWERAGE.
   (A)   No user shall deposit into the sanitary sewer system of the village
any material which will clog or substantially impede the flow in sanitary
sewer, or impede the operations of the sewerage treatment plant. The user shall
be subject to the enforcement by the village of all existing village sewer
ordinances in effect at all times. The user shall further provide, install, and
maintain screening facilities if required by the village and approved by the
Village Engineer for the removal of solids from its wastes so that such
materials going into the sanitary sewer are maintained at a minimum size level
to prevent undue problems in the sewerage treatment plant of the village. This
screening shall be required, upon finding of the need for such screening by the
village. The user shall install said screens, at its own cost, upon receipt of
written notice by the village to the user.
   (B)   Whenever the waste from any user is found to interfere with the
aerobic processes of the sewerage treatment plant of the village, written
notice shall be given by the village to the user, and the user shall be
required to construct a waste treatment system and to pretreat all waste before
it is discharged into the village sanitary sewer system. Pretreatment shall be
sufficient to reduce the strength or characteristics of the wastes to such a
degree that it will not interfere with the aerobic processes of the sewerage
treatment plant of the village. Such notice shall be served upon the user and
shall set forth a date and time for compliance with this section.
   (C)   It shall be a prima facie case that a waste interference with the
aerobic processes of the sewerage treatment plant exist if the waste contains
acidity below pH 4.4, or the waste contains alkalinity of above pH 9.5, or any
grab samples taken at any time of any day has materials or constituents
immediately noticeable that are detrimental to the aerobic processes existing
in the sewage treatment plant as determined by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Plans, specifications, and design data for such pretreatment
facilities shall be submitted to and approved by the Village Engineer and by
the Environmental Protection Agency of the state before any construction work
on the pretreatment system is begun. Construction, maintenance, and operation
of said pretreatment facilities shall be the sole responsibility of the user,
and shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating
condition by the user at its expense.
   (E)   The pretreatment standards as published in the Federal Register on
November 8, 1913, and all amendments thereto, are incorporated and by reference
made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-57) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 NEW SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION.
   Any new sewer construction or sanitary sewerage system construction
tributary to and with final discharge into the sewerage treatment plant shall
be limited solely to sanitary sewers constructed under and approved by the
terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-58)
§ 51.089 USER CHARGE REVIEWED ANNUALLY.
   The user charges provided herein shall be reviewed annually and revised
periodically to reflect actual treatment works operation and maintenance costs,
and to assure that the user charge system will generate sufficient revenue to
offset the costs of all treatment works operation and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-59)
§ 51.090 REJECTION OR REDUCTION OF INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES.
   The approving authority is hereby authorized to reject or reduce industrial
discharges in emergencies in order to meet the requirements of the NPDES permit
and is further authorized to reject any new sewerage service connections when
the total capacity of the sewerage system is exceeded and no longer capable of
proper treatment of sewerage which would be placed into the sewerage treatment
system as a result of said connections.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-60)
§ 51.091 ANNUAL AUDIT OF COST ACCOUNTING SYSTEM.
   (A)   An audit of the sewerage treatment works’ cost accounting system shall
be conducted on an annual basis by a qualified and licensed certified public
accountant.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-61)
   (B)   The village shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
accurate and detailed books, records, and accounts of said village in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of the cost of operation,
maintenance, depreciation, and routine parts replacement relating to the
sewerage treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-62)
§ 51.092 DEPRECIATION AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The sewerage treatment works will be depreciated upon a straight line
basis with a useful life of 30 years with a salvage value established under the
definition contained herein
   (B)   All personal property shall be depreciated upon the basis of a useful
life of 30 years, and a replacement value at the end of said useful life of
100% of its existing fair market value when purchased and installed as a part
of the total sewerage treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-63)
§ 51.093 SEWER RATES.
   The monthly charge for sewer service shall be as follows:
   (A)   First 1,000 gallons: $8.50;
   (B)   All over 1,000 gallons: $3.75 per 1,000 gallons; and
   (C)   Minimum charge per month shall be $8.50.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-11)
§ 51.094 TAP-IN FEES.
   For all sewer connections to sewer mains built prior to January 1, 1975, the
applicant shall pay the cost of the time and materials, plus an additional 10%
necessary to make the tap-in. A minimum deposit of $125 is required prior to
the installation.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-15)
INSPECTION AND REGULATION
§ 51.105 LABORATORY TESTS; INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by outside laboratory service.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-65)
§ 51.106 STANDARD OF MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples).
(Prior Code, § 38-4-66)
§ 51.107 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with § 51.080, hereof, by the industrial concern, provided such
payments are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge
system and industrial cost recovery system.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-67)
§ 51.108 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-68) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.109 INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES.
   The Mayor and other duly authorized employees of the village, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Mayor or his
or her representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-69)
§ 51.110 INSPECTION SAFETY RULES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.109, the Mayor or duly authorized employees of the Protection Agency shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village
employees, and the village shall indemnity the company against loss or damage
to its property by Village employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
Article IV, Section 9.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-70)
§ 51.111 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Mayor and other duly authorized employees of the village bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this code except §§
51.070 through
51.094 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-71)
INDUSTRIAL USERS.
§ 51.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD. See §
51.002.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY. Recovery by the village from all industrial users
of the village’s sewerage treatment works of the amount of all federal grant
monies expended on such sewerage treatment works subsequent to January 1, 1980
allocable to the treatment of sewerage wastes from such industrial users.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY PERIOD. The period during which the grant monies
allocable to the treatment of wastes from industrial users is recovered from
the industrial users of such sewerage treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. (See § 51.002.) A user in the divisions listed in §
51.002 may be excluded if it is determined by the village that such user will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. See §
51.002.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. All sewerage users except those defined as “industrial
users” herein.
   REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. The Regional Administrator of the United States
Federal Environmental Protection Agency, Chicago, Illinois.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewerage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water sewerage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-72)
§ 51.126 INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   All industrial users shall pay that portion of all state grant amounts
expended upon the village’s sewerage treatment works subsequent to January 1,
1980, allocable to the treatment of their sewerage wastes, based upon the
following formula. Industrial cost recovery amounts based on each individual
contributor’s flow, BOD, and SS, as compared to the design load of flow, BOD,
and SS. Each industrial contributor would then pay the federal grant amount
allocated to each flow, BOD, and SS according to the contributor’s percent of
the design load, e.g.:
Where:
(a)    % federal grant – flow = $ ____ (sewage treatment plant)
(b)    % federal grant – BOD = $____
(c)    % federal grant – SS = $____
(d)    Design flow – 0.135 mgd
(e)    Design BOD load = 231 lbs./day
(f)    Design SS load = 2,001 lbs./day
(g)    Useful life = 30 years
Then:
       Amount contributed for flow - (a/dzg) = cost/year/gallon;
       Amount contributed for BOD - (b/exg) = cost/year/lb. BOD; and
       Amount contributed for SS - (c/txg) = cost/year/lb. SS.
 
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall maintain the necessary records for
determination of user share of the cost and shall provide the billing and
collection services as required by division (A) above.
   (C)   The Village Treasurer shall be responsible for the investment and
expenditure of all monies collected for industrial cost recovery.
   (D)   The village shall maintain a program of monitoring industrial user
discharges as the village deems necessary, provided that any major contributing
industry shall be monitored no less than 12 times annually, and any industrial
user that has a population equivalent greater than or equal to 50 shall be
monitored no less than once annually. All other industrial users shall be
monitored at such frequency as deemed necessary by the village for
determination of the population equivalent of the industrial user. The
monitoring data collected shall be used to determine the population equivalent.
   (E)   The rates and charges for services shall be payable monthly or
quarterly depending on the classification of services for which bills are
rendered.
   (F)   The State Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records
of the village which are applicable to the village system of user charges of
industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-73)
§ 51.127 LETTER OF INTENT.
   Before industrial waste will be considered for treatment, each industrial
user will execute a signed letter of intent to the village, stating that said
industrial user will pay that portion of any state grant monies allocable to
the treatment of its wastes. Each such letter shall also contain a statement of
the industrial user’s intended period of use of the sewerage treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-74)
§ 51.128 COST TO USER.
   The industrial user’s cost for treatment of its wastes shall be based upon
all factors which significantly affect the cost of the treatment works
including strength, volume, and flow characteristics of the sewerage as defined
and set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-75)
§ 51.129 MONITORING USER.
   The approving authority shall maintain a program of monitoring industrial
user discharges at such frequency as deemed necessary by the approving
authority for determination of the waste load of the industrial user. The
monitoring data collected shall be used to determine the waste load in
accordance with § 51.126.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-76)
§ 51.130 BASIS OF PAYMENT.
   During the industrial cost recovery period defined herein, each industrial
user of the sewerage treatment works shall pay its share of the total grant
monies expended divided by the recovery period years. Such payments shall be
made on an annual basis for each industrial user. The first payment by an
industrial user shall be made no later than one year after such user begins use
of the sewerage treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-77)
§ 51.131 COST RECOVERY PERIOD.
   The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to the useful life of the
treatment works, which shall be 30 years from 1980.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-78)
§ 51.132 CHANGE IN FLOW RATE.
   If there is a substantial change in the strength, volume, or delivery flow
rate characteristics introduced into the sewerage treatment works by an
industrial user, such user’s share, as set forth herein, shall be adjusted
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-79)
§ 51.133 ADDITIONAL COST; GRANT.
   (A)   If there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works utilizing
a state grant, each existing industrial user’s share shall be adjusted
accordingly.
   (B)   An industrial user’s portion of any state grant shall include
allowance for the cost of any firm commitment to the village for an increased
use by such user.
   (C)   An industrial user’s share as set forth herein shall not include any
portion of the grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved sewerage
treatment works capacity and an industrial user’s share shall not include any
interest component as a part of said charge.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-80)
§ 51.134 INDUSTRIAL COST; DELINQUENCY AND LIEN.
   (A)   In the event the charges for industrial cost recovery are not paid
within 60 days after the rendition of that bill, then such service charges
shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter, such
delinquent charge shall constitute a lien upon the real estate for which such
sewer services were supplied.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed each quarter to
file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the office of the Recorder
of Deeds of the county, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed
notice of a lien for the payment of such charges for sewer service. If the
delinquency in the payment of the recovery cost continues for a period of more
than 120 days, the sewer service shall be discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-81)
§ 51.135 PAYMENTS TO FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
   The village shall retain 50% of the amounts recovered from industrial users.
The remainder, together with any interest earned thereon, shall be returned to
the United States Treasury through the Federal Environmental Protection Agency
on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-82)
§ 51.136 RETAINING AMOUNTS FOR EXPANSION.
   A minimum of 80% of the retained amounts described in §
51.135, together with interest earned thereon, shall be used by the village
solely for the cost, determined to be eligible by the Regional Administrator of
the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, of the expansion or reconstruction
of treatment works. The village shall obtain the written approval of the
Regional Administrator prior to commitment of the retained amounts for any
expansion or reconstruction. The remainder (20%) of the retained amounts may be
used by the village as it sees fit.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-83)
§ 51.137 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Pending use of the retained amounts, the village shall invest the same for
reconstruction and expansion in:
   (A)   Obligations of the United States Government;
   (B)   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United
States Government, or any agency thereof; and
   (C)   Accounts fully collateralized or obligations of the United States
Government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by
the United States Government or any agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-84)
§ 51.138 APPROVAL OF COSTS.
   The industrial cost recovery system contained in this subchapter shall be
subject at all times to the approval of the Regional Administrator and its
establishment and operation shall be a condition of obtaining any federal grant
monies, and shall also become a condition of such grant under the conditions
set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 30.404.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-85)
§ 51.139 VILLAGE CLERK TO ADMINISTER.
   The industrial cost recovery system provided herein shall be administered by
the Village Clerk with the approval and advice of the Village Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-86)
§ 51.140 AUDIT.
   An audit of the industrial cost recovery system shall be conducted on an
annual basis by a qualified and licensed certified public accountant.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-87)
§ 51.141 ADOPTION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   The federal regulations contained in 40 C.F.R. §§ 34.900 through 35.955, as
published in the Federal Register on August 21, 1973, shall be incorporated
into and by reference be made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-88)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provisions other than those contained
in §
51.080 shall be served by the village with written notice, stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for this section, or any person who shall violate any provision of §
51.080 shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each
day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this code shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage caused to the
village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-64)
   (C)   Any person violating §
51.108 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-68)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Application for taps and service connections to waterworks system
   
52.02   Cost of tap and water service connections
   
52.03   All services to be by meter
   
52.04   Plumbing Code adopted
   
52.05   Meters to be open to inspection
   
52.06   Meter damaged
   
52.07   Village not liable for interruption of supply
   
52.08   Maintenance of water lines
   
52.09   Cross-connections
   
52.10   Inspection
   
52.11   Dangerous usage
   
52.12   Electric ground wires
   
52.13   Shortage and purity of supply
   
52.14   Non-compliance with rules
   
52.15   Fire hydrants
   
52.16   Rules to become part of contract
   
52.17   Water rates
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the waterworks
system of the village shall file a written application at the Village Hall,
signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is
desired, or by the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall
be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the cost
of such service connection and meter. In the event such application is made by
an agent for the owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the
written authority of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-1)
§ 52.02 COST OF TAP AND WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For all regular three-quarter inch taps and service connections, the
applicant shall pay the cost of time and materials, plus an additional 10%
necessary to make the tap-in. A minimum deposit of $175 is required prior to
installation.
   (B)   All water taps and service connections made to the mains of the
waterworks system of the village shall conform to the regulations and standards
of the Village Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-2)
§ 52.03 ALL SERVICES TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial, or industrial use,
shall be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the
same accessible at all times from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a
building shall be set in a suitable meter box approved by the village. Water
will not be turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed
and all other requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner
have been fully complied with.
(Prior Code, 38-5-3)
§ 52.04 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Plumbing Code, 1986 Edition and all subsequent amendments thereto,
published by the State Department of Public Health, is hereby adopted by
reference pursuant to authority of the Illinois Revised Statutes; provided,
that if any of the provisions of the State Plumbing Code are in conflict with
state law or any ordinance of the village, the state law or ordinance shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-4) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 METERS TO BE OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   All water meters and water fixtures, connections, and appurtenances on
private property connected with the waterworks system of the village shall be
open to the inspection of the proper officers of the village at all reasonable
hours.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-5)
§ 52.06 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus, or for any
other cause within the control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the
village for the actual cost of the removal, repairing, and replacing of the
damaged meter and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated
basis to cover such period as it appears that the meter was out of order for
such damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-6)
§ 52.07 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to shut off the supply of water
whenever it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules, or for
any operational reason. In all cases, if possible, reasonable notice will be
given to consumers as circumstances allow, but in emergencies, the water may be
shut off without notice. All hot water faucets shall be left open during any
shut-off to prevent damage to plumbing. Such necessary work will be done as
rapidly as may be practical and whenever feasible at such times as will cause
the least inconvenience. The village shall not be held responsible for or
liable because of any shutoff of supply for any direct or resultant damages to
any person, company, or consumer or to any pipe, fixtures, or plumbing.
   (B)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants, or other industrial
use will not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but only to tanks
holding ample reserve supply. Should any equipment be supplied direct from
mains, then in case of any shut-off of water, the village will not be held
responsible or liable for any direct or resulting damage because of interrupted
supply, insufficient pressure, or otherwise. Whenever water mains, pipes, and
service connections are taken up, shut off, or interfered with by any reason of
any village street improvements, the village will endeavor to maintain service
so far as reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable
for any interruption, poor pressure, or damage of any kind either to consumers,
adjacent to or other consumers affected thereby.
   (C)   The village expressly stipulates with all its consumers and other
persons that it will not insure or be responsible or liable in any manner for
any losses or damages, direct or resultant by reason of any fire, and all water
service furnished shall always be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable
accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war, or any other cause not within the
reasonable control of the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-7)
§ 52.08 MAINTENANCE OF WATER LINES.
   The village shall replace all water mains when it has been deemed necessary
to do so in order to maintain service in the village. The village shall limit
its responsibility to maintaining water lines to the water mains and not to the
service lines. The property owner shall be responsible for the service line
from the water meter into premises served.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-7A)
§ 52.09 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. That, if in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the State
Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency, and all applicable local
regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
upon installation and as required by the State Environmental Protection Agency
and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established, or maintain or permit to be maintained, any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village enters the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two years, or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary.
Records of such surveys shall be maintained and be available for review for a
period of at least five years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he
or she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   (1)   The Superintendent of Water of the village is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof,
the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and
until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the village.
      (2)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the State
Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that,
in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the State
Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenue which
may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this section, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to assure that all
water connections in the village comply with the village’s “Regulations on
Cross-Connection Control,” a copy of which is on file at the Village Hall.
   (G)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-8) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 INSPECTION.
   The village shall have access to all portions of the premises of the
consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of water, and the
consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing, and any other apparatus, in any manner
connected to the water system of the village. The village shall have the right
and option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any repair,
change, removal, or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing, or other
apparatus that would in any manner affect the water supply or system of the
village of the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-9)
§ 52.11 DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The village shall have the right to refuse water service or to discontinue
water service, without notice at any time to any consumer if the village finds
any apparatus or appliances that the operation of which will be detrimental to
the water system of the village, or to any or all of its consumers. Standpipes,
hydrants, gate valves, and any other apparatus that cause water to hammer or
any danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing shall be
immediately repaired or removed upon notice from the village, or at its option,
the village may immediately discontinue the service, without notice and without
any liability for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-10)
§ 52.12 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire to any
plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water service
pipe, water meter, or water main belonging to the village. The village will
hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable for any damage to the
property, or injury to the employees of the village caused by such ground wire.
All owners and consumers shall remove any existing ground wires immediately
upon written notice from the village. If not so disconnected after five days’
written notice, the village, through its officials, may enter the property and
remove such ground wires and the consumer shall pay all costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-11)
§ 52.13 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The village shall not be held responsible for, or in any manner liable to
any person, company, consumer, or public body, for any claim or damage, either
direct or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shut-off of
water supply for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s
or village’s mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water
supply, or any fire or water damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-12)
§ 52.14 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   If any consumer fails to comply fully with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the village shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the
consumer does not remedy same, as the rules provide, and within a reasonable
time, the village shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in cases
of nonpayment, emergency, necessity, or as otherwise provided, the village will
not discontinue service for violation of any rules until five days after notice
has been given and violation has not been remedied.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-13)
§ 52.15 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants shall be owned, maintained, and used only by the village.
Use of water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon
permission by the village, after approved application to the village.
   (B)   The village shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside the
village limits, or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom, or any
damages either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure, or
amount of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants outside of any village limits owned by the
village will be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but the
village will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their
condition, use, or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only for the
purpose of extinguishing fire, except when the village may issue a special
permit for their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for the
hydrants and the use of water from them.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-14)
§ 52.16 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water plant and the consumption of water shall be adopted, and the same shall
become a part of the contract with every water consumer and every water
consumer shall be considered to take water from the village, subject thereto
and bound thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-15)
§ 52.17 WATER RATES.
   The following monthly charges shall prevail for water consumption for
customers supplied through a meter installed by or approved by the village:
   (A)   First 1,000 gallons: $6.50;
   (B)   Next 17,500 gallons: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons;
   (C)   Over 20,000 gallons: $1.40 per 1,000 gallons; and
   (D)   Minimum charge per month shall be $6.50.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-12)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of the State Plumbing Code,
adopted by §
52.04, or any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon conviction
therefor, be punished by a fine of not less than $3, nor more than $200. Each
day any violation of any provision of such Plumbing Code or the provisions of
this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-4)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   MOVING REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Obedience to police officers
   
70.02   Scene of fire
   
70.03   Signs and signals
   
70.04   Unauthorized signs
   
70.05   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.06   Advertising signs
   
70.07   Animals or bicycles
   
70.08   Exemptions
   
70.09   State Vehicle Code; equipment of vehicles adopted
   
70.10   Excessive noise
   
70.11   Muffler
   
70.12   Definitions
Towing and Impounding Vehicles Involved in Crimes
   
70.25   Definitions
   
70.26   Motor vehicle impoundment
   
70.27   Violations authorizing impoundment
   
70.28   Towing and impoundment
   
70.29   Administrative hearing
   
70.30   Disposition of impounded motor vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, or uniformed adult school
crossing guard invested by law with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203
§ 70.02 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 70.03 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on
the direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by
direction of the governing body shall conform to the “State Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.”
(Prior Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any street
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement
of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign
or signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising. No tree, bush, or foliage of any kind shall be so
placed, maintained, allowed to remain, or displayed upon either public or
private property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the
movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic control devices, sign,
or signal. All such unauthorized devices are hereby declared to be nuisances
and may be removed by any police officer or under his or her direction and
supervision.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move, or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the village any sign, signal,
marking, or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the
Village Board or the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or railroad sign or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic control device. It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in
view of any street or highway any flashing or rotating beacon of light.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-7)
§ 70.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of vehicles
shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver, when approaching, shall slow
down as necessary for safety, but may proceed cautiously past a red or stop
sign or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall
stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal. No driver of any authorized
emergency vehicle shall assume any special privileges, except when such vehicle
is operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an
actual or suspected violator of the law. The provisions of this title
regulating the movement or vehicles while actually engaged in installing,
repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street pavements.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-8)
§ 70.09 STATE VEHICLE CODE; EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, Ill. Rev. Stat. Chapter 12, entitled, “Equipment of
Vehicles,” as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly is
hereby adopted by the village, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village, except for the following omissions:
last sentence of 205, beginning with “the” and ending with “act,” 406, 605,
701, the last paragraph beginning with the word “any,” and ending with the word
“offense.”
(Prior Code, § 24-5-1)
§ 70.10 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   Stopped vehicle. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor
vehicle is stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears
of the vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an unreasonable loud or excessive
noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-2)
   (B)   Wheels. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle
is stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral
and, while so accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a
forward or reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonable loud noise with
the rear wheels of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-3)
   (C)   Squealing tires. No operator of a motor vehicle shall accelerate the
engine thereof when shifting the gears of such vehicle in such a manner as to
cause the rear wheels of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an
unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-4)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition, and the use of a
cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms and phrases used in this title shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in 625 ILCS.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-1)
TOWING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES INVOLVED IN CRIMES
§ 70.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER. An officer who is an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state for a minimum of three years.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which the Village Hall is open to the public.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any substance as defined and included in the schedules
of Article II of the Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq., and
cannabis as defined in the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
   DRIVING A VEHICLE BY A PERSON SUBJECT TO A WARRANT. Operation or use of a
motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant had been issued in the state
for failing to answer charges that the driver violated §§ 6-101, 6-303, or 11-
501 of the State Vehicle Code.
   DRIVING ON AN EXPIRED LICENSE. Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an
expired license, in violation of § 6/6-101 of the State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS
5/6-101, if the period of expiration is greater than one year.
   DRIVING ON A SUSPENDED OR REVOKED LICENSE. Any offenses as defined in § 5/6-
303 of the State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
   DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL, DRUGS, AND/OR INTOXICATING
COMPOUNDS. Any offense as defined in § 5/11-501 of the State Vehicle Code, 625
ILCS 5/11-501.
   DRIVING WITHOUT A LICENSE OR PERMIT. Operation or use of a motor vehicle
without ever having been issued a license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of
the State Vehicle Code or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a license or permit due to a person’s age.
   FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE A POLICE OFFICER. Any offenses as defined in
§§ 5/11-204 or 11-204.1 of the State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-204 and 204.1.
   LEAVING THE SCENE OF A PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE ACCIDENT. Any
offenses as defined in §§ 5/11-40, 5/11-402, and 5/11-403 of the State Vehicle
Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-401 and 403.
   LEVEL ONE ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. Two hundred dollars.
   LEVEL TWO ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. One hundred dollars.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any misdemeanor offense as defined by state statute.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
   OWNER OF RECORD/INTERESTED PERSON. The recorded title holder(s) or
lienholder(s) of the motor vehicle as registered with the Secretary of State,
or if not registered in the state, the state where the vehicle is registered.
   PRELIMINARY HEARING OFFICER. The Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police,
or police officer.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any offense in violation of Article 16 of the Criminal Code,
720 ILCS.
   TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any offense as defined by the State Vehicle Code.
   WEAPONS OFFENSE. Any of the following offenses contained within Article 24
of 720 ILCS: 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 24-1.1, 24-1.2, 24-1.25, 24-1.5, 24-1.6, 24-2.1,
24-2.2, 24-3, 24-3.1, 24-3.2, 24-3.3, 24-3.4, 24-3.5, 24-3.6, and 24-3A.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 70.26 MOTOR VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT.
   The village (the “municipality”) shall follow the procedures set forth
herein when impounding vehicles and shall impose reasonable administrative
fees, payable to and collected by the village, related to its administrative
and processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest, and detention
of an offender, or removal, impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle.
The administrative fees imposed herein by the village shall be uniform for all
similarly situated vehicles and are in addition to any other penalties or fees
that may be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations, or by a
person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 70.27 VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the expressed or implied permission
of the owner of record/interested person, that is used in connection with the
following violations shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the
village, and the owner of record of said motor vehicle or its agent, shall be
liable to the village for a level one administrative fee, in addition to any
fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle and any other criminal penalties
assessed by a court of law:
      (1)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, on in the
attempt to commit an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of the state;
      (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, any
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the State Vehicle Code;
      (3)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of a felony offense of the Cannabis
Control Act;
      (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the State Controlled Substance
Act;
      (5)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony offense in violation of §§ 24-1 (unlawful use of a
weapon), 24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm), or 24.3 (unlawful possession
of firearms and firearm ammunition) of the Criminal Code of the state;
      (6)   Driving while driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of the State Vehicle
Code; or
      (7)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, or attempting
to solicit a controlled substance, as defined by the State Controlled Substance
Act;
      (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit a felony offense in violation of Article 16 (theft offenses)
of the Criminal Code of the state; or
      (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other felony offenses in violation of the Criminal or
Vehicle Codes of the state.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the expressed or implied permission
of the owner of record/interested person that is used in connection with the
following violation, including arrest warrants, shall be liable to the village
for a level two administrative fee, in addition to any fees for the towing and
storage of the vehicle and any other criminal penalties assessed by a court of
law for the underlying offense as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or
attempt to commit, a misdemeanor violation of the Cannabis Control Act;
      (2)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit a misdemeanor offense in violation of Article 16 (theft
offenses) of the Criminal Code of the state;
      (3)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit any other misdemeanor offense in violation of the Criminal or
Vehicle Codes of the state; or
      (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license, in violation of § 6-101 of the State Vehicle Code if the period of
expiration is greater than one year.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 70.28 TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to towing and impoundment pursuant to this subchapter, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility
controlled or approved by the village. This section shall not apply if the
motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and the theft was
reported to the appropriate police authorities.
   (B)   The village shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the
owner of record/interested person or any person who is found to be in control
of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation that the vehicle has
been towed and impounded, and the owner’s rights to an administrative hearing
under this section.
   (C)   The village shall also provide a notice that the vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner
of record/interested person of the vehicle posts with the village a bond equal
to the administrative fees provided by this section and pays for all towing and
storage fees.
   (D)   Whenever the owner of record/interested person has a vehicle impounded
pursuant to this section, he or she may request a preliminary hearing on the
probable cause, within 12 hours, in writing and hand deliver the request to the
Police Department. A preliminary officer will conduct the preliminary hearing
within 72 hours of the impoundment, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
The owner of record/interested person at the time of the alleged offense shall
be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the preliminary hearing. The
formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence
shall be admissible. If, after the hearing, the preliminary hearing officer
determines that there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used in
the commission of any crime described as a level one or level two
administrative fee offense, the preliminary hearing officer shall order the
continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section unless the
owner of record/interested person, posts with the village a cash bond in the
amount of the level one or level two administrative fee offense, plus fees for
towing and storing the vehicle. If the preliminary hearing officer determines
that there is no such probable cause, the vehicle will be returned without
penalty or other fees.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 70.29 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   Within ten days after a motor vehicle is impounded pursuant to this
section, the village shall send notification, by personal service or by first
class mail, to the owner of record/interested person. The notification will
include a summons for that person to appear before the administrative hearing
officer and include the date, time, and location of an administrative hearing
if they choose to challenge whether a violation of this section has occurred.
The owner of record/interested person shall also be notified of the continued
impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section unless the owner of
record/interested person posts, with the village, a cash bond in the amount of
the level one or level two administrative fee offense, plus fees for towing and
storage of the vehicle. The hearing date must be scheduled and convened not
less that 30 nor more than 40 days after the violation is reported. The owner
of record/interested person and any other interested person(s) shall be given
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence
shall not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   (B)   After the hearing, if the administrative hearing officer determines by
a preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in violation of
the section, then the administrative hearing officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of record of the vehicle liable to the village for the
applicable administrative fee.
   (C)   After the hearing, if the administrative hearing officer does not
determine by a preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in
such a violation, the administrative hearing officer shall enter an order
finding for the owner and the return of the motor vehicle and the
administrative fees if they have already been paid.
   (D)   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, he or she shall
be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing. If the owner of record/
interested person pays such administrative fee and the motor vehicle is
returned to the owner of record/interested person, no default order need be
entered if the owner of record/interested person was informed of his or her
right to a hearing, in which case an order of liability shall be deemed to have
been made when the village receives the written waiver.
   (E)   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the Police Department, the motor vehicle shall be released to the
owner of record/interested person. The owner of record/interested person shall
still be liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
   (F)   If an administrative fee is imposed for a violation of this section,
the bond will be forfeited to the village; however, if a violation of this
section is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this
section shall be held by the village until the administrative hearing officer
issues a decision, or in the case of a judicial review, until the court of
jurisdiction issues its order.
   (G)   All decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be subject
to review under the provisions of the State Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 70.30 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this section shall
constitute a debt due and owed to the village.
   (B)   A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall remain
impounded until:
      (1)   The administrative fee is paid to the village and all applicable
towing fees are paid to the towing agent; in which case the owner of record/
interested person shall be given possession of the motor vehicle; and/or
      (2)   A bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the Police Department and all applicable towing fees are paid to
the towing agent, at which time the motor vehicle will be released to the owner
of record/interested person.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed and retrieved from the
facility controlled or approved by the village within 35 days after the
administrative hearing officer issues a written decision shall be deemed
abandoned and may be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Article
II of Chapter 4 of the State Vehicle Code;
   (D)   (1)   The administrative fee imposed by the village for an impounded
vehicle shall be in addition to any fees charged for the towing and storage, or
both, of an impounded vehicle. The towing or storage, or both, of an impounded
vehicle. The towing/storage fees shall be collected by and paid to the person,
firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
      (2)   The towing and/or storage company shall be entitled to receive a
fee from the owner of record/interested person entitled to possession of any
vehicle prior to the release of the vehicle. The fee shall be to cover the cost
of removing said vehicle and, in addition, any fees for the cost of storage of
the vehicle for each day of fraction thereof that said vehicle remained at
their storage facility in compliance with their practices.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession of
the vehicle to obtain documentation issued by tire police department confirming
compliance with the foregoing requirements and to retain photocopies of the
documentation in their files for a period of not less than 12 months following
the release of said vehicle. The towing/storage company shall make the
foregoing information available for inspection by and provide copies to village
authorities upon their request. The towing or storage is prohibited from
releasing any vehicle without obtaining the above noted documentation.
   (F)   The administrative fees established by this section are to be paid by
the owner of record/interested person, or their agent, of the vehicle involved
in the incident leading to custodial arrest regardless of whether that person
was operating the vehicle at die time of the incident. Vehicles towed by the
Police Department for any reason other than those listed above shall be
released to the owner of record/interested person with no administrative fee
charged by the village. The person purporting to be the owner of record/
interested person, or the agents of the owner of record/interested person, must
present proof of ownership, current proof of insurance, and possess a valid
driver’s license prior to release.
   (G)   Upon verifiable proof that the vehicle used in the violation was
stolen at the time it was impounded, or if the vehicle was operating as a
common carrier, including, but not limited to, taxicabs or buses, and the
violation occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the
vehicle, the administrative fees shall be waived by the village.
   (H)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any administrative
fee imposed under this section which remain unpaid in whole or in part after
the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgement
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. This section incorporates §§ 4/
201 through 4/214.1 of the State Vehicle Code to the extent they are
consistent. Where a provision of this section differs from §§ 4/201 through 4/
214.1 of the State Vehicle Code, the provisions of this section shall be
controlling. Enforcement and administration of this section shall be consistent
with the policies and procedures of §§ 4/201 through 4/215 of the State Vehicle
Code to the extent that said policies and procedures do not directly conflict
with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this title
shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-3)
   (B)   Any person arrested for a violation of any provisions of this title
shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-4)
   (C)   The fact that an automobile which is illegally operated or parked is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5)
CHAPTER 71: MOVING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Reckless, negligent, or careless driving
   
71.02   Excessive noise while driving
   
71.03   Driving rules
   
71.04   State Vehicle Code; rules of the road adopted
   
71.05   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.06   Speed restrictions
   
71.07   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.08   No left turn
   
71.09   Fire Department vehicles
   
71.10   Drag racing
   
71.11   Alcohol in motor vehicles
   
71.12   Special speed limit while passing schools
   
71.13   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.14   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.15   Riding on running boards
   
71.16   Motorcycles
   
71.17   Prohibiting hitchhiking
Through, One-Way, and Yield Streets, and Stop Intersections
   
71.30   Through streets
   
71.31   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.32   Stop streets
   
71.33   Yield right-of-way streets
   
71.34   Posting signs
Intoxicated Driving
   
71.45   Person intoxicated
   
71.46   Person on drugs
   
71.47   Blood tests
   
71.48   Adoption of statutes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT, OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
reckless, negligent, or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-6) (Prior Code, § 24-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-503
§ 71.02 EXCESSIVE NOISE WHILE DRIVING.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating the vehicle, accelerate
the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle, causing an unreasonably loud noise.
(Prior Code, 24-5-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Careless driving. no person shall drive any vehicle with a wilful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Drag racing unlawful. No person shall be a participant in drag racing
as defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-504.
   (C)   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer. Any driver or operator
of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a
police officer directing such driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to
a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction, increases his or her
speed, extinguishes his or her lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to elude
the officer is guilty of a violation of this chapter. The signal given by the
police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or red or blue light; provided,
the officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform and, if driving a
vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked, showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
   (D)   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker. The Department and
local authorities, with reference to traffic control signs, signals, or markers
owned by the Department of local authority, are authorized to indicate the
ownership of such signs, signals, or markers on the back of such devices in
letters not less than three-eighths of an inch or more than three-fourths of an
inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other permanent means,
and, except for employees of the Department or local authorities, police
officers, contractors, and their employees engaged in highway construction
contract or work on the highway approved by the Department or local
authorities, is a violation of this chapter for any person to possess such
sign, signal, or marker so identified.
   (E)   Special speed limitations on elevated structures.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure
when such structure is sign-posted.
      (2)   Upon the trial of any person charged with the violation of this
section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the village and the
existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can
be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (F)   General speed restrictions. The speed limits on various streets shall
be approved by the Village Board, but shall not exceed 20 mph in a school zone
and not to exceed 25 mph in a residential street. Otherwise, 30 mph on an
arterial street unless otherwise posted.
   (G)   Special speed limit while passing schools.
      (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20
mph while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare
on or across which children pass going to and from school during school days
when school children are present.
      (2)   This division (G) shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs
are posted upon streets and maintained by the village or state wherein the
school zone is located. See Schedule D.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 STATE VEHICLE CODE; RULES OF THE ROAD ADOPTED.
   625 ILCS 11, as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly,
is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-1)
§ 71.05 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of authorized emergency vehicles making
use of audible and visual signals or a police vehicle properly and lawfully
making use of an audible or visual signal, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the street
clear of any intersection and shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of
the emergency vehicle, stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/1-907
§ 71.06 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, or the
county, or an urban district within the village, at a speed in excess of the
posted speed limit as designated by the village, or in an alley at a speed in
excess of 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-601
§ 71.07 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
any direction within 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-802
§ 71.08 NO LEFT TURN.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn left or right
at any place where such turns are prohibited by law. Such prohibition shall be
indicated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall
comply with the provision of this chapter relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 DRAG RACING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to be a
participant in drag racing.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-504
§ 71.11 ALCOHOL IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess, or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon, or about any motor vehicle, except in the
original package and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-502
§ 71.12 SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto that a
potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph
while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare
where children pass going to and from school. For the purposes of this section,
a school day shall begin at 7:00 a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-605
§ 71.13 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any street or highway
within the village or offer for barter or sale merchandise on said highway so
as to interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1416
§ 71.14 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle, sled, or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself
or his or her vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1504
§ 71.15 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board,
bumpers, top, or outside step of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Riding on motorcycles.
      (1)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
      (2)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride
the seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (3)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than
the height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (B)   Operation on one wheel. No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle, or motorized pedalcycle on one wheel.
   (C)   Special equipment. The operator of a motorcycle, motor driven cycle,
or motorized pedalcycle and every passenger thereon shall be protected by
glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403, 5/11-1403.2, and 5/11-1404
§ 71.17 PROHIBITING HITCHHIKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand in or on a public road or alongside thereof at
any place where a motor vehicle cannot safely stop off the main traveled
portion thereof for the purpose of soliciting a ride for himself or herself, or
for another, from the occupant of any vehicle. The provisions hereof shall not
be construed to prevent a person upon a public highway from soliciting, or a
driver of a vehicle giving a ride where an emergency actually exists, nor to
prevent a person from signaling or requesting transportation from a passenger
carrier for the purpose of becoming a passenger thereon for hire.
   (B)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity to a street or highway
for the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while
parked or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
THROUGH, ONE-WAY, AND YIELD STREETS, AND STOP INTERSECTIONS
§ 71.30 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by this chapter
as through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.31 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys in any direction other than that so
designated.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.32 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected, at one or more entrances thereto,
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop
which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the police officer shall be
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.33 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, in obedience to such sign,
shall slow down to speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection. If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.34 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop, and yield
right-of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys, and all stop
intersections.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-5)
INTOXICATED DRIVING
§ 71.45 PERSON INTOXICATED.
   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may drive or be
in actual physical control of any vehicle within this village.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.46 PERSON ON DRUGS.
   No person who is a habitual user of or under the influence of any narcotic
drug or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders
him or her incapable of safely driving a vehicle may drive or be in actual
physical control of any vehicle within this village. The fact that a person
charged with a violation of this section is or has been entitled to use such
drug under the law of this state does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47 BLOOD TESTS.
   (A)   Upon the trial of any action or proceeding arising out of the acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
evidence of the amount of alcohol in the person’s blood at the time of the act
alleged as shown by chemical analysis of his or her breath, blood, urine,
saliva, or other bodily substance is admissible, as provided hereinafter, and
the result of any such analysis shall give rise to the following presumptions.
      (1)   If there was, at the time of such analysis, 0.05% or less by weight
of alcohol in the person’s blood, it shall be presumed that the person was not
under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
      (2)   If there was, at the time of such analysis, in excess of 0.05%, but
less than 0.1% by weight of alcohol in the person’s blood, such fact shall not
give rise to any presumption that the person was or was not under the influence
of intoxicating liquor, but such fact may be considered with other competent
evidence in determining whether such person was under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
      (3)   If there was, at the time of such analysis, 0.1% or more by weight
of alcohol in the person’s blood, it shall be presumed that the person was
under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
   (B)   Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams of
alcohol per 100 cubic centimeters of blood. Evidence based on a chemical
analysis of blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance shall not be
admitted unless such substance was produced and such analysis made with the
consent of the person as provided by state law, as amended, whose bodily
substance was so analyzed.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the
question, whether or not the person being tried was under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-3)
§ 71.48 ADOPTION OF STATUTES.
   The provisions of the Illinois Revised Statutes, as amended, regarding the
standards for chemical analysis and the evidentiary use thereof shall be
observed.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-4)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.02   Towing cars away
   
72.03   Parking violations
   
72.04   Parking trucks, tractors, and trailers
   
72.05   Time limit parking
   
72.06   Vehicles for sale
   
72.07   Prima facie proof
   
72.08   Unattended vehicles
   
72.09   Unattended animals
   
72.10   Alleys
   
72.11   Parking motor vehicles on private property
   
72.12   Loading zones
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways or a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In any alley that is open and maintained; or
         (m)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will prohibit or
impede passage of emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant with the exception of the
hydrant between West Ash and West Maple Street, which shall be within ten feet
on the south side of the hydrant and five feet on the north side of the
hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station when properly
sign-posted;
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking;
         (g)   Within 20 feet of an intersection; or
         (h)   At left-hand curb.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-1) (Prior Code, § 24-6-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1303
§ 72.02 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   The Police Department, and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty, are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer, or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant, or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 consecutive hours.
Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any village property or in a public
garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof
after payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and storing
such vehicle(s).
(Prior Code, § 24-5-3) (Prior Code, § 24-6-4)
§ 72.03 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of a law prohibiting parking a
vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may
be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for
such illegal parking by paying the village $5. Such payment may be made at the
Village Hall, and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received, and such
money shall be promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the
Police General Operating Fund. If payment is not received within 72 hours, the
matter can be resolved by paying the village the sum of $15.
      (2)   Provided, that this division (A) shall not apply to persons parking
a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or
Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is housed. Nor shall
this division (A) apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to
entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, nor to any person who refuses
to move a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-4)
   (B)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or
her for such illegal parking by paying to the village $1 for each such offense.
Such payment may be made at the Village Hall, and a receipt shall be issued for
all money so received, and such money shall be promptly turned over to the
Treasurer, to be credited to the Parking Meter Fund. The members of the Police
Department are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for
the alleged offense involved for at least 24 hours.
      (2)   Provided, that this division (B) shall not apply to persons parking
a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or
Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so
as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this division (B)
apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct
traffic in any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on
an arterial street to one-way traffic only, nor to any person who refuses to
move a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5)
§ 72.04 PARKING TRUCKS, TRACTORS, AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   No person or persons shall park any truck, tractor, or trailer with a
capacity of one ton or over, used for commercial purposes, whether governed by
the rules and regulations of the State Motor Vehicle Code or not, on any
residential street in the village for a period longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   There shall be excepted from the provisions of division (A) above any
person engaged in loading or unloading of merchandise, providing that the
driver of such truck remain in the vicinity of such vehicle during the period
it is so parked.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from which
vehicle merchandise is peddled or sold.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The face that an automobile which is illegally parked or operated is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-6)
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereon, and, when
standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or
side of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-14) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1401
§ 72.09 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed 30 minutes, in any place designated by
the Village Board as a loading zone and marked as such.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-13) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons found guilty of violating §
72.04 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $10.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-6)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Bicycles
   
73.02   Toy vehicles
   
73.03   Skateboards and the like
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Policy statement
   
73.17   Rules and regulations
   
73.18   Permits
   
73.19   Enforcement
   
73.20   Golf cart regulations also apply to UTVs
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a backpack or sling.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-13) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1503
§ 73.02 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled, or other
toy vehicle to go upon any roadway other than a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-17) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The practice of riding or propelling oneself upon a device commonly
known or referred to as a skateboard, roller skates, blade skates, scooters, or
similar devices is hereby prohibited on the streets and roadways of the
village.
   (B)   The use of skateboards, roller skates, blade skates, scooters, or
similar devices is restricted to use on public sidewalks or other areas
specifically designated for use of such recreational devices. All pedestrian
traffic shall have the right-of-way on all village sidewalks.
   (C)   The use of skateboards, roller skates, blade skates, scooters, or
similar devices shall be prohibited on the sidewalks of the downtown business
area of the village where the edge of the sidewalk and the storefronts are
contiguous.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 2-5-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and his, her, or their golf clubs or
maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the
play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or
private golf course.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village,
except for state and county roads, that are not striped with lane markings and
have a posted speed limit of 30 mph or less.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 73.16 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and roads,
hereinafter “streets,” and the village in no way advocates or endorses their
operation on streets. The village, by regulating such operation, is merely
addressing safety issues.
   (B)   This subchapter is not to be relied upon as determination that
operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (C)   All persons operating golf carts must be observant of, and attentive
to, the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other
motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians.
   (D)   All persons who operate or ride golf carts on streets inside the
village do so at their own risk and peril.
   (E)   The village has no liability under any theory of liability for
permitting golf carts to be operated on village streets.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 73.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts may only be operated on streets within the village in
accordance with the following rules and regulations.
   (B)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV on village streets must
possess a valid driver’s license.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart in the village takes full
responsibility for all liability associated with operating the golf cart.
   (D)   Any person who operates a golf cart must possess proof of liability
insurance meeting state statutes requirements.
   (E)   Golf carts may be driven on streets only from sunrise to sunset.
   (F)   A golf cart shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted at all
times when operated on village streets.
   (G)   Golf carts may not be operated when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog, or other conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light
to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (H)   Golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks or village parks other
than parking areas.
   (I)   Golf carts or UTVs may be operated on village streets which have a
posted speed limit of 30 mph or less and may never exceed posted speed limits
on those streets.
   (J)   Golf carts may not be operated on the followings state highways or
county roads except to cross said highways at intersections in a path 90
degrees to said highways:
      (1)   State Route 37 (Broadway) can only be crossed at Hillcrest Drive,
Bradley, Hale, and Gore Streets. No crossing allowed at Main, Collins, or Jones
Streets; and
      (2)   Goreville Road (Main) can only be crossed at Ferne Clyffe Road, Old
Main (to Village Park), and Fly Avenue.
   (K)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (3)   Turn signals;
      (4)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (5)   Rearview mirror;
      (6)   Approved “slow moving vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle;
      (7)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
      (8)   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
      (9)   The permit number, at least three inches high, shall be displayed
in the middle of the slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of said vehicle;
and
      (10)   Any additional requirements of the State Motor Vehicle Code.
   (L)   Any person who operates a golf cart on the streets in the village must
adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages, and all other illegal drugs, as well as all other state
traffic laws.
   (M)   Golf cart drivers must yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles
at all times.
   (N)   The maximum occupancy of golf carts traveling on village streets shall
not exceed the number of seatbelts installed on the vehicle. Every person must
have their own seat and be seated at all times that the vehicle is in
operation. No one is allowed to stand on or hang off the golf cart. Children
under six years of age must wear seatbelts while said golf cart is in motion,
and may not be transported in a negligent manner.
   (O)   Golf carts are only allowed to park in handicapped parking spaces if
the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking sticker.
   (P)   No unsafe modifications may be made to the vehicle’s suspension.
   (Q)   All golf carts on the streets must be inspected by the person(s) or
entity(s) designated by the Mayor or Village Board of Trustees, and must have
valid permit documentation from the village visibly displayed on the back rear
of the cart on the driver’s side.
   (R)   Vehicles with motors in excess of 1,000 cc shall not be permitted
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-2-2014; Ord. 2015-1-A, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart without obtaining a
permit from the village as provided in this section.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier, including insurance policy
number;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, and description of golf cart;
      (4)   Signed release and waiver of liability by applicant releasing the
village and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and
all future claims resulting from their operation on village streets;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   A non-refundable permit application fee of $30 for all applicants;
and
      (7)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (C)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and may be renewed
annually, for the period of May 1 to April 30.
   (D)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the Police Chief or his or her
designated representative (by appointment only) to ensure that the vehicle is
safe to operate on village streets and is in compliance with this subchapter
and with the State Motor Vehicle Code.
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by the physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart on village streets.
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance.
   (E)   Insurance coverage will be verified as in effect by the village when
issuing or renewing a permit.
   (F)   The village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this subchapter
or there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart
on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-2-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor and the Trustees’ Safety Committee shall monitor the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon investigation by and the recommendation of the village, the
Village Board may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a finding
that there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate the motorized
golf cart on the designated streets.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees of the village reserves the right to amend or
repeal this subchapter at any time, and if such amendment or repeal affects the
rights of permit holders, all permit holders will be notified thereof by the
village by certified mail.
   (D)   No person receiving a permit pursuant to the terms of this subchapter
shall have any legal right to the continuation of said subchapter regardless of
the cost of rendering a golf cart in compliance with this subchapter for the
purpose of its operation in the village pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   The village shall not, under any circumstances, be liable for any
expenses incurred by an applicant or licensee for that applicant or licencee’s
cost for the acquisition and/or modification of such golf cart to comply with
the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 73.20 GOLF CART REGULATIONS ALSO APPLY TO UTVs.
   (A)   Any part of this subchapter that mentions golf carts will not apply
also to UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES (UTVs), defined as a self-propelled,
electrically powered four-wheeled motor vehicle with an engine displacement
less than 1,200 cubic centimeters. A UTV is designated to be operated by a
person sitting in a designated seat.
   (B)   Operators of UTVs must apply for a county permit and will be
additionally subject to all rules and regulations pertaining to UTVs as
described in County Ordinance #19-29, even when operating the vehicle within
the village limits.
(Ord. 2015-1-A, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalties for violating the provisions of §
73.03 are as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, the citing officer may, at his or her
discretion, issue a warning citation or, if the circumstances warrant, the
officer may issue a $25 fine plus costs;
      (2)   The second violation of §
73.03 will result in a $25 fine plus costs;
      (3)   The third violation of §
73.03 will result in a $50 fine plus costs; and
      (4)   All additional violations of §
73.03 by the same party will result in a $50 fine plus costs and impoundment of
the offending device for a period of no less than 30 days nor any longer than
180 days as determined by the citing officer. In addition to any fine levied,
the offending party will be required to pay an impounding fee of $5 for each
30-day period of impoundment. For example, a device impounded for 45 days would
require an impoundment fee of $10 in addition to the levied fine and costs.
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of §§
73.15 to
73.20 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $750
for each violation.
      (2)   A second violation of §§
73.15 to
73.20 shall, in addition to being subject to fine, be grounds for the
revocation of the vehicle’s permit issued for a period of up to one year.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 2-5-2001; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-2-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Limited time parking
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED TIME PARKING.
   (A)   On-street parking along State Route 37 in the village immediately in
front of the post office is hereby designated as limited time parking, so that
the area can be assessed by post office patrons.
   (B)   Limits on parking are as follows.
      (1)   Parking will be limited on Monday through Friday to 15 minutes
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.
      (2)   The limited parking area will include the spaces from the corner of
East Collins Street and South Broadway North to the posted sign.
      (3)   Parking continues to be prohibited at the corner and in front of
the mail receptacle as it has been.
   (C)   Violators of this schedule are subject to a fine of $50.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 6-1-2009)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Specific nuisances enumerated
   
90.002   Nuisances detrimental to health generally
   
90.003   Unhealthful businesses
   
90.004   Notice to abate
   
90.005   Failure to comply with notice
   
90.006   Abatement
Weeds
   
90.020   Definition
   
90.021   Nuisance
   
90.022   Service of notice
   
90.023   Abatement
   
90.024   Lien
   
90.025   Payment
   
90.026   Foreclosure of lien
Garbage and Debris
   
90.040   Accumulation prohibited
   
90.041   Notice to person
   
90.042   Service of notice
   
90.043   Abatement
   
90.044   Lien
   
90.045   Payment
   
90.046   Foreclosure of lien
Litter
   
90.060   Definitions
   
90.061   Litter in public places
   
90.062   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
90.063   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
90.064   Littering from vehicles
   
90.065   Truck loads causing litter
   
90.066   Litter in parks
   
90.067   Litter on occupied private property
   
90.068   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
90.069   Litter on vacant lots
   
90.070   Public receptacles
   
90.071   Maintenance of unsightly premises
   
90.072   Receptacles; upsetting or tampering
   
90.073   Sidewalks and alleys free from litter
   
90.074   Handbills
   
90.075   Construction sites
   
90.076   Loading and unloading docks
   
90.077   Parking lots
   
90.078   Clearing of litter from open private property by the village
Abandoned and Inoperable Vehicles
   
90.090   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
90.091   Definitions
   
90.092   Abandonment
   
90.093   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
90.094   Removal of motor vehicles or other vehicles; towing or hauling away
   
90.095   Police responsibilities
   
90.096   Unknown owner
   
90.097   State police information
   
90.098   Public sale; reclamation
   
90.099   Notification; new car; mail
   
90.100   Notification of sale
   
90.101   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
90.102   Public sale proceeds
   
90.103   Liability of village
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace,
and comfort of the village for any person, firm, or corporation within the
limits of the village to permit the following, but the enumeration of the
following nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Filth. To cause of suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal,
filth, or noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or to remain in any
place, to the prejudice of others;
   (B)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal, in any watercourse, lake,
pond, spring, well, or common sewer, street, or public highway;
   (C)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond, or lake to the injury or prejudice of
others;
   (D)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places;
   (E)   Manufacturing gunpowder. To carry on the business of manufacturing
gunpowder, nitroglycerin, or other highly explosive substances, or mixing or
grinding the materials therefor, in any building within 20 rods of any valuable
building erected at the time such business may be commenced;
   (F)   Powder magazines. To establish powder magazines near incorporated
towns, at a point different from that appointed according to law by the
corporate authorities of the town, or within 50 rods of any occupied dwelling
house;
   (G)   Noxious odors. To erect, continue, or use any building or other place
for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is offense or dangerous to
the health of individuals, or of the public;
   (H)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on or affixing them to fences or other private property, or
on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities;
   (I)   Wells unplugged. To permit any well drilled for oil, gas, salt water
disposal, or any other purpose in connection with the production of oil and
gas, to remain unplugged after such well is no longer used for the purpose for
which it was drilled;
   (J)   Burn-out pits. To construct or operate any salt water pit or oil field
refuse pit, commonly called a “burn-out” pit, so that salt water, brine, or oil
field refuse or other waste liquids may escape therefrom in any manner except
by the evaporation of such salt water or brine or by the burning of such oil
field waste or refuse;
   (K)   Discarded materials. To permit concrete bases, discarded machinery,
and materials to remain around any oil or gas well, or to fail to fill any
holes, cellars, slush pits, and other excavations made in connection with any
such well or to restore the surface of the lands surrounding any such well to
its condition before the drilling of any such well, upon abandonment of any
such oil or gas well;
   (L)   Underground wells. To permit any salt water, oil, gas, or other wastes
from any well drilled for oil, gas, or exploratory purposes to escape to the
surface, or into a mine or coal seam, or into any underground fresh water
supply, or from one underground stratum to another;
   (M)   Harassment. To harass, intimidate, or threaten any person who is about
to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property, or
is about to buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real
property, when the harassment, intimidation, or threat relates to a person’s
attempt to sell, buy, or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers
to a person’s sale, purchase, or lease of a residence or other real property;
   (N)   Business. To establish, maintain, and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business within the village limits, or within one mile of the
limits;
   (O)   Filthy premises conditions. To keep or suffer to be kept in a foul,
offensive, nauseous, or filthy condition, any chicken coop, cow barn, stable,
cellar, vault, drain, privy, sewer, or sink upon any premises belonging to or
occupied by him or her, or any railroad car, building, yard, grounds, and
premises belonging to or occupied by him or her;
   (P)   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk, street, or other
public building or floor or walk of any public vehicle or hall;
   (Q)   Animals prohibited. To own or possess any swine, goats, horses, or
fowl, or cattle within the village, unless permission is granted in writing by
the Village Board;
   (R)   Litter on village streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow trash, paper, cardboard, wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick, lumber,
wood, or litter of material objects of any size or description to fall upon
village streets from any moving vehicle, or to be thrown from a moving vehicle,
and to remain thereon;
   (S)   Slaughtering, slaughterhouses, and the like. To slaughter or kill any
animals within the village or to locate or maintain at any place within the
village, or within a radius of one mile without the village, any
slaughterhouse, packing house, rendering establishment, or bone factory, or to
suffer or permit any premises at any place within the limits aforesaid used for
any of the purposes aforesaid to become foul or offensive;
   (T)   Accumulations of junk, trash. To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage, refuse,
plastic, brush, litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles, or broken glass upon
any lot, piece, or parcel of land, or upon any public or private alley, street,
or public way within the village and to place same so that it can be blown
about or scattered by the wind;
   (U)   Buildings. To construct or maintain any buildings or structure in
violation of any of the building provisions of this village, or any building
which is in an unsanitary condition, or in an unsafe or dangerous condition, or
which in any manner endangers the health or safety of any person or persons, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Every building or part thereof which
is in an unsanitary condition by reason of the basement or cellar being damp or
wet, or by reason of the floor of such basement or cellar being covered by
stagnant water, or by reason of the presence of sewer gas, or by reason of any
portion of a building being infected with disease or being unfit for human
habitation, or which by reason of any other unsanitary condition, is a source
of sickness or which endangers the public health, is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance;
   (V)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor, or encourage the infestation of rodents;
   (W)   Bringing nuisances into the village. To bring into the village, or
keep therein for sale or otherwise, either for food or for any other purpose,
any dead or live animal or any matter, substance, or thing which shall be a
nuisance or which shall occasion a nuisance in the village, or which may or
shall be dangerous or detrimental to health;
   (X)   Offensive liquids. To keep any nauseous, foul, or putrid liquid or
substance of any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul,
offensive, or putrid, nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed,
thrown, or to flow from or out of any premises into or upon any adjacent
premises or any public street or alley, nor permit the same to be done by any
person connected with the premises under his or her control;
   (Y)   Motor transport engines. To operate motor transport engines in the
nighttime between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., in any place in which a
majority of the buildings within a radius of 400 feet are used exclusively for
residence purposes, excluding state and federal highways; and
   (Z)   General. To commit any offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land or made such by statute of the state.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-1) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 740 ILCS 55/221
§ 90.002 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH GENERALLY.
   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained, or operated in the village if
such use, keeping, or maintaining of any nuisance shall be dangerous or
detrimental to health.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESSES.
   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatever which shall be dangerous
or detrimental to health shall be allowed to exist in connection with any
business, or be used therein, or be used in any work or labor performed in the
village, and no nuisance shall be permitted to exist in connection with any
business or in connection with any such work or labor.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   It shall be the duty of the designated authority to serve notice, in
writing, upon the owner, occupant, agent, or person in possession or control of
any lot, building, or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found, or
who may be the owner or the cause of any such nuisance, requiring him or her to
abate the same within five days in such a manner as the designated authority
shall prescribe. It shall not be necessary in any case for the designated
authority to specify in the notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be
abated, unless he or she shall deem it advisable to do so.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-5)
§ 90.005 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the time
specified, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ABATEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the designated authority to proceed at once upon the
expiration of the time specified in the notice to cause nuisance to be abated;
provided, however, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent, or person in
possession or control of any premises, in or upon which any nuisance may be
found, is unknown or cannot be found, the designated authority shall proceed to
abate such nuisance without notice. In either case, the expense of such
abatement shall be collected from the person who may have created or suffered
such nuisance to exist, in addition to any penalty or fine.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-8)
WEEDS
§ 90.020 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, the following: burdock, ragweed
(giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common
milkweed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lambsquarter,
wild lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all varieties), poison hemlock, wild
hemp, and johnson grass, and all other noxious WEEDS.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 90.021 NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for the
owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect to cut weeds when such
weeds shall have reached a height of eight inches.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided,
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-3)
§ 90.023 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within 72 hours, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-5)
§ 90.024 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A
bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof
incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner: the village
or the person performing the service by authority of this village, in its or
his or her own name, may file notice of lien in the Office of the Recorder of
Deeds of the county.
   (B)   The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement, setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village, and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-6)
§ 90.025 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
this address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of
lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-7)
§ 90.026 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after
lien in effect for 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-20-7
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 90.040 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or her
premises or private property. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect
to remove the garbage or debris.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.41 NOTICE TO PERSON.
   The Mayor, Chief of Police, or the Mayor’s designated representative may
issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris. Such garbage or debris
shall be removed by the owner or occupant within ten days after such notice has
been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the same to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or her
household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by mailing
such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided, that if
the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then
the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-3)
§ 90.043 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 90.044 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service shall be
presented to the owner.
   (B)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the village shall
be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
§ 90.045 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 90.046 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment
of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after lien is in effect
for 60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two years
after the date of filing notice of lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-8)
LITTER
§ 90.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future and words used in the plural number include the singular number. The
word SHALL is always mandatory not merely directory.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container of water-tight construction with
a tight-fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within. Such RECEPTACLES shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed matter or
literature which is not delivered by the United States Postal Service,
including, but not limited to, those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety, and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping, and transporting goods, wares,
commodities, and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river, or land.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, recreation center, or any other
public area in the village, owned or used by the village and devoted to
recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization, or school.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property, including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land, building, or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional, or religious purposes,
together with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps,
vestibule, mailbox, and other structure(s) appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses, or fountains, and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non-combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-1)
§ 90.061 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public place within the village, except in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.063 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the village the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property or business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter, except dust and soil.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.064 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village unless such vehicle is so constructed or so
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents, or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.065 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the village
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load or
contents of litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
other public place.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.066 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the village,
except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the village, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner
or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other
public place or upon any private property.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-8) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.068 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall, at all times,
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection or within any building when not in violation of any health, fire,
building, or other regulation, order, ordinance, or statute.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.069 LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the village, whether owned by such person or not.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.070 PUBLIC RECEPTACLES.
   All outside public receptacles shall be at least 18 inches in diameter and
24 inches in height, and shall be made of metal.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.071 MAINTENANCE OF UNSIGHTLY PREMISES.
   Every person owning, or managing, or having charge, control, or occupancy of
any real property in the village shall not allow any part of such property
visible from the street or adjoining premises to become so unsightly or untidy
as to substantially detract from the appearance of the immediate neighborhood
which tends to threaten the safety and welfare of the immediate neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.072 RECEPTACLES; UPSETTING OR TAMPERING.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.073 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying, or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.074 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any
handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises; provided,
however, that in case of private premises which are not posted against the
receiving of handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by
anyone upon such premises not to do so, may securely place any such handbill in
such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements
upon any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (C)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only of
newspapers or political literature, except that newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (D)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of the vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (E)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which he or she is utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.075 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-16) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.076 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating, or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-17) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.077 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provisions for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include, but
not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots,
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide
in an easily accessible location a minimum of one refuse container for every 50
parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight-fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition, and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as provided in
division (A) above for the purposes intended, and it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-18) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.078 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY THE VILLAGE.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense(s) thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected
shall be in accordance with the state statutes. The Mayor and his or her
designated representative shall be responsible for the implementation of this
enforcement program.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-19)
ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
§ 90.090 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least 30 day,
the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated so
that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
         (b)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, nor to any
motor vehicles that are kept within a building when not in use; nor to operable
historic vehicles over 25 years of age, nor to a motor vehicle on the premises
of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking or motor vehicles.
   (B)   If the motor vehicle in question is not repaired or removed within
seven days following the service of proper notice, the Village Police
Department or its agent may remove the inoperable motor vehicle or parts
thereof.
   (C)   In addition to having the power to remove inoperable vehicles, the
village shall also have the power to impose the enforce the following: if the
motor vehicle in question is not repaired or removed pursuant to division (B)
above, the owner(s) of said vehicle shall be charged a fine in accordance with
§
90.999.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-1) (Res. 25-4-1-8-10-97, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3
§ 90.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair, rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition, or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley, or public way within this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-1)
§ 90.092 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Highway. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (B)   Private property. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicles
or any part thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in
view of the general public anywhere in this municipality is unlawful, except on
property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   Owner’s property. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the
order of the Chief of Police of the municipality, after a waiting period of
seven days or more has expired.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.093 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
municipality, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately
notify the Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of
the municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police, or
his or her designated representative shall authorize a towing service to remove
and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle
or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it
is disposed of as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.094 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned, or left unattended, on a toll highway,
interstate highway, or expressway for two hours or more, its removal by a
towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
   (C)   When a vehicle is abandoned, or left unattended on a highway other
than a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway outside of an urban
district for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
   (D)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway, or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to
the highway by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department of
the municipality.
   (E)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Police Department, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-4)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-203
Cross-reference:
   Impounding vehicles involved in crimes, see
Ch. 70
§ 90.095 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, as
provided herein, the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing by color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade
name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, Vehicle Identification Number,
and license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall
also include the date and hour of the tow, location towed from, location towed
to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-5)
§ 90.096 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Municipal Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department authorizing the impoundment will cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the State Police to be searched by a directed
communication to the State Police Department for stolen or wanted information
of the vehicle. The information determined from these record searches will be
used by the Police Department in sending notification by certified mail to the
owner or legally entitled person, advising where the vehicle is held,
requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale information.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-6)
§ 90.097 STATE POLICE INFORMATION.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for the purpose
of identifying the vehicle’s owner, or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police will be
immediately forwarded to the Police Department having custody of the vehicle
for notification of owner.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-7)
§ 90.098 PUBLIC SALE; RECLAMATION.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided for in §
90.099, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession may
reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department, proof of ownership,
or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be
released to the owner or other person under this section until all towing and
storage charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-8)
§ 90.099 NOTIFICATION; NEW CAR; MAIL.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle four years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the Police
Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department, due to
the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-9)
§ 90.100 NOTIFICATION OF SALE.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle
of four years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this subchapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein, or disposed of in
the manner authorized by this subchapter, without notice to the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   Old car.
      (1)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than four years of age is
impounded as specified by this subchapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of
the registered owner by the U.S. Mail, public service, or in person for a
determination of disposition, and an examination of the State Police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
      (2)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   (C)   Antique vehicle.
      (1)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle
may, however, be sold to a person desiring to restore such vehicle.
      (2)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle
is otherwise excluded from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-10)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3
§ 90.101 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this subchapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by
the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-11)
§ 90.102 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this subchapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges, shall be deposited in the
Municipal Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-12)
§ 90.103 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-13)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If one fails to abate said nuisance and is found guilty of violating
any section of §§
90.001 to
90.006, he or she shall be punished by a fine as follows:
 
Offense                      Not Less Than Not More Than
First offense                $5            $500
Second offense               $50           $500
Third offense and thereafter $500          $500
 
(Prior Code, § 25-1-9)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §§
90.040 to
90.046 shall, in addition to the penalties provided, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $15, nor more than $300, for each violation. Each day a violation
continues after notification constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-9)
   (D)   If the motor vehicle described in §
90.090 is not repaired or removed pursuant to §
90.090(B), the owner(s) of said vehicle shall be charged a $50 per day fine
until said vehicle is made operable or removed, said fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-1)
(Res. 25-4-1-8-10-97, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-2013
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
91.03   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
91.04   Duration of inoculation
   
91.05   Specifications for tag
   
91.06   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
91.07   Restraint of dogs
   
91.08   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper
   
91.09   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
91.10   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
91.11   Destruction of unredeemed dogs
   
91.12   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
91.13   Village may provide pound
   
91.14   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
91.15   Duties of Chief of Police and manager of animal shelter relative to
subchapter
   
91.16   Duties of Village Clerk
   
91.17   Unknown owner; posting notice
   
91.18   Dog catcher
Animals
   
91.30   Definitions
   
91.31   Personnel
   
91.32   Duties of the animal control officer
   
91.33   Powers of the Village Board
   
91.34   Police powers
   
91.35   Animal bite
   
91.36   Registration of forms and tag fees
   
91.37   Inoculation requirements
   
91.38   Collar and identification requirements
   
91.39   Control by owner
   
91.40   Nuisance animals
   
91.41   Vicious and dangerous dogs
   
91.42   Impoundment
   
91.43   Notice of impoundment
   
91.44   Redemption
   
91.45   Collection of funds
   
91.46   Prevention of spread of rabies
   
91.47   Apprehension and investigation
   
91.48   Citations
   
91.49   Dumping of animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of its owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DOG. Includes a female as well as a male DOG.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture of the state of canine anti-rabic
vaccine, approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his or her care, or who acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him
or her.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is UNDER RESTRAINT within the meaning of this subchapter if
he or she is controlled by a leash, at heel beside a responsible person, or
obedient to that person’s commands, within a vehicle being driven or parked on
the streets, or within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 91.02 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
three months or more of age, shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause said
dog to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address, and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   The inoculation of dogs required by §
91.02(A) shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in this state. Upon performing such inoculation, such
veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact
and shall also deliver to such owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag
to be attached to the collar or harness of such dog, which tag shall also
certify to the fact of inoculation against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 91.04 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
91.03 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which the
vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 91.05 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
91.03 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 91.06 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department,
the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his or her certificate
issued under the provisions of §
91.03 showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 91.07 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as defined in
§
91.01.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 91.08 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Chief of Police to
take up and impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that
purpose, any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the village, contrary
to any of the provisions of this subchapter or other ordinances of the village.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employees, such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employees, but the employees shall cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges for violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9)
§ 91.09 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of such dog is disclosed
by any tax or license tag worn by it, or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding same, the Police Department shall at once give notice by mail to
such owner or keeper, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog
and shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 91.10 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog impounded under the provisions of this code, except such as
may have bitten any person, as specified in §
91.12, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for the period of three days in
order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to redeem the same.
Any such owner or keeper desiring to redeem his or her impounded dog shall pay
the sum of $5.
   (B)   In case such dog has not been inoculated against rabies for the
current year, such owner shall also advance the fee required to have such dog
inoculated by a duly licensed veterinarian as he or she shall elect, and the
poundkeeper shall forthwith cause the dog to be duly inoculated against rabies.
No dog shall be released without having been inoculated for the current
calendar year, or in accordance with the requirements of the Department of
Agriculture. Upon payment of the required charges, the dog shall thereupon be
released to the owner or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 91.11 DESTRUCTION OF UNREDEEMED DOGS.
   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within three days shall be
humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the poundkeeper.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13)
§ 91.12 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded, and
kept separated from other dogs for 14 days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve
the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be delivered
to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the period of 14 days, no symptoms of rabies
have developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner
upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by §
91.10; provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person
shall have previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed
by the poundkeeper. After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten
or otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under
any circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 VILLAGE MAY PROVIDE POUND.
   The village may designate a suitable place for the impounding of dogs.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-15)
§ 91.14 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may in any manner continually disturb the quiet of any
person’s or neighborhood’s property, or shall destroy in any manner, injure any
animal, plant, shrub, or other property not on the premises of its owner or
keeper, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and
impounded and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under §
91.11.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-16)
§ 91.15 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE AND MANAGER OF ANIMAL SHELTER RELATIVE TO
SUBCHAPTER.
   Except as to the regulations concerning inoculation against rabies, the
Chief of Police is charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-17)
§ 91.16 DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to determine that all fees herein
provided or otherwise provided by law to be paid are properly accounted for to
the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-18)
§ 91.17 UNKNOWN OWNER; POSTING NOTICE.
   When any animal is impounded and its owner is unknown, there shall be placed
at the Village Hall by the dog catcher a notice describing the said animal and
where it is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-19)
§ 91.18 DOG CATCHER.
   The Mayor may appoint the dog catcher by and with the consent of the Village
Board. The salary shall be established in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-20)
ANIMALS
§ 91.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person hired by the village to perform the
duties assigned to that person by the Village Animal Control Act.
   BOARD. The Village Board of Trustees.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which, when either unmuzzled, unleashed,
or unattended by its owner or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places.
   DOG. All members of the family canidae.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, chain, or frame which shall be securely fastened
to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
strength to keep such dog or other under control.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog, cat, or other animal,
or who has a dog or other animal in his or her care, or acts as the custodian,
or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on or about
any premises occupied by him or her.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the dog’s owners or under control
by leash, or identification by collar or tags.
   VICIOUS DOG. 
      (1)   An individual dog that, when unprovoked, inflicts bites or attacks
a human being or other animal, either on public or private property.
      (2)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals.
      (3)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness, or unprovoked upon
human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or with
special equipment.
      (4)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation.
      (5)   Any individual dog which has been found to a be a dangerous dog
upon three separate occasions.
      (6)   No dog shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks, or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties. VICIOUS DOGS shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
   VETERINARIAN. A licensed veterinarian in the state and appointed pursuant to
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 91.31 PERSONNEL.
   The Chairperson of the Village Board shall appoint, with the advice and
consent of the Board, an Animal Control Officer whose salary and expenses shall
be set annually by the Board and incorporated in the annual budget. Said Animal
Control Officer may be removed by the Board for cause or may be reassigned at
the discretion of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 91.32 DUTIES OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to control and
prevent the spread of rabies through education, rabies inoculation, stray dog,
and animal control, impoundment, quarantine, and any other means deemed
necessary.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Administer and implement the animal control program in the village;
      (2)   Make such reports as are required by the Director of the State
Department of Agriculture and the Village Board;
      (3)   To answer to the Village Board whenever requested so to do
concerning the operation of the village’s animal control program; and
      (4)   Such other duties as are delineated in a job description formulated
and approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 91.33 POWERS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board, by virtue of this subchapter, shall have the following
authority and/or powers:
   (A)   To draft written rules and regulations for the operation of the
Village Board’s animal control program;
   (B)   To prepare an annual budget for the operation of the village animal
control program; and
   (C)   To approve all expenditures under the animal control program.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 91.34 POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer, for the purpose of enforcing the village
animal control program, shall have the power and authority of police officers
in the village and/or peace officers in the village, including, but not limited
to, the power and authority to issue and serve citations, summonses, and
orders, as well as serving and executing and serving all warrants and processes
issued by any Circuit Court.
   (B)   Said Animal Control Officer shall be authorized to carry mace, a
tranquilizer gun, and such other weapons as authorized by the Board, within its
discretion, said weapons to be carried in the vehicle of the officer and used
only in case of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 91.35 ANIMAL BITE.
   (A)   Any individual having knowledge that a person has been bitten by a dog
or other animal, and who fails to report such incident to the Animal Control
Officer, is in violation of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of any person
conducting or operating a medical facility, or any physician, nurse, or other
medical personnel to report to the local law enforcement agency or to the
Animal Control Officer when a person is treated for any injury resulting from
an animal bite.
   (B)   It shall then be the duty of any and all law enforcement personnel to
report to the Animal Control Officer any reports which are received concerning
a person being bitten by said animal.
   (C)   When the Animal Control Officer receives information that a person
other than a family member has been bitten by a dog or other animal, said
officer or his or her authorized representative shall have such dog or other
animal quarantined with a licensed veterinarian, for a period of ten days. When
a dog or other animal is quarantined for biting a person, the following steps
shall occur.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized representative
shall attempt to determine from the owner of the dog, or other animal to be
quarantined, at which veterinarian’s office said owner would prefer to have
their dog or animal quarantined. If designation of such a veterinarian is
impossible, or quarantine at the designated veterinarian is impossible,
veterinarians who maintain quarantine facilities in the region shall be used as
directed by the Village Board.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized representative
shall, in writing, notify the owner of the dog or other animal to be
quarantined, if the owner is known that he or she is responsible for all
quarantine costs and if the dog, or other animal, is not retrieved in ten days
with all costs being paid at that time, the animal shall be humanely destroyed,
or may be adopted upon inoculation and payment of all realized costs and
expenses of the village.
      (3)   The veterinarian observing the quarantined dog, or other animal
shall immediately report the clinical condition of the animal to the Animal
Control Officer, with confirmation in writing, within 24 hours, giving the
owner’s name, address, date of confinement, breed, description, age, and sex of
such dog or other animal on forms approved by the State Department of
Agriculture.
      (4)   At the end of said quarantine period, the veterinarian observing
the quarantined dog, or other animal, shall submit a written report to the
Animal Control Officer, advising him or her of the final disposition of the
animal on forms approved by the State Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 REGISTRATION OF FORMS AND TAG FEES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall provide licensed veterinarians with
rabies inoculation certificates in a form approved by the Village Board, which
shall be signed by the veterinarian administering the rabies inoculation
vaccine. The original of said certificate shall be issued to the owner of the
dog which has been inoculated and a copy of the certificate shall be returned
to the Animal Control Officer or his or her designated representative as soon
as practicable, preferably monthly.
   (B)   The Village Board shall provide annual rabies inoculation tags at a
set fee as determined by the Village Board. Rabies inoculation tags shall be in
a form and color prescribed by the State Department of Agriculture.
   (C)   All registration fees collected shall be remitted to the Village
Treasurer, who shall place such monies in an Animal Control Fund, which shall
be established for the purpose of paying costs of the animal control program.
These funds shall be used for paying the cost of stray dog control,
impoundment, education on animal control, rabies, and other costs incurred in
carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 91.37 INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner of a dog or cat four months of age or older shall cause such dog
or cat to be inoculated against tables by a licensed veterinarian annually or
every three years, depending on the type of vaccine used, June 30 of the
current year being the deadline for such inoculation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 91.38 COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner of a dog four months of age or older shall cause a current,
valid rabies inoculation tag to be attached to a collar or harness and worn by
the dog to which the tag was issued at all times. Every owner of a dog under
four months of age shall have a tag specifying the owner’s name, address, and
telephone number attached to a collar or harness, which shall be worn by the
dog at all times.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 CONTROL BY OWNER.
   Every owner of a dog shall keep such dog from leaving the premises occupied
by said owner unless the dog is accompanied or supervised by its owner or on a
leash.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   Any dog or other animal which howls, barks, or utters any other annoying and
disturbing sound which can be heard beyond the boundary or the premises of its
owner, with such volume and frequency so as to unreasonably disturb any
resident of the village is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is
hereby declared to be subject to the control, regulation, impoundment, and
abatement as provided herein and as provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure, which is a fence or structure of at least six feet in height,
forming or causing an enclosure, suitable to prevent the entry of young
children, and suitable to confine a vicious dog in conduction with other
measures which may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a
vicious dog within the enclosure.
   (B)   The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the enclosure
are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length, and
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the
dog.
   (C)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Administrator, Animal
Control Officer, or the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such
area, and shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction by
lethal injection.
   (D)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Animal Control Officer shall, and any peace officer may, apprehend and
impound the following dogs and/or other domestic animals:
   (A)   Dogs or other animals which have bitten a person;
   (B)   Dogs of four months of age or older which have not been inoculated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Dogs who are four months of age or
older and who are confined on the owner’s premises in keeping with the
provisions of this subchapter are exempt;
   (C)   Dogs four months of age of older, not on the premises of their owner,
and which do not have a current, valid rabies inoculation tag attached to their
collar or harness;
   (D)   Dogs under four months of age not on the premises of their owner and
which do not have an identification tag specifying the owner’s name, address,
and telephone number attached to their collar or harness; and
   (E)   Dogs wearing a current valid rabies inoculation tag or identification
tag which are not on the premises occupied by the dog’s owner and are not
accompanied or supervised by the owner and are not on a leash when a complaint
has been received by the Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
§ 91.43 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   When a dog or cat whose owner is known is impounded, notice shall be
immediately given to the owner by the Animal Control Officer or his or her
authorized representative. Notice shall be mailed to the owner at the last
known mailing address, by regular mail, postage prepaid. An affidavit or
testimony of the Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized representative
who mails the notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such
notice by the owner.
   (B)   In the case of dogs, cats, or other animals impounded pursuant to §
91.42, or if the dog or other animal is not redeemed within seven days from the
date the notice was mailed, or the dog or other animal impounded, if the owner
is unknown, the impounded dog or other animal shall be humanely dispatched, or
offered for adoption, in accordance with this subchapter or the laws that exist
or may hereinafter exist.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-14)
§ 91.44 REDEMPTION.
   When the owner of any dog or other animal impounded pursuant to §
91.42 desire to redeem the same, the following procedure shall be followed.
   (A)   At the time of impoundment, the Animal Control Officer shall prepare
an impoundment form to be approved and supplied by the Village Board,
indicating the amount of fine and costs, if imposed, as well as the total
amount of board and impoundment expenses which are due and owing the village.
   (B)   The impounding authority shall place on the impounding form a charge
of $5 per day for each day or part thereof when the dog or other animal was
impounded, plus a pickup fee in the amount of $25.
   (C)   Prior to release, the animal control warden shall provide an up-to-
date copy of the impoundment form to the Village Treasurer, indicating the
amounts owed. Upon full payment being received from the owner, a receipt or
other form indicating said payment shall be provided to the owner, who shall
then present said document to the Animal Control Officer prior to the release
of his or her dog.
   (D)   The owner shall then present to the Animal Control Officer a current
rabies inoculation certificate and a receipt from the Village Treasurer
confirming that the total amount due, as indicated by the impoundment form, has
been paid in full. If no current rabies certificate is available, notice is to
be issued to the owner that the animal must be inoculated within five days.
   (E)   Animals may only be redeemed during normal business hours, Monday
through Friday, or as directed by the Animal Control Officer, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, and all fees, excluding fines and costs,
which are due the County Circuit Clerk, shall be paid at the Village Hall
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding
recognized county holidays.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-15)
§ 91.45 COLLECTION OF FUNDS.
   Any and all amounts collected by the Village Clerk pursuant to this section
and subchapter shall be placed in a separate account to be known as the Animal
Control Fund, and shall be used in paying the costs of operating the animal
control program.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-16)
§ 91.46 PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF RABIES.
   (A)   Whenever a case of rabies has occurred in a locality, or when the
proper officials of a government unit are apprehensive of the spread of rabies,
the Village Board may order the following:
      (1)   All dogs or other animals in the locality shall be:
         (a)   Kept confined within an enclosure; or
         (b)   Kept muzzled and restrained by a leash.
      (2)   All owners or keepers of dogs or other animals take prophylactic
measures it deems necessary to prevent the spread of rabies; and
      (3)   Other measures as may be necessary to prevent the spread of rabies.
   (B)   The Village Board may determine the area of the locality in which, and
the period of time during which, such orders shall be effective.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-17)
§ 91.47 APPREHENSION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter,
the Animal Control Officer, or his or her authorized representative, or any
peace officer, may enter onto private property as follows:
      (1)   To apprehend a dog or other animal thought to be infected with
rabies;
      (2)   To apprehend a straying dog or other animal; or
      (3)   To apprehend a dog or other animal who has bitten any person.
   (B)   At the request of the owner or occupier of private property, the
Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized representative may enter onto
such property to apprehend any dog, whether or not said dog is wearing a rabies
inoculation tag or identification tag.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-18)
§ 91.48 CITATIONS.
   Animal Control Officers and all peace officers in the village may issue
citations to animal owners for violations of this subchapter in lieu of
impounding the animal. When such citation is issued, and appearance date of not
less than ten days and not more than 45 days shall be entered by the officer,
on the citation itself. The owner of the animal may plead guilty to the offense
charged in the citation prior the scheduled appearance date by so indicating on
the citation and paying a fine as described in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-19) (Ord. 2019-1, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 91.49 DUMPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall cause any animal to be dumped or abandoned in any
incorporated or unincorporated area of the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-20) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of the animal cited as described in §
91.48 may plead guilty to the offense charged in the citation prior to the
scheduled appearance date by so indicating on the citation and paying a fine of
$50 for first citation, plus any court costs, to the County Circuit Clerk.
      (2)   A second violation by the same animal shall be punishable by a fine
of $200, plus costs and shall require court appearances. Subsequent repeated
offenses could be cited up to $400, plus costs and court fees.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-19)
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of such offense as described in §
91.49 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500, with each violation being considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-20)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.30 to 91.49, except as stated in divisions (B) and (C) above, or any person
who counterfeits or forges any rabies inoculation certificate, shall be guilty
of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereto, shall be fined in an amount of
not less than $25 and not more than $200.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-21)
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 6-4-2018)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
Open Burning
   
92.15   Permitted and prohibited burn items
   
92.16   Acceptable conditions for burning
   
92.17   Recreational fires
   
92.18   Abatement and jurisdiction
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Fire Prevention Code recommended by the American Insurance Association,
being particularly the 1965 Edition, is hereby adopted by reference, pursuant
to authority of 24 Ill. Rev. Stat. 10-3 and 1241 to 1247, inclusive; provided,
that if any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code are in conflict with
state law or any ordinance of the village, the state law or such ordinance
shall prevail. At least three copies of such Fire Prevention Code will be found
on file in the office of the Village Clerk and are available for public use,
inspection, and examination.
(Prior Code, § 30-4-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.15 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED BURN ITEMS.
   (A)   Only natural yard waste such as leaves, lawn clippings, small limbs,
and shrub clipping resulting from routine private resident lawn maintenance are
allowed to be burned and must be burned on the premises on which such yard
waste is generated or fallen upon. Any tree limbs, sticks, branches, or debris
accumulated by residents in private yards within the village limits can be
dropped off at the village’s free dump site on Old Marion Road. Residents must
first check in with the Village Hall and sign for the key.
   (B)   Burning of domicile waste (garbage) or agricultural waste is
prohibited.
   (C)   There will be no burning of building materials, including sawn lumber.
   (D)   Burning of any combustible materials, such as roofing, mattresses,
carpet, or any items which may explode are prohibited.
   (E)   Commercial burning of any kind is prohibited. Any commercial burn will
be extinguished and billed under the illegal burns section of the Village Fire
Department Billing Ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 ACCEPTABLE CONDITIONS FOR BURNING.
   (A)   Private residents can perform legal burns on their property within the
village limits between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (1)   If a private resident plans to perform a controlled legal burn, he
or she must first contact one of the following entities prior to the burn:
         (a)   Village Hall 618-995-2157 (Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to
4:00 p.m.); or
         (b)   County Sheriff Department 618-658-8284.
      (2)   Provide the following information:
         (a)   Location of the proposed burn;
         (b)   Items being burned;
         (c)   Contact person with phone number; and
         (d)   Approximate hours of the burn.
   (B)   It is illegal to burn within two feet of the margin of any cement,
bituminous, or other hard surfaced paved street, highway, or sidewalk within,
or partly within the village limits. No burning shall occur on a village
street.
   (C)   Any burning is prohibited if it creates a visibility hazard on a
roadway, railroad, or airfield.
   (D)   No burning may be conducted within 20 feet of a residence or building.
   (E)   Burning may be in barrels or on the ground but must be attended at all
times.
   (F)   No one shall burn at any time the wind velocity, to a prudent person,
is such as to cause the burning to be a hazard to life or property. A violation
of this division (F) shall be presumed if, but not limited to, burning leaves
are blown from the immediate area in which it is being burned or atmospheric
conditions allow contaminants to be blown onto the property of another, causing
damage to real property or creating a nuisance to another person(s).
   (G)   Burning must be conducted when conditions will readily dissipate
contaminants.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (A)   RECREATIONAL FIRES shall consist of the burning of fuels for a
legitimate campfire, recreation, and cooking purposes, or in a domestic
fireplace, in an area where such burning is consistent with other laws,
provided that no garbage shall be burned in such case.
   (B)   The fire shall be conducted in a cleared open area of no less than a
20-foot radius.
   (C)   The fire shall occur in an appliance designed for such burning, a burn
pit, or an area surrounded by noncombustible material.
   (D)   No fires shall be allowed when winds are such as to cause a hazard to
life or property.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 ABATEMENT AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Village Fire Department will extinguish all illegal fires/burns.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to village limits only.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code
adopted by §
92.01, or any of the provisions of the code shall, upon conviction therefor, be
punished by a fine not less than $3, nor more than $200. Each day any
violations of any provisions of such Fire Prevention Code or the provisions of
§
92.01 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 30-4-2)
   (C)   Any village resident or an individual person (non-commercial) within
the village limits in violation of §§
92.15 to
92.18 shall be fined on the schedule below:
      (1)   Occurrence #1: written warning;
      (2)   Occurrence #2: fine of $125;
      (3)   Occurrence #3: fine of $250;
      (4)   Occurrence #4: fine of $500;
      (5)   Occurrence #5: fine of $1,000; and
      (6)   Occurrence #6 and beyond will result in a meeting with the Public
Safety Committee and a fine starting at $2,000.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws, in order that the safety and general welfare, peace, and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise control any housing accommodation and/
or real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability in the
conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental, or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations, and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease, or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed, or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges, or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker, or salesperson, financial institution, or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of his, her, or their race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with
regard to the sale, exchange, or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) above, it shall also be unlawful for any
real estate broker or employee thereof, owner, or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental, or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise obtaining or making available funds
for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute, or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale, or
the anticipated listing for sale, or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability; or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 11-1-2004)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Animals in parks
   
94.02   Horses on streets
   
94.03   Horses attended to
§ 94.01 ANIMALS IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful to ride or lead a horse or pony on sidewalks, public
playgrounds, or public parks in the village at all times.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 HORSES ON STREETS.
   Riding or leading a horse or pony is permitted from sunrise to sunset on the
streets subject to the provisions of Title VII applicable to the driver of a
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 HORSES ATTENDED TO.
   Horses or ponies will be attended at all times as to not cause danger or
harm to any person and/or property.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
      
111.   GAMBLING
CHAPTER 110: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
Alcohol
   
110.01   Liquor unlawful in village
   
110.02   Manufacturing unlawful
   
110.03   Definition
   
110.04   Sale by club or given to public
   
110.05   Medical treatment
Cannabis
   
110.20   Recitals
   
110.21   Definitions
   
110.22   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
110.23   Public nuisance declared
   
110.24   Violations
ALCOHOL
§ 110.01 LIQUOR UNLAWFUL IN VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, barter, or exchange any
intoxicating beverage in the village. It shall be unlawful to keep in the
village, for the purpose of selling the same or offering the same for sale, any
intoxicating beverage.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 MANUFACTURING UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to bottle, manufacture, distill, or prepare for sale in
any way any intoxicating beverage within the village.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Any liquid intended for human consumption containing
more than 0.5% by volume of alcohol.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-3)
§ 110.04 SALE BY CLUB OR GIVEN TO PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful to serve or give any intoxicating beverage in any club,
whether or not such beverage is offered, sold, or given to the public or only
to the members of the club.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 MEDICAL TREATMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent the sale
by a licensed pharmacist of any intoxicating beverage on the prescription of a
licensed physician for medical treatment.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-5)
CANNABIS
§ 110.20 RECITALS.
   The facts and statements contained in the preamble to the ordinance from
which this subchapter is derived are found to be true and correct and are
hereby adopted as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 110.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization,
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as
it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport, and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as
it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society, or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer, or
agent.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 110.22 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the village. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated, or aid, abet, or assist in the operation within the village of any of
the following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; or
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 1-6-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 110.24 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this subchapter may be enforced in accordance with the
provisions established herein.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 1-6-2020)
CHAPTER 111: GAMBLING
Section
Video Gambling
   
111.01   Recitals
   
111.02   Permitted facilities
   
111.03   Licenses and fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 RECITALS.
   The recitals found in the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived
are found to be fact and are incorporated in the operative portion of this
subchapter by reference with the same full force and effect as though fully set
forth herein. Such findings are incorporated herein as an expression of the
intent of the Village Board in adopting this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 111.02 PERMITTED FACILITIES.
   The Village Board adopts this subchapter allowing video gambling in the
following statutorily described facilities.
   (A)   LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT means a facility:
      (1)   At least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
      (2)   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
      (3)   Sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or commercial
fuel per month; and
      (4)   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES has the same meaning as defined in § 18b-101
of the State Vehicle Code.
   (C)   The requirement of division (A)(3) above may be met by showing that
estimated future sales or past sales average at least 10,000 gallons per month.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 11-4-2019; Ord. 2020-07-A, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 111.03 LICENSES AND FEES.
   There is hereby imposed upon each licensed truck stop establishment in the
village an annual fee of $25 per video gaming terminal located upon the
licensed premises. The terms VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL and LICENSED TRUCK STOP
ESTABLISHMENT shall have the same meanings as those set forth in the Video
Gaming Act, as now exists or is hereafter amended. Such license fee shall be
due and payable to the Village Clerk in January of each year, commencing with
January 2020.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any licensed truck stop establishment that fails to pay such fee
as described in §
111.03 during the month of January shall be subject to a fine for violation of
§§
111.01 through
111.03 in the amount of $100 plus court costs. Each day said license fee
remains unpaid following January 31 in any given year shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (2)   There shall be penalties hereby adopted for violating the
provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.03, namely: any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any
provision of §§
111.01 through
111.03 in the village shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   A monetary fine up to $750;
         (b)   The requirement that the defendant perform up to 150 hours of
community service; or
         (c)   Imprisonment up to six months in penal institution other than a
penitentiary.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 11-4-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct toward police officer
   
130.03   Disturbing church services
   
130.04   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
130.05   Intoxication in public
   
130.06   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
130.07   Unlawful assembly
   
130.08   Admission fees, fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
130.09   Playing on railroad or interstate highway property
   
130.10   Encouraging delinquency
   
130.11   Disturbing the peace
   
130.12   Unlawful conduct on a public way
   
130.13   Escape; aid in
   
130.14   Escapes
   
130.15   Expectorating on sidewalk or in public buildings
   
130.16   False pretenses
   
130.17   Begging
   
130.18   Concealed weapons
   
130.19   Games in streets
   
130.20   Tampering with public notice
   
130.21   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
   
130.22   Blasting in village
   
130.23   Storage of explosives
   
130.24   Throwing rocks and the like
   
130.25   Impersonation of officer
   
130.26   Skateboards and the like prohibited
   
130.27   Destruction of public property
   
130.28   Fortune telling and the like
   
130.29   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
130.30   Aid to an offense
   
130.31   Posting bills
   
130.32   Nudity in public place
   
130.33   Prostitution
   
130.34   Soliciting or patronizing a prostitute
   
130.35   Intimidation
   
130.36   Abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes
   
130.37   Injuring utility wires and poles
   
130.38   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
130.39   Refusing to aid an officer
   
130.40   Street signs; molestation prohibited
   
130.41   Trespassing
   
130.42   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco to minors
   
130.43   Smokeless tobacco
   
130.44   Public indecency
   
130.45   Assault
   
130.46   Battery
   
130.47   Criminal housing management
   
130.48   Theft of lost or mislaid property
   
130.49   Theft
   
130.50   Theft of labor or services or use of property
   
130.51   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment
   
130.52   Disorderly conduct
   
130.53   Criminal damage to property
   
130.54   Parental responsibility
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases of 720 ILCS 5/2-
5 through 5/2-22, as approved, adopted, and amended, are hereby adopted by the
village, as fully as if set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT TOWARD POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall, in the village, by violent, tumultuous, or obstreperous
conduct, or carriage, or by loud and unusual noises, disturb any police officer
in the discharge of his or her duties, and no person shall use unseemly,
profane, obscene, or offensive language in the presence of a police officer;
nor shall any person assault, strike, or fight with any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties or permit such conduct in or upon any house or
premises in this village, owned or possessed by him or her or under his or her
management and control.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
§ 130.03 DISTURBING CHURCH SERVICES.
   No person shall, in this village, disturb or disquiet any congregation or
assembly met for religious worship by making any noise or by rude and indecent
behavior, or by profane or obscene discourse, or in any other manner, within or
near his or her place of worship.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God, or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.05 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the village, be found in a state of intoxication, or
drunk, in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or
roving about the streets, alleys, or sidewalks of this village, or the private
grounds of any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall
disturb the peace, order, and quiet of the village, or the peace and quiet of
the citizens thereof, by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent
language or behavior, or in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3
§ 130.06 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence
or any fence constructed in whole or in part of barbed wire or to use barbed
wire as a guard to any parking lot, stairway, or entrance to a building.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for persons to assemble unlawfully in the
following situations:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
      (2)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-7)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together for
the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an
unlawful act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer or conservator
of the peace to do so.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/25-1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.08 ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 PLAYING ON RAILROAD OR INTERSTATE HIGHWAY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play upon or about any railroad or
interstate highway tract, depot, locomotive, or car within the village, or to
climb upon or jump from any car or train of cars or from one car to another
while the same may be in motion. (Railroad employees in the discharge of their
duties excepted.)
(Prior Code, § 27-1-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by an act or neglect, to encourage,
aid, or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities;
and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver’s
license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to
operate a motor vehicle during the period that such driver’s license is
suspended, and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit
a child to operate a motor vehicle without a license.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, wilfully, maliciously, intentionally,
or unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any
neighborhood or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or
unusual noises or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or
for any person to threaten, quarrel, fight, or provoke an assault or battery or
curse or swear or utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the
presence of another.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.12 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT IN A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 ESCAPE; AID IN.
   It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or shall abet or
encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or
other person legally having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere
with any officer or other person so legally having him or her in charge, or
shall in any manner aid, abet, or encourage the rescue or the attempt to escape
from any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to supply
any such person with any weapon or with any implement or means whereby an
escape might be affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs, or other
article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-15) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-7
§ 130.14 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-6(c)
§ 130.15 EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALK OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk
or upon the floor of any public building or room used for public assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares,
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares, or merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the village without having
obtained permission in writing from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-4
§ 130.18 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall, within the village, carry or wear under his or her clothes,
or concealed about his or her person, any pistol or colt, or sling-shot, or
cross knuckles or knuckles of lead, brass, or other metal, or any switch blade
knife or razor, bowie knife, or dirk knife, or dirk, or dagger, or any other
dangerous or deadly weapon. This section does not apply to the officers or
members of the Police Department, nor to any sheriff or deputy sheriff or
constable of this state, nor to any United States Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall, on any village street, fly any kite or play any game of
ball or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or
annoy any person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly and without lawful
authority, alter, destroy, deface, remove, or conceal any public notice, posted
according to law, during the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-9
§ 130.21 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow, or air gun in
the village or so that the bullet, arrow, missile, or projectile therefrom
enters the village without written permission from the Mayor, provided that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to
discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her duty, nor to any citizen
to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her personal property.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-23) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 BLASTING IN VILLAGE.
   No person shall, by himself or herself, or his or her agent or employee,
fire off any blast, unless the blast is properly guarded so as to prevent
accident to person or property or open any stone quarry within the village
without the permission of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-24) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   No person shall have, keep, possess, or store, at or in any place
within the village, any nitroglycerin, dynamite, or giant powder, or any form
or combination of any of them.
   (B)   No person shall keep, possess, or store any gun or blasting powder, or
any gun or explosive cotton, at or in any one place in the village, in any
quantity exceeding five pounds, except a dealer thereof, or quarryman of rock,
or miner, who may keep 25 pounds at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-25) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
§ 130.24 THROWING ROCKS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, in the village, throw or cast any stone or any other
missile upon or at any building, tree, or other public or private property, or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley, or public place.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-26) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village, nor shall, without being duly authorized by the
village, exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or
powers of a village officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist, or otherwise
interfere with any village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her
office, or attempt to prevent any such officer from arresting any person,
either by force or by giving notice to such person, or attempt to rescue from
such officer any person in his or her custody, or impersonate any of the
members of the police force of this village, or maliciously, or with the
intention of deceiving any person, wear the uniform of, or a uniform similar to
that worn by the members of the Police Department, or use any of the signs,
signals, or devices adopted and used by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-27) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-5.1
§ 130.26 SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   The practice of riding or propelling oneself upon a device commonly known or
referred to as a skateboard, roller skates, or blade skates is hereby
prohibited upon any publicly owned property within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-28) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deface, destroy, or in any way injure any public property or
any other apparatus of the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-29) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 FORTUNE TELLING AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, in the village, pursue the calling of a fortune teller, or
practice fortune telling, soothsaying, or the like, and receive payment in any
manner therefor.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use, or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him or her for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.30 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise, or encourage any person in the commission of any of the acts
mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-32) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.31 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print, or nail
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind on any
curbstone, flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door, or gate
without the consent in writing of the owner of the wall, door, or gate;
provided, however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper
village and county officials of election signs, polling place signs, and other
signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except
they may not be attached to a tree.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-33) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person shall, in the village, appear in any public place in a state of
nudity, or in an indecent or lewd dress, or shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person or of another, or be guilty of any indecent or lewd act or
behavior.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-34) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.33 PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who performs, offers, or agrees to perform any of the sexual
acts, as set forth and defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14 and 5/12-12, for money
commits an act of prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-35) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.34 SOLICITING OR PATRONIZING A PROSTITUTE.
   (A)   Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting
for a prostitute:
      (1)   Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution;
      (2)   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      (3)   Directs another to a place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-36)
   (B)   Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not
his or her spouse commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
      (1)   Engages in an act of sexual penetration, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/
12-12, with a prostitute; or
      (2)   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with intent to engage
in an act of sexual penetration, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-12.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-37) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-15
§ 130.35 INTIMIDATION.
   A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause another to perform
or to omit the performance of any act, he or she communicates to another a
threat to perform without lawful authority any of the following acts:
   (A)   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
on property;
   (B)   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint;
   (C)   Commit any criminal offense;
   (D)   Accuse any person of an offense;
   (E)   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule;
   (F)   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   (G)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott, or other collective action.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-38) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-6
§ 130.36 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest, of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which
may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch. The owner,
lessee, or manager of such place, who knowingly permits such abandoned or
discarded refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest to remain there in such condition,
shall be guilty of violating this code.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-39) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 505/1
§ 130.37 INJURING UTILITY WIRES AND POLES.
   It shall be unlawful to wilfully, maliciously, or negligently break, deface,
injure, or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post, or wire, or any
electric light post, pole, or electric conductor, wire, or lamp or any other
thing connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas
main, pipe, or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or
connected therewith, or with any of them.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-40) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person commits an offense when that person knowingly resists or obstructs
the performance of any authorized act of one known to the person to be a peace
officer within that peace officer’s official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-41) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-1
§ 130.39 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails, upon command, to reasonably aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing commission by another of any offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-42) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-8
§ 130.40 STREET SIGNS; MOLESTATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage, or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-43) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within this
municipality upon either public or private property.
   (B)   Without constituting any limitation upon division (A) above, any of
the following acts by any person shall be deemed included among those that
constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of said division (A)
above, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this chapter,
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, be as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a visible notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally, or in
writing, by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a visible notice
posted or exhibited at the main entrance to said premises, or at any point of
approach or entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given
orally, or in writing by any owner, or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave, by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft, or
watercraft, after being requested to by the person having such right.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-44) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.42 SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   No minor under 18 years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette, smokeless
tobacco, or tobacco in any of its forms. No person shall sell, buy for,
distribute samples of, or furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco, or
tobacco in any of its forms, to any minor under 18 years of age. For the
purpose of this section, SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any tobacco products that are
suitable for dipping or chewing.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-45) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 675/1
§ 130.43 SMOKELESS TOBACCO.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMOKELESS TOBACCO. Any finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf tobacco that
is intended to be placed in the oral cavity.
   (B)   Sale. No person shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person
under the age of 18.
   (C)   Distribution. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed to
any person under the age of 18, without charge or at a nominal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-46) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 680/1 et seq.
§ 130.44 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-12; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE, for the purpose of this section, means any place where
the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-47) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 ASSAULT.
   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she
engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving
a battery.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-48) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.46 BATTERY.
   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly, without
legal justification and by any means:
   (A)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   (B)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-49) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47 CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT.
   A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as a legal
or equitable owner or as a managing agent or otherwise, he or she recklessly
permits the physical condition or facilities of the residential real estate to
become or remain in any condition which endangers the health or safety of any
person.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-50) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-5.1
§ 130.48 THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY.
   A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property commits theft
when he or she:
   (A)   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of, or
learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner;
   (B)   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner; and
   (C)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-51) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-2
§ 130.49 THEFT.
   A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains, by deception, control over property of the owner;
   (C)   Obtains, by threat, control over property of the owner;
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her to
believe that the property was stolen and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner of such use or
benefit.
   (E)   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody or any law
enforcement agency which is explicitly represented to him or her by any law
enforcement officer or any individual acting on behalf of a law enforcement
agency as being stolen.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-52) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-1
§ 130.50 THEFT OF LABOR OR SERVICES OR USE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits theft when he or she obtains the temporary use of
property, labor, or services of another which are available only for hire, by
means of threat or deception or knowing that such use is without the consent of
the person providing the property, labor, or services.
   (B)   A person commits theft when, after renting or leasing a motor vehicle,
obtaining a motor vehicle through a driveaway service mode of transportation or
renting or leasing any other type of personal property exceeding $500 in value,
under an agreement in writing, which provides for the return of the vehicle or
other personal property to a particular place at a particular time, he or she,
without good cause, wilfully fails to return the vehicle or other personal
property to that place within the time specified, and is thereafter served with
a written demand mailed to the last known address, made by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to return such vehicle or other personal property
within three days from the mailing of the written demand, and who, without good
cause, wilfully fails to return the vehicle or any other personal property to
any place of business of the lessor within such period.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-53) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-3
§ 130.51 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   Whoever wilfully and maliciously cuts, injures, damages, tampers with or
destroys, or defaces any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private fire fighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining
to such equipment, or intentionally opens any fire hydrant without proper
authority, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-54) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1.1
§ 130.52 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of the village, or fire
protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is not reasonable grounds for believing that such fire
exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb or explosive
is concealed in such place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer, or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds
for believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-55) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.53 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this code:
   (A)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-56) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.54 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor
by a Circuit Court of the state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
      MINOR. A person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 19 years of
age.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-2)
   (B)   Presumptions. The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence
of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental
responsibility and said minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts
described in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3) below with the knowledge and
permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this section, upon the
occurrence of the events described in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3)
below.
      (1)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law, or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law,
or statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property.
      (2)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return requested, or by
personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
Police Department of the village following said adjudication or nonjudicial
sanction.
      (3)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in division (B)(2) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in
violation of any ordinance, law, or statute as described in division (B)(1)
above, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law,
or statute as described in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-3)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of §
130.54 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-3)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Undermining
   
150.02   Open doors
   
150.03   Vaults
   
150.04   Stairway
   
150.05   Closing street
   
150.06   Signs across street
   
150.07   Posts or awnings
   
150.08   Vehicles on sidewalk
   
150.09   Culverts
   
150.10   Obstructing street and sidewalk
   
150.11   Water from eaves
   
150.12   Building materials in street
   
150.13   Signs on poles
Trees and Shrubbery
   
150.25   Planting
   
150.26   Injuring
   
150.27   Trimming
   
150.28   Interference with wires
   
150.29   Decayed trees and shrubbery
Excavations in Streets
   
150.40   Application for permit
   
150.41   Bond
   
150.42   Fitness of applicant
   
150.43   Issuance of permit
   
150.44   Annual bond
Sidewalks
   
150.55   Grade
   
150.56   Notification of owner
   
150.57   Refusal by owner
   
150.58   Permit
   
150.59   Street and Alley Committee
   
150.60   Request for new sidewalks
   
150.61   Existing sidewalks
   
150.62   Notification of repairs
   
150.63   Payment by owner
   
150.64   Interest
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner any street, or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open, or allow to remain open, any door, or the grating of
any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any street,
alley, or sidewalk in the village, for any purpose, except the taking in and
removing goods, and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall warn
passersby of the danger.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 VAULTS.
   No person shall dig or cause to be dug, in any street or sidewalk, any vault
without covering the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent persons,
animals, and vehicles from falling into the excavation. Such vault shall be in
conformance with other code provisions.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 STAIRWAY.
   Steps or stairway leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs towards the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 CLOSING STREET.
   (A)   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street,
alley, or public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley, or
public place temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating
that the street, alley, or public place is closed by order of the Mayor.
   (B)   Whenever such signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon,
or cross such street, alley, or public place, or in any manner, destroy,
deface, or remove any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement, or banner over any or across
any street or alley in the village unless he or she has written approval of the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 150.07 POSTS OR AWNINGS.
   No person shall, in the village, without written consent from the Village
Board, set up or cause to be set up any awning, or other posts, on any street,
alley, or sidewalk, or any sign, sign box, or fixture which shall extend over
or upon any sidewalk, or suspend any merchandise or other articles in front of
any house more than two feet from the wall thereof, and so that any part of the
same shall be less than eight feet above the ground or pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-8
§ 150.08 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall operate any bicycle, wagon, sled, or vehicle over any
sidewalk, except in crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.09 CULVERTS.
   Any person desiring a driveway-type culvert shall secure permission from the
working supervisor. After securing the proper size, location, depth, and method
of installation information from the village, the person shall purchase the
approved culvert and install the culvert subject to inspection when completed.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.10 OBSTRUCTING STREET AND SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley, or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials, or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this chapter. This
includes yard sales or any other sales unless authorized by the Mayor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police to exercise a vigilant supervision
of such places, and to notify any person found making such deposit, or
responsible for the same, to remove the offending matter at once.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 150.11 WATER FROM EAVES.
   No person owning or occupying any building in the village shall cause pipes
conducting the water from the eaves of the building to be so constructed as to
spread the water over the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.12 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   The working supervisor may move any obstruction on any street or sidewalk of
the village, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person responsible
therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable length of time after
being notified. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving
any lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street, or alley
adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed. Such person shall, at night, keep a red light on such material.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.13 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint, or fasten or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted, or fastened any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and fire alarm
pole, or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk, street,
alley, or public grounds, or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-14
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
§ 150.25 PLANTING.
   Trees and shrubbery placed along any street within the village shall be
planted on a line at least seven feet inside the property line abutting street
or alley. Any person who plants any tree or shrubbery on any street, contrary
to the provisions of this section, shall be subject to the penalty provided for
violation of this code, and for each tree or shrub so planted. Such tree or
shrubbery may be cut down and removed by the village or its agent at the
expense of the person.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.26 INJURING.
   No person, telephone company, or electric company shall cut, fell, injure,
or remove or cause to be cut, any limb or limbs of any tree or shrubbery on any
street, sidewalk, or public grounds of the village, except by the authority of
the working supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.27 TRIMMING.
   Trees and shrubbery along any street of the village shall have the branches
thereof cut and trimmed up to at least ten feet above the ground, so that the
same shall not inconvenience the passage of persons or vehicles along any
street or sidewalk, or obstruct the light of street lamps.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.28 INTERFERENCE WITH WIRES.
   If a tree or shrub is permitted by the owner or occupant of any premises in
the village to grow in such a manner as to interfere with any electric or
telephone main feed wires, the working supervisor shall order such owner to
trim such trees or shrubbery specified and in such a manner as to remove the
obstruction or interference. If any person so notified fails to comply with
such notice, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided for violation
of this code, and the working supervisor shall cause such trees to be trimmed,
and the costs thereof may be recovered by suit against such person.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.29 DECAYED TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   Any person owning a parcel of land whereon is situated a decayed or dead
tree or shrubbery which extends over any sidewalk or street shall remove such
dead or decayed tree or shrubbery or parts thereof in such a manner that danger
to the public is eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS
§ 150.40 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to lay, lower, change, repair, remove any pipes, or to
make connections therewith, or to make any change, improvement, fill,
excavation, or alterations within or upon any street, sidewalk, public square,
or alley, shall apply to the Mayor for a permit to do so. The applicant shall
describe the portion of the street, sidewalk, public square, or alley where
such work is to be done, and the nature and character of the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
§ 150.41 BOND.
   The applicant shall also give bond, conditioned that he or she will suitably
guard and protect any excavation or obstruction and defend, save, keep
harmless, and indemnify the village of any and all actions, suits, costs,
damages, and expenses including attorneys’ fees which shall or may come to it
for or on account of any injuries or damages received or sustained by any
person by or from acts or omissions of the applicant or his or her employees in
doing such work; and that he or she will restore such street, sidewalk, public
square, or alley to its former condition, and complete such work as speedily as
possible, and when completed, notify the Village Clerk of such fact so that the
working supervisor may see that the same has been promptly and properly
restored to its former condition, and guaranteeing that such work so
reconstructed, refilling, and restoration so made is made in a good and
workmanlike manner, and of good and proper material, and that the same shall
not deteriorate, cave in, or require repair or reconstruction for a period of
at least two years, from the time of such work; and further, the Village Clerk,
for use of the village, shall make an account of any and all costs and expenses
to which the village may have been put, paid, or become liable for in
refilling, repairing, and replacing the work in the surface or pavement of such
street, sidewalk, public square or alley, if the work shall be done by the
village, or it becomes necessary for the village to do so, the cost in all the
cases to be certified by the working supervisor. Such bond, with sureties,
shall be approved by the Village Trustees in the penal sum of $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 31-3-2)
§ 150.42 FITNESS OF APPLICANT.
   No permit shall be granted to any person who is, in any respect, delinquent
in the payment of the monies herein provided for, or who, in the judgment of
the Village Trustees, is unfit or unqualified to engage in the class of work
herein provided for.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-3)
§ 150.43 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon application being made and the filling of such bond, the working
supervisor, after having been directed by the Village Board to do so, shall
issue a permit to the applicant, stating therein all the privileges thereby
granted. If the Mayor deems it to be an emergency situation, he or she shall
have the authority to grant said permit.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-4)
§ 150.44 ANNUAL BOND.
   Every applicant, including public utility companies, may be required by the
Mayor of the village to post a bond in the sum of $500, wherein the applicant
shall be liable unto the village for the payment of $500, the condition of the
bond being that if the applicant repairs and restores the surface of the public
street to the same condition as it was prior to the time of the excavation,
tunnel, or ditch was made, then the bond shall be void, otherwise, to remain in
full force and effect. The Mayor shall determine whether or not such bond is
required from the several applicants, based upon §
150.42.
(Prior Code, § 31-3-5)
SIDEWALKS
§ 150.55 GRADE.
   No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade of this
village, and in all cases where no grade is established, any person building a
sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the committee of
the Village Board for the location in which the same is to be built.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.56 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   In all cases where a sidewalk has been ordered to be laid by the Village
Board, the working supervisor shall notify the owner of the property, if known,
describing in the notice the property along which such walk is to be laid, the
material to be used and the width and length of the walk, and the time in which
the same must be built.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.57 REFUSAL BY OWNER.
   Whenever any walk has been ordered as provided in the preceding section of
this subchapter, the owner of the property, along which said walk is ordered,
refuses or neglects to build the same, as notified, or if the owner thereof is
unknown, then an ordinance shall be passed and proceeding had for the
construction of the walk in accordance with the statutes in such case made and
provided.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 150.58 PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, partnership, or individual to
build, lay, or construct any sidewalk along any property in the village, or
along any of the streets, alleys, or public highways thereon, without first
obtaining a permit from the Village Board to do so.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.59 STREET AND ALLEY COMMITTEE.
   All such structures or improvements made in the village shall be made under
and through the cooperation and direction of the Street Committee of the
village, duly authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Board thereof.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.60 REQUEST FOR NEW SIDEWALKS.
   Any owner of property who desires new sidewalks constructed upon village
property adjoining his or her premises, and who agrees to pay 50% of the cost
of the labor and material for the construction of the sidewalks, shall file a
written request with the Village Clerk, giving the location of the property and
the dimensions of the sidewalks requested. Upon approval of the request by the
Village Board, and the payment of one-half of the cost of construction, the
village shall construct the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-6)
§ 150.61 EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   Where a sidewalk has been constructed and is now in existence, or may
hereafter be constructed, and such sidewalk shall, from any cause whatsoever,
be in need of replacement or repair, such replacement or repairs shall be made
by the property owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.62 NOTIFICATION OF REPAIRS.
   In the event that the Village Board finds and determines that any existing
sidewalks shall be in need of replacement or repairs, the Board shall order and
direct the Village Clerk to notify such property owner of such fact and the
nature of the replacement or repairs to be made, requiring the property owner
to make such replacement or repairs within 20 days of the mailing of such
notice to such property owner. In the event that the replacement or repair is
not made by the property owner in the time aforesaid, then and in that event,
such replacement or repairs may be made by the village at the expense of such
property owner, notice of which fact shall be included in the notice to the
property owner.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 150.63 PAYMENT BY OWNER.
   Any such replacement or repair of any sidewalk as provided for herein, made
or constructed in this village, shall be done under the supervision of the
Street Committee. Upon the completion of such replacement or repairs, the
Chairperson of the Street Committee shall file a detailed statement of the cost
thereof with the Village Clerk, and the Village Clerk shall, in turn, mail a
copy thereof to the property owner and demand payment thereof. If the property
owner does not pay the amount of such statement within 20 days of the mailing
of such statement as aforesaid, suit may be instituted against such property
owner to recover the cost thereof, or the lien therefor may be foreclosed.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-10)
§ 150.64 INTEREST.
   Any amounts expended by the Village in making the repairs or replacements
herein provided shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum, and any such
amount thus advanced together with the interest thereon, shall constitute a
lien against the property abutting such sidewalk thus repaired or replaced.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-11)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Building and home construction guidelines
   
151.002   Plumbing Code
Housing Code
   
151.015   Legislative finding of fact
   
151.016   Purpose
   
151.017   Applicability to all dwellings
   
151.018   Applicability to annexed areas
   
151.019   Conflict with other ordinances
   
151.020   Conflicts of permits and licenses
   
151.021   Definitions
   
151.022   Standards for exterior property areas
   
151.023   Standards for maintenance of dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.024   Standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
151.025   Standards for light, ventilation, and heating
   
151.026   Standards for space, use, and location
   
151.027   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
151.028   Standards for rooming houses
   
151.029   Enforcement
   
151.030   Designation of unfit dwelling units
   
151.031   Rule making; administrative relationships
Dangerous Buildings
   
151.045   Definition
   
151.046   Nuisance
   
151.047   Abatement
   
151.048   Buildings to be torn down
   
151.049   Unknown owners
   
151.050   Village abatement
   
151.051   Inspections
Nuisance Buildings
   
151.065   Condition
   
151.066   Time limit
   
151.067   Unsafe conditions
   
151.068   Manner of correcting defects
   
151.069   Notification to owner
   
151.070   Declared nuisance
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 BUILDING AND HOME CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES.
   Within the corporate village limits, any building and/or structure which may
be erected shall conform to the following guidelines regarding minimum lot
sizes, setbacks, and principal permitted uses.
Building Type Principal Permitted Use Minimum Setbacks Minimum Lot Width
                                      Front Side Rear
Building Type     Principal Permitted    Minimum Setbacks     Minimum Lot Width
                  Use                    Front  Side   Rear
Commercial        Retailing wholesale    10 ft. 5 ft.  10 ft. 30 ft.
                  services
General family    Single-family,         20 ft. 5 ft.  20 ft. 50 ft.
residential       multiple-family homes
Industrial        Assembly manufacturing 10 ft. 5 ft.  10 ft. 50 ft.
Mobile homes      In accordance with     15 ft. 15 ft. 15 ft. 75 ft.
                  Ordinance #23-1-1
Public or general Schools, village, and  20 ft. 5 ft.  20 ft. 50 ft.
government        the like
Single-family     Single-family homes    20 ft. 5 ft.  20 ft. 50 ft.
residential
 
(Ord. 2001-4, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 151.002 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   The State Plumbing Code, 1959 Edition, and all subsequent amendments
thereto, published by the State Department of Public Health Division of
Sanitary Engineering, is hereby adopted by reference, pursuant to authority of
24 Ill. Rev. Stat. 10-3 and 1231 through 1247, inclusive; provided, that if any
of the provisions of the State Plumbing Code are in conflict with state law or
any ordinance of the village, the state law or ordinance shall prevail. At
least three copies of such State Plumbing Code will be found on file in the
office of the Village Clerk and are available for public use, inspection, and
examination.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-1)
   (B)   No work costing more than $25 shall be done on the plumbing, private
sewer, or sewer drainage of any building until the application and plans for
the same have been approved by the Sanitary Inspector, and a permit for such
work issued by the Village Clerk. The fee for such plumbing permit shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Sewer permit: $1.50;
      (2)   Plumbing permit: $1.50; and
      (3)   Combination sewer and plumbing permit: $2.50.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-2)
Penalty, see §
151.999
HOUSING CODE
§ 151.015 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared to exist in the village premises used
for human habitation which are, or may become in the near future, substandard
with respect to structure, equipment, or maintenance, and further that such
conditions together with inadequate provisions for light and air, insufficient
protection against the hazards, lack of proper heating, unsanitary conditions,
and over-crowding constitute a menace to the health, safety, moral, welfare,
and reasonable comfort of its citizens.
   (B)   It is further found and declared that the existence of such
conditions, factors, or characteristics has created and will continue to
create, slum and blighted areas requiring large scale clearance, and further
that, in the absence of corrective measure, such areas will experience a
deterioration of social values, a curtailment of investment and tax revenues,
and an impairment of economic values. It is further found and declared that the
establishment and maintenance of minimum housing standards are essential to the
prevention of blight and decay, and the safeguarding of public health, safety,
morals, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-1)
§ 151.016 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety,
morals, and welfare of the people of the village, by establishing minimum
standards, governing the condition, occupancy, and maintenance of dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units, and premises; establishing
minimum standards governing utilities, facilities, and other physical
components and conditions essential to make dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units and premises safe, sanitary, and fit for human
habitation, fixing certain responsibilities and duties of the owners,
operators, agents, and occupants of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses,
and rooming units unfit for human habitation, and fixing penalties for the
violations declared to be remedial and essential to the public interest, and it
is intended that this subchapter be liberally construed to effectuate the
purposes stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-2)
§ 151.017 APPLICABILITY TO ALL DWELLINGS.
   Every portion of building or premises, used or intended to be used for any
dwelling purpose, except temporary housing, shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter, irrespective of when such building shall have been
constructed, altered, or repaired, and irrespective of any permits or licenses
which shall have been issued for the construction or repair of the building, or
for the installation or repair of equipment or of the facilities prior to the
effective date of this subchapter, except as provided in §
151.018. This subchapter establishes minimum standards otherwise established
for the construction, repair, alteration, or use of building facilities or
equipment except as provided in §
151.019.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-3)
§ 151.018 APPLICABILITY TO ANNEXED AREAS.
   In those areas annexed to the village, after the effective date of this
subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter shall not be applicable in the
areas until the lapse of a period of one year after the effective date.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-4)
§ 151.019 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, electrical, plumbing, fire, safety,
health, or heating code, or regulation, in the village, the provision which
established the highest standard shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-5)
§ 151.020 CONFLICTS OF PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   All departments and officials of the village who have the duty or authority
to issue permits or licenses in regard to the construction, installation, or
repair of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units, equipment,
or facilities shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter, and no such
permit or license shall be issued if such would be in conflict with this
subchapter, except as provided in §
151.019.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-6)
§ 151.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, the use of which is incidental to that of
the main building, and which is attached thereto or located on the same
premises.
   APPROVED. Approved by the authority designated by this subchapter as the
Housing Code Enforcement Authority.
   BASEMENT. A story of a building or structure having one-half or more of its
clear height below grade.
   BATHROOM. Enclosed space containing one or more bathtubs, showers, or both,
and which may also include toilets, lavatories, or fixtures serving similar
purposes.
   BUILDING. A combination of any materials, whether portable or fixed, having
a roof to form a structure affording shelter for persons, animals, or property.
The word BUILDING shall be construed, when used herein, as though followed by
the words “or part or parts thereof” unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary housing as
defined herein shall not be regarded as a DWELLING. This definition shall not
be construed to include hotels, motels, and rooming houses.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. Open space on the premises and vacant open space in
adjacent premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborages, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or
trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the proper authorities.
   FLOOR AREA. The total area of a habitable space.
   GARBAGE. The animal, vegetable, and mineral waste products resulting from
the handling, storage, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, or
anything that may decompose and become offensive or dangerous to health.
   GRADE. For ground level, the average of the finished ground level. In case
walls are parallel to and within five feet of a sidewalk, the above ground
level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
   HABITABLE SPACE or HABITABLE ROOM. Room or enclosed floor space used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes,
excluding bathroom, water closet, compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, or
communicating corridors, closets, or storage spaces.
   HOTEL and MOTEL. See ROOMING HOUSE.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or contiguous to a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or premises of insects, rodents, vermin, or other
pests.
   KITCHEN. Space 60 square feet or more in floor area, with a minimum width of
five feet used for cooking or preparation of food, and deemed habitable space.
   KITCHENETTES. Space less than 60 square feet in floor area, used for cooking
or preparation of food.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a multiple
dwelling, hotel, motel, or rooming house, in which dwelling units or rooming
units are let or offered for occupancy.
   OUTSIDE DESIGN TEMPERATURE. 26.4°F.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly, or severally with others, shall
have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, as OWNER or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of
the OWNER. Any such person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of the code, and of rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators, or
assigns, and also included as a firm, partnership, or corporation, its or their
successors or assigns, or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM. Pipes, fixtures, and other apparatus for supplying water
for consumption, for the conveyance of waste and drainage or for heating
system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water duly approved as satisfactory and safe for drinking by
the State Sanitary Water Board.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any buildings or
structures thereon.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewerage system operated by the village and available for
public use.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or any part of any dwelling, containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or the operator to four
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or
father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator, except that any family
occupying one rooming unit for the purpose of this definition may be one
person.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit or
intended to be used for living or sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste, materials, except garbage,
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
excelsior, rubber, leathers, tree branches, yard trimmings, paper, coke, rags,
cartons, boxes, plastics, tin cans, metals, and mineral matter, glass, and
crockery.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bath, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or the water-carried waste from any other fixture or equipment
or machine.
   STORY. The part of a building comprised between a floor and the floor or
roof next above. A mezzanine shall be considered a STORY if it exceeds 33.3% of
the roof area of the floor immediately below. A penthouse shall be considered a
STORY if it exceeds 1,000 square feet or 33.3% of the roof area. The basement
of a building used for educational occupancy shall be considered a STORY if it
is used for purposes other than storage or heating.
   STRUCTURE. Combination of any materials, whether fixed or portable, forming
a construction, including buildings. The wood STRUCTURE shall be construed as
though followed by the words, “or part or parts thereof.”
   SUPPLIED FACILITIES. Facilities paid for, furnished, or provided by or under
control of the owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utility system for more than 30
consecutive days. Any tent, trailer, or other structure occupied for more than
30 days consecutively shall meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   TOILET ROOM OR COMPARTMENT. Enclosed space containing one or more toilets,
which may also contain one or more lavatories, urinals, and other plumbing
fixtures.
   TRAILERS. Any vehicle or portable structure, whether it has wheels and a
tongue, or whether the wheels and tongue have been removed.
   TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more trailers, occupied
for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether or not a
charge is made for such accommodations.
   VENTILATION. Supply and removal of air to and from any space by natural or
mechanical means.
   VENTILATION, MECHANICAL. Ventilation by opening to outer air through
windows, skylights, doors, louvers, or stacks with wind-driven devices.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-7)
§ 151.022 STANDARDS FOR EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   The following standards shall be the basis of determination for fitness of
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Free from hazards. Exterior property areas shall be free from
conditions which might create a health, accident, or fire hazard (or might
endanger the public welfare), such as holes and excavations, sharp protrusions,
sheer embankments, inoperative or abandoned vehicles or machinery, unused
household goods or appliances, and other objects or materials. Walks, steps,
and driveways that contain holes or tripping hazards shall be filled, repaired,
or replaced as the need indicated. Open wells, cesspools, or cisterns shall be
filled or securely closed.
   (B)   Free from rubbish and garbage. Disposal of rubbish and other refuse
shall be done in accordance with all regulations of the village.
   (C)   Sewage. Sewage shall be discharged into a public sewer system or an
approved septic tank. Discharge of inadequately treated sewage shall not be
permitted upon the surface of the ground or into any natural or artificial
drainageway.
   (D)   Noxious weeds. Exterior property areas shall be kept free of weeds
which are noxious or detrimental to the public health. This includes, but is
not limited to, ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac.
   (E)   Insect and rodent harborage. Where insect, rodent, or vermin breeding
areas, harborage, or infestation exist, such sources shall be eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023 STANDARDS FOR MAINTENANCE OF DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   The following standards shall be the basis of determination for fitness of
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, and rodent-proof, shall afford privacy, and shall
be kept in good repair. The foundation elements shall adequately support the
building at all points. Floors shall be free of holes and wide cracks which
might admit rodents, or which constitute an accident hazard. Every exterior
wall is free of holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards and timbers, and any
other conditions which might admit rodents, rain, or dampness to the interior
portions of the walls, or to the interior spaces of the dwelling. Every
interior wall is free of holes and large cracks, loose plaster, and other
structural materials. The roof is tight and has no defects which admit rain.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, and rodent-proof, and shall be kept in working
condition and good repair.
   (C)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Handrails or railings shall be provided where necessary for stairs,
balconies, porches, and accessible roofs.
   (E)   Chimney and all flue and vent attachments thereto, on every structure
used for human habitation, and all other flues and vents, shall be structurally
sound, free from defects, performing the function for which they are designed
and are used. Each shall have sufficient draft to develop the rated output of
the equipment. Chimneys, flues, gas vents, and their supports shall be
structurally safe, durable, smoke-tight, and capable of withstanding the action
of flue gases.
   (F)   The floor surface of every bathroom, shower room, and toilet room or
compartment shall be constructed of or covered with a moisture-resistant finish
material.
   (G)   The interior of every structure used for human habitation shall be
maintained free from rubbish and garbage that might become a health, accident,
or fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-10) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.024 STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   The following standards shall be the basis of determination for fitness of
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewage system in
accordance with the Plumbing Code and codes of the village and the state.
   (B)   Toilet facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which
affords privacy to a person within the room and which is equipped with a flush
water closet and lavatory basin, both in good working condition and properly
connected to a water and sewerage system in accordance with the Plumbing Code
and ordinances of the village and state.
   (C)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which
affords privacy and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system in accordance with
the Plumbing Code of the village and state.
   (D)   Water supply. Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower required under the provisions of divisions (A), (B), and (C) above shall
be properly connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (E)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities which are properly installed and connected with the hot
water lines required under the provisions of division (D) above and are capable
of heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water
to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, tub, or shower at a
temperature of not less that 120°F.
   (F)   Garbage storage facilities. Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers, type, and location
of which conform to the code, rules, and regulations of the village.
   (G)   Rubbish storage facilities. Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with
adequate rubbish storage facilities, type, and location of which conform to
code, rules, and regulations of the village.
   (H)   Means of egress. Every dwelling unit shall have safe unobstructed
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by
the laws of the state and the codes of the village.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-11) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.025 STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, VENTILATION, AND HEATING.
   The following standards shall be the basis of determination for fitness of
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Window area. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area for
every habitable room shall be at least 10% of the floor area of such room.
Whenever exterior walls or other portions of structures are located less than
three feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of
the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window is a skylight-type window in the top of such room, the
total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 12.5% of the total
floor area of such room.
   (B)   Ventilation. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight which can easily be opened or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size, as required in division (A) above, except where
there is some device of a type approved by the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority.
   (C)   Bathroom ventilation. Every bathroom and water closet compartment
shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms
contained in division (B) above, except that no window or skylight shall be
required in an adequate mechanical ventilated system.
   (D)   Electric service. Where there is electric service available from power
lines not more than 300 feet from a dwelling, every habitable room of such
dwelling shall contain at least two separate floor or wall type electric
convenience outlets with one supplied wall switch controlled convenience outlet
and/or one ceiling or wall type electric light fixture. Every such outlet and
fixture shall be installed, or connected to the source of electric power in
accordance with the National Electric Code and the Electrical Code of the
village.
   (E)   Heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which
are properly installed and maintained in safe and good working condition, and
are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms,
and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a
temperature of at least 70°F, at a distance of three feet above floor level at
the outside design temperature. (Temperature based on the average low
temperature recorded for the village for as long as temperature records have
been kept.)
   (F)   Cooking facilities. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with
installed cooking facilities, or space and utility connections for such
facilities.
   (G)   Public halls and stairways. In multiple dwellings, every public hall
and stairway serving five or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at
all times. A minimum of five-foot candle of daylight or artificial illumination
shall be deemed adequate. Every public hall and stairway in structures devoted
solely to dwelling occupancy and containing not more than four dwelling units
may be supplied with conveniently located light switches, controlling an
adequate lighting system which may be turned on when needed.
   (H)   Refrigeration. In every dwelling unit where perishable foods are kept,
refrigerated space for their storage or appropriate utility connections shall
be provided. Each occupied dwelling unit where perishable foods are kept must
have electrical, gas, or ice refrigeration which will maintain an average
temperature of at least 50°F over a space of at least four cubic feet.
   (I)   Insect protection. During that portion of the year when the Housing
Code Enforcement Authority deems it necessary for protection against
mosquitoes, flies, and other insects, every door opening directly from a
dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have supplied screens and a self-closing
device, and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with
screens; provided, that such screens shall not be required during such period
in rooms deemed by the Housing Code Enforcement Authority to be located high
enough in the upper stories of buildings as to be free from such insects.
   (J)   Cellar and basement ventilation. Every basement window used for
ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents shall be supplied with a screen or such device as will effectively
prevent their entrance.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-12) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.026 STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION.
   The following standards shall be the basis for determination for fitness of
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Total floor space. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150
square feet of floor area for the first occupant thereof, and at least 100
square feet of floor area additional for every additional occupant thereof.
Floor area is to be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (B)   Sleeping rooms. Every room used for sleeping purposes by one person
shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room used for
sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet
of floor area for each person 12 years of age and over.
   (C)   Access to bathroom. No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or
more sleeping rooms shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom
or water closet intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room
can be had only by going through another sleeping room or a bathroom or water
closet compartment.
   (D)   Height requirements. At least one-half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the
floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five
feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total
floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible
occupancy thereof.
   (E)   Basement rooms. No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or
dwelling unit unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and dampness; and
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes as required in §
151.025(B), except where there is supplied some other type of device affording
adequate ventilation approved by the Housing Code Enforcement Authority.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-13) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.027 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   The following standards shall be the basis of determination for fitness and
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Maintenance of private space. Occupants of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall keep in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling,
dwelling unit, and premises thereof which they occupy and control.
   (B)   Maintenance of public space. Every owner of a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and
sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises
thereof.
   (C)   Waste disposal. Occupants of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose
of rubbish, garbage, and other matter as provided by the village codes. In
dwellings containing three or more dwelling units, adequate rubbish and garbage
containers shall be supplied by the owner.
   (D)   Extermination. Occupants of a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any rodents, vermin, or other pests
therein or on the premises. Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a building
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination, except that whenever such infestation is caused by the failure
of the owner to carry out the provisions of this subchapter as cited in §
151.022(B) and §
151.025(J), it shall be the responsibility of the owner to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter within such building, as cited above.
   (E)   Supplied facilities. Every owner of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house, and rooming unit shall be responsible for keeping supplied facilities in
proper operating condition.
   (F)   Supplied heat. Every owner or operator of a building, who permits to
be occupied any dwelling unit, or rooming unit therein under an agreement,
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof, shall supply
heat adequate to maintain therein from September 15 through May 30 of the
following year, a minimum inside temperature of 70°F at three feet above floor
level based on outside design temperature in all habitable rooms, bathrooms,
shower rooms, and toilet rooms or compartments, between the hours of 6:30 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m. and not less than 60°F between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:30
a.m. in all such rooms. The provisions of this section shall not apply where
the failure to maintain minimum requirements is caused by a general shortage of
fuel, negligent, or malicious act of the occupant, necessary repairs or
alterations, or any cause beyond the control of the owner or occupants.
   (G)   Discontinuance of utilities. No owner, operator, or occupants shall
cause any service, facility, equipment, or utility which is required to be
supplied by the provisions of this subchapter is to be removed from, or shut
off from, or discontinued for any occupied dwelling unit, except for necessary
repairs, alterations, or emergencies, or nonpayment of rent.
   (H)   Occupancy of vacant units. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or
permit to be occupied by another party any vacant dwelling or dwelling unit
unless it is in full compliance with all the provisions of this subchapter and
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-14) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.028 STANDARDS FOR ROOMING HOUSES.
   The following standards shall be the basis of determination for fitness of
dwelling purposes.
   (A)   Rooming houses. No person shall operate a rooming house or shall
occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming house except in compliance
with the provisions of every section of this subchapter, except the provisions
of §
151.024(A) through (H).
   (B)   Rooming house permit. No person shall operate a rooming house unless
he or she holds a valid rooming house permit issued by the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority in the name of the operator and for the specific dwelling
or dwelling unit. The operator shall apply to the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority for such permit which shall be issued by the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority upon inspection, and upon compliance by the operator with the
applicable provisions of this subchapter and of any rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto. Five dollars yearly for each permit. Each permit
shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the rooming house, at all
times. No such permit shall be transferable. Every person holding such a permit
shall give notice in writing to the Housing Code Enforcement Authority within
24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of
ownership, or interest in, or control of any rooming house. Every rooming
permit shall be dated May 1 and shall expire on April 30 of the year following,
unless suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Application for hearing. Any person whose application for a permit to
operate a rooming house has been denied may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the Housing Code Enforcement Authority under the
procedure provided by §
151.029(Q).
   (D)   Suspension of rooming house permit. Whenever the inspection of any
rooming house indicates that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of any provision of this subchapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall give
notice in writing to the operator of such rooming house that unless such
conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period to be
determined by the Housing Code Enforcement Authority, the operator’s rooming
house permit will be suspended. At the end of such period, the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority shall reinspect such rooming house, and if it finds that
such conditions and practices have not been corrected, it shall give notice in
writing to the operator that the latter’s permit has been suspended. Upon
receipt of such notice of suspension, such operator shall immediately cease
operation of such rooming house, and no person shall occupy for sleeping or
living purposes any rooming unit herein.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. Any person whose permit to operate a rooming
house has been suspended, or who has received notice from the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority that his or her permit is to be suspended unless existing
conditions or practices at his rooming house are corrected, may request and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority, under the procedure provided by §
151.029(Q). Provided that if no petition for such hearing is filed within ten
days following the day on which such permit was suspended, such permit shall be
deemed to have been automatically revoked.
   (F)   Bathing and toilet facilities. At least one flush water closet,
lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly connected to a sewer and water
system in accordance with the Plumbing Code and ordinances of the village and
state, and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each eight persons
or fraction thereof, residing within a rooming house, including members of the
operator’s family wherever they share the use of said facilities. Provided that
a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush urinals may be
substituted for not more than one-half of the required number of water closets.
All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as to be reasonably
accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons sharing such
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot water at all times. No such facilities shall be located in a basement
except by written approval of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority.
   (G)   Rooming unit. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person
shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by more than one shall contain at least 50 square feet of
floor space for each occupant thereof.
   (H)   Means of egress. Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by
the laws of the state and village.
   (I)   Maintenance. The owner or operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and the maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming
house, and the operator shall be further responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of the entire premises where the entire structure or building is
leased or occupied by the operator.
   (J)   Hotels. Every provision of the code which applies to rooming houses
shall also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be
found in conflict with the laws of the state or with the lawful regulations of
any state board or agency.
   (K)   Motels. Every provision of the code which applies to rooming houses
shall apply to motels, except to the extent that any such provision may be
found in conflict with the laws of the state or with the lawful regulations of
any state board or agency.
   (L)   Trailers. Every provision of this code which applies to rooming houses
shall apply to trailers, except that for the purposes of occupancy, the sole
determining standard shall be 150 square feet of floor space for one person and
100 square feet for every additional person.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-15) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.029 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Housing surveys. The Housing Code Enforcement Authority is authorized
to make surveys in any area of the village to determine the general condition
of structure used for human habitation, the extent of deterioration, lack of
facilities and maintenance, unsafe and unsanitary conditions, the extent of
overcrowding, and land use.
   (B)   Housing Code Enforcement Authority. The Housing Code Enforcement
Authority is the agency charged with the administration, interpretation, and
enforcement of the several actions of this Code and shall be composed of the
following officials of the village:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   Public Works Supervisor;
      (3)   Fire Chief;
      (4)   Police Chief; and
      (5)   Village Clerk.
   (C)   Inspection of dwelling; authority. The Housing Code Enforcement
Authority or any of the members or authorized personnel shall be authorized to
make inspections to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming houses, rooming units, and premises in order to safeguard the health
and safety, morals, and welfare of the public. The Housing Code Enforcement
Authority and its members shall be authorized to enter any dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or premises at any reasonable time during daylight
hours, or at such time as may be necessary in an emergency, for the purposes of
performing his or her duties under this subchapter. Inspections herein
authorized shall be limited to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Access to dwellings. The owner, occupant, agent, or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or premises shall give
personnel authorized in division (C) above access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, rooming unit, and premises for the purpose of such
inspection at any reasonable time during daylight hours, or at such time as may
be necessary in an emergency.
   (E)   Identification of inspectors. Each member of the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority shall be supplied with official identification and shall
exhibit such identification when entering any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house unit, or premises.
   (F)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Housing Code Enforcement Authority
or any of its members determines that there has been a violation of any
provisions of the code, or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he
or she shall give notice of such violation to the person or persons responsible
for such violation. Such notice shall be in writing and shall specify the
alleged violation and shall provide a reasonable time for compliance, said time
to be not more than 90 days, and shall be served upon the owner, agent,
operator, or occupant as the case may require. Such notice shall be deemed
valid if served upon him or her personally, or if a copy thereof is sent by
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address or such
person, or if these steps fail, then a copy may be posted in a conspicuous
place in or about the building affected by the notice, or notice given by such
other method authorized by the laws of the state. Such notice shall inform the
person to whom it is directed of his or her right to apply for a hearing before
the Housing Code Enforcement Authority as provided in division (Q) below. Such
notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and with rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (G)   Final order. Any notice of violation provided for in this division (G)
above shall automatically become a final order if written request for a hearing
is not filed in the office of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority within ten
days after receipt of the notice. A copy of the order shall be served as
provided for in this division (G).
   (H)   Referral of violations. Whenever it is determined that the condition
of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or premises is in
violation of any other applicable code which is not provided for by this
subchapter, or which is provided for by a higher standard of such law, code,
ordinance, or regulation as provided in §
151.019, such condition or violation shall be referred to the appropriate
authority.
   (I)   Power to act in emergencies. Whenever the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority, at any stage of the proceedings instituted under the provisions of
this subchapter, finds that a violation of this subchapter exists which in its
opinion, requires immediate action to abate a direct hazard, or immediate
danger to the health, safety, morals, or welfare of the occupants of a building
or of the public, it may, without prior notice or hearing, issue an order
citing the violation and directing that such action be taken as is necessary to
remove or abate the hazard or danger. Such order may include an order to vacate
as provided in §
151.030(C). Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, such an
order shall be effective immediately upon service and shall be complied with
immediately or as otherwise provided.
   (J)   Agency to abate hazards in emergencies. Whenever any violation of this
subchapter which, in the opinion of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority,
causes direct hazard or immediate danger to the health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the occupants of a building, or the public has not been corrected in
the time specified by the order issued under division (I) above, the Housing
Code Enforcement Authority may take such direct action as is necessary to abate
the hazard or danger. Expenses incurred in the execution of such orders shall
be recovered as provided in §
151.030(J).
   (K)   Demolition as compliance. Any owner of a building, receiving a notice
of violation stating that such building does not comply with the provisions of
this subchapter may demolish such building, and such action shall be deemed
compliance.
   (L)   Reinspection. At the end of the period specified in the notice of
violation, or any extension thereof, it shall be the duty of the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority to make a reinspection of the dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or premises, and if compliance has not been
established, appropriate legal action shall be instituted as specified in §
151.030(C) and (G), provided that additional notices of violations are not
required.
   (M)   Extension of compliance time. The Housing Code Enforcement Authority
may extend the compliance time specified in any notice or order issued under
the provisions of this subchapter, where there is evidence of intent to comply
within the period specified provided that reasonable conditions exist which
prevent immediate compliance.
   (N)   Recording of notices. Whenever a notice or order has been issued for
any infraction of this subchapter, the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall
file a copy of such notice or order in the office of the Village Clerk. Such
recording shall constitute appropriate information of such notice or order to
any subsequent purchaser, transferee, grantee, mortgagee, or lessee of the
property affected thereby.
   (O)   Transfer of ownership. No owner of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or premises, upon whom any notice, or order
pursuant to this subchapter has been served shall sell, transfer, grant,
mortgage, lease, or otherwise dispose thereof, such property to another until
compliance of the provisions of such notice or order has been secured, or until
such owner shall furnish to the purchaser, transferee, and grantee, mortgagee,
or lessee, a true copy of such notice or order and, at the same time, give
adequate notification to the Housing Code Enforcement Authority and supply the
name and address of such person, persons, or firm to whom the sale, transfer,
grant, mortgage, or lease and sale of lease is consummated.
   (P)   Records and searches. All records of the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority shall be public. Upon request, the Housing Code Enforcement Authority
shall be required to make a search and issue a certificate of any of its
records, including violations, and shall have the power to charge and collect
reasonable fees for such searches or certificates.
   (Q)   Request for hearing. Any person affected by any notice of violation,
issued in connection with the enforcement of any provisions of this subchapter,
or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be
granted a hearing before the Housing Code Enforcement Authority, provided that
such person shall file, in the office of the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority, a written request for such hearing, setting forth a brief statement
of the grounds therefor, designating the person and his or her address upon
whom orders may be served and setting forth the reasons why such notice of
violation should be modified or withdrawn. If this request is filed within ten
days after the service of notice of violation, compliance with such notice
shall not be required while the hearing is pending.
   (R)   Hearing. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing as provided in
division (Q) above, the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall set a time and
a place for such hearing and shall give the applicant at least ten days’
written notice thereof. Such hearing shall commence not later than 30 days
after the date on which the request was filed; however, hearings may be
postponed beyond such 30-day period for good and sufficient reasons. At such
hearing, the applicant or his or her representative shall be given an
opportunity to show cause why such notice of violation should be modified or
withdrawn.
   (S)   Quorum. Three members of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall
constitute a quorum at hearings.
   (T)   Finding of hearing. After a hearing held in accordance with divisions
(Q) and (R) above, and on consideration of the evidence presented, the Housing
Code Enforcement Authority shall sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice. If
the notice or violation is sustained or modified, such decision shall be deemed
a final order and shall be served as provided in division (F) above on the
person or persons whom the head of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall
find to be responsible for the violations. Where there are practical
difficulties or unreasonable hardships in the literal enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter, the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall
have the power to authorize a variance from the provisions of this subchapter,
provided that the intent of the subchapter shall be observed with respect to
the safeguarding of public health, safety, morals, or welfare.
   (U)   Record of hearings. The Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall keep
a transcript of testimony and a copy of every relevant notice or order, the
request for a hearing, entries of appearances, findings of fact, and the final
determination, and such record shall be maintained as a public record.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-16) (Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 151.030 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Unfit dwelling units. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house,
rooming unit, or premises, having any of the defects found in divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(4) below may be designated by the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority as unfit for human habitation, and may be so placarded, if:
      (1)   The structure lacks illumination, ventilation, sanitation, heat, or
other facilities adequate to protect the health and safety of the occupants or
the public;
      (2)   The structure is damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin-infested, in such a manner as to create a serious hazard to the
health and safety of the occupants or the public;
      (3)   The structure, because of the location, general conditions, state
of the premises, or number of occupants, is so unsanitary, unsafe, overcrowded,
or otherwise detrimental to health and safety that it creates a serious hazard
for the public; or
      (4)   The structure, because of the failure of the owner or occupant to
comply with such notices or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter, is unfit
for human habitation.
   (B)   Notice of intent to vacate. Whenever the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority determines that a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming
unit is unfit for human habitation as provided in division (A) above, it shall
include such findings within the notice of violation provided for in §
151.029(F), and it shall also include a statement of its intent to vacate and
placard the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit if
compliance with the provisions of the notice of violation has not been secured.
   (C)   Order to vacate. Whenever a notice of violation, as provided in
division (B) above, has not been complied with, or where §
151.029(Q) has not been invoked, the Housing Code Enforcement Authority may
order the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit to be
vacated. A copy of such notice to vacate shall be served on the owner, agent,
operator, and the occupant as provided in §
151.020(F).
   (D)   Vacating an unfit dwelling. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house, rooming unit, designated as unfit for human habitation, pursuant to
division (A) above, and ordered vacated as provided in division (C) above,
shall be vacated within such reasonable time as the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority may specify in the order. No such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house, or rooming unit shall again be used for human habitation and the placard
removed until written approval is secured from the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority.
   (E)   Removal of placard. No person shall deface or remove the placard from
any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit which has been
designated as unfit for human habitation, except as provided in division (D)
above.
   (F)   Vacated dwelling made secure. The owner, agent, or operator of any
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit shall make such
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit safe and secure in
whatever manner the Housing Code Enforcement Authority shall deem necessary.
Any vacant building, open at the doors and windows, if unguarded, shall be
deemed dangerous to human life and a nuisance within the meaning of this
subchapter.
   (G)   Notice of intent to demolish. Whenever the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority designates a building unfit for human habitation as provided in this
subchapter, and determines that the cost necessary to correct the violation is
not reasonably related to the value of the building, it shall include within
the notice of violation provided for in §
151.029(F) a statement of its intent to order the demolition of the structure.
A copy of such notice shall be served on the owner, occupant, lessee, and
mortgagee, as provided in §
151.029(F). The owner may demolish such structure as provided in §
151.029(K), or correct the violation regardless of cost, provided that the
requirements of the Building Code in effect at the time of attempted compliance
are satisfied.
   (H)   Order to demolish. Whenever a notice of violation as provided in
division (G) above has not been complied with, the Housing Code Enforcement
Authority may order the building demolished. Such order shall be served as
provided in §
151.029(F), and demolition shall be complied within the time specified by the
Housing Code Enforcement Authority.
   (I)   Authority to make repairs or demolish. Whenever a notice or order to
remove a violation, secure, vacate, or demolish a building has not been
complied with, and when such failure to comply is deemed by the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority to constitute a nuisance, it may proceed to cause the
structure to be demolished, repaired, altered, secured, vacated, or take such
other action as is necessary to abate the nuisance. Whenever the Housing Code
Enforcement Authority determines that such nuisance exists, it shall record
sufficient proof to support such determination and the owner, occupant, lessee,
and mortgagee shall be notified of such finding pursuant to §
151.029(F). Abatement authorized by this section shall not commence until at
least ten days after service of such notice.
   (J)   Recovery of expenses. The expenses incurred pursuant to division (I)
above shall be paid by the owner or occupant of the premises, or by the person
who caused or maintained such nuisance or other condition. The Housing Code
Enforcement Authority shall file, among its records, an affidavit stating, with
fairness and accuracy the items of expense and the date of execution of action
authorized by this division (I) above and this division (J). The Housing Code
Enforcement Authority may institute a suit to recover such expenses or may
cause such expenses to be charged against the property as a lien. Except with
respect to a lien imposed for expenses incurred in demolition, nothing herein
shall be construed as placing a lien upon the property which superseded the
lien of any mortgage on such property executed and recorded prior to the
existence of a lien herein authorized.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-17) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 RULE MAKING; ADMINISTRATIVE RELATIONSHIPS.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The Housing Code Enforcement Authority is
authorized to make and adopt such written rules and regulations as may be
necessary for the proper enforcement and interpretation of this subchapter and
to secure the intent thereof. Such rules and regulations shall not be in
conflict with the provisions of this subchapter, or any code of the village,
nor shall they have the effect of waiving any provisions of this subchapter or
any code. Such rules and regulations shall be submitted to the Village Board to
approve, reject, or modify such rules and regulations. Failure of the Village
Board to approve, reject, or modify such rules and regulations within 30 days,
after submission, shall be deemed to constitute approval thereof. The rules and
regulations, as approved by the Village Board, shall be on file and available
as a matter of public record.
   (B)   Administrative liability. No officer, agent, or employee of the
village shall render himself or herself personally liable for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted
in the discharge of his or her duties under this subchapter. Any suit brought
against any officer, agent, or employee of the village, as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties under this
subchapter, shall be defended by the Village Attorney until the final
determination of the proceedings therein.
   (C)   The duties of legal officer. The Village Attorney shall, upon
complaint of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority, or upon his or her own
motion, institute appropriate action to restrain, prevent, enjoin, abate,
correct, or remove such violation, and to take such other legal action as is
necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this subchapter. The
remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in
addition to any other remedies provided by law, and the pursuit of any remedy
shall not be construed as an election or the waiver of the right to pursue any
and all of the others.
   (D)   Judicial review. Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved
by any final order of the Housing Code Enforcement Authority may seek to have
such order reviewed by the courts in the manner prescribed by laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-18)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.045 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure that is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of its neighboring structures.
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of
any part of such a building.
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such a building.
      (5)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which is
not habitable because of the lack of proper heat, electric, and plumbing.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 151.046 NUISANCE.
   Any such dangerous building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any
dangerous building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to
remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be
occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.047 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Building Inspector, Village Compliance Officer,
Fire Chief, or Police Chief, upon inspection of any building or structure in
the village, shall be of the opinion that such building in the village is a
dangerous building, he or she shall thereupon cause written notice to be served
upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by registered or
certified mail, or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or demolishing it, and the condition must be remedied at once. Such
notice may in the following form:
 
To ____________ (owner-occupant) of the premises known and described as
____________________.
 
You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by _________________________. The causes for this decision are
(insert the facts as to the dangerous condition). You must remedy this
condition or demolish the building immediately, (within 15 days from receipt of
this notice) or the village will proceed to do so.
 
   (B)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith within
15 days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by personnel
service or be registered or certified mail, the village may proceed to remedy
the condition or demolish the dangerous building.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 151.048 BUILDINGS TO BE TORN DOWN.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the village as described in §
151.045 which has or may be damaged by fire, decay, or other cause to the
extent of 50% of its value, shall be torn down and removed. Upon written notice
of such building filed with the Fire Chief, he or she shall then appoint three
persons to determine whether or not such building has been damaged to the
extent of 50% of its value. A copy of the notice filed with the Chief, together
with a notice of the appointment of this Board to determine the damage, shall
be served upon the owner of the premises by personal service or by registered
or certified mail to this last known address. Such notice may be in
substantially the following form:
 
To _____________,
 
You are hereby notified that _______________ has determined that the building
owned by you at ________________, located within the village has been damaged
by fire, decay, or otherwise to the extent of 50% of its value; and that a
Board of three members has been appointed to verify this finding. This Board
will holds its first meeting in the Village Hall on the _______ day of _______,
at the hour of ________ o’clock, at which time it will determine whether this
finding is correct.
 
If this finding is certified by the Board, you must tear down and remove said
building.
 
   (B)   If the said Board of three members determines that the building in
question has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, it shall be the
duty of the owner to tear down or remove the said building within 20 days after
the finding of the Board, and its shall be unlawful to occupy or permit such
building to be occupied after such finding.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 UNKNOWN OWNERS.
   If the owner of the premises is unknown, or if his or her address is
unknown, service of any notice provided for in this subchapter may be made by
posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing one time a copy
thereof in a newspaper published with the municipality.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 151.050 VILLAGE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In the event the owner or owners of any buildings fail, refuse, or
neglect to carry out the orders to remedy the condition or demolish the
buildings as provided for in §
151.046, or if said owner or owners fail, refuse, or neglect to carry out the
order to tear down or remove the building as provided for in §
151.047, the village may cause said building or structures to be removed. The
village, in such event, shall, in addition to the other remedies provided
herein, have a lien against said property to the extent of the costs and
expenses of removal.
   (B)   The village may proceed to remove any such building or structure
described herein by one of the following means:
      (1)   If the cost exceeds $1,500, the village shall advertise for bids in
the ordinary manner as provided by law;
      (2)   If the cost does not exceed $1,500, the village may contract with
any recognized or authorized wrecker firm, without taking bids, to remove the
building or structure; or
      (3)   Contract with anyone who will remove the said building or structure
without cost to the village, regardless of the estimated cost of removal, said
person to assume all liability and costs of removal.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incurred by the village in removing the
building or structures as provided for herein may be recovered in an action at
law against the owner or owners of said building or structure.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 151.051 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this
subchapter, the Chief of the Fire Department or any other municipal officer
whose duty it is to investigate fires may make the investigations authorized by
the statute found in 127-1/2 Ill. Rev. Stat. 9-14.
      (2)   If such officer shall find that any building or structure is so
occupied or situated as to endanger persons or property or by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of repair, or for any cause is especially liable to
fire, or is liable to cause injury by collapsing or otherwise, he or she shall
order the dangerous situation removed or remedied, and shall so notify the
owner or occupant of the premises.
      (3)   Service of such notice may be in person or by registered mail, and
any person so notified may appeal from the decision of such officer in the
manner provided by law.
   (B)   The village may, by ordinance, declare a specific structure to be a
nuisance and make provision for its demolition, and in extreme cases where the
owners cannot be located, the village may, by summary action, demolish a
building which is a fire or health hazard.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008)
NUISANCE BUILDINGS
§ 151.065 CONDITION.
   The Building Inspector, the Fire Marshal, the Health Officer, or the Code
Enforcement Officer shall report to the Mayor and Village Board that the
building located in the village is in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 151.066 TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of such building shall repair or alter it so as to make it safe
within 90 days from the time notice is served upon him or her in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   The building shall be deemed unsafe because:
   (A)   The main supporting beams are not properly secured at outer walls;
   (B)   Outer walls from foundation to the first floor line are unsafe;
   (C)   First and second floor joists are undersized and are toe-nailed to
beams;
   (D)   Sub-flooring on first and second floors is of inferior and decayed
lumber;
   (E)   Sheathing of outer walls is inferior and decayed lumber;
   (F)   North wall is bulging outward at first-floor line;
   (G)   Rear stairway to first and second floor is unsafe;
   (H)   Front porch is unsafe; and/or
   (I)   Wood construction is in contact with chimney.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 151.068 MANNER OF CORRECTING DEFECTS.
   The owner shall correct these defects by the following:
   (A)   Main supporting beams to be supported properly at the outer walls;
   (B)   Outer walls from the foundation to the first floor line to be
constructed so as to carry first and second floor outer walls safely;
   (C)   Joists on first and second floors to be of a size able to carry a live
load of 40 pounds per square foot of floor surface;
   (D)   Joists to rest on beams or bearing partitions and lapped and spiked
together and to be properly bridged;
   (E)   Sub-flooring to be replaced with sound lumber;
   (F)   Sheathing of outer walls and front porch to be replaced with sound
lumber;
   (G)   North wall of building which bulges outward from the main structure to
be replaced and made plumb and so constructed that it will not be possible for
it to pull away from the main structure;
   (H)   Front porch and stairs to be replaced with sound lumber;
   (I)   Rear stairway to first and second floors to be replaced with sound
lumber;
   (J)   All wood framing adjacent to chimney to be so constructed as to leave
a two-inch clearance space between said framing and chimney;
   (K)   Basement ceiling, the first floor ceiling, stairway enclosing walls,
and walls of hallways shall be plastered on metal lath; and/or
   (L)   Walls in basement from ceiling to foundation to be plastered on metal
lath or properly fire- stopped. All work done in the construction of this
building to be done in compliance with the Zoning Code of the village and all
other codes applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.069 NOTIFICATION TO OWNER.
   The Building Inspector, Fire Marshal, Code Enforcement Officer, or Health
Officer shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner of the building a copy
of this subchapter, certified by the Village Clerk, by personal service, or by
posting a copy thereof upon the premises and mailing another copy to the last
known address for mailing of owner, and shall report to the Mayor when such
notice has been served.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
§ 151.070 DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The building described in §
151.065 is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be abated as provided in
Chapter 90 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see 24 Ill. Rev. Stat. 11-31-1
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of the State Plumbing Code
adopted by §
151.002, or any of the other provisions of §
151.002, shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished by a fine not less than
$3 nor more than $200. Each day any violation of any provision of such Plumbing
Code or the provisions of $
151.002 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-3)
   (C)   Any person who shall knowingly or willfully violate or assist in the
violation of §§
151.015 through
151.031 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 and
not more than $200, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each
offense. Each day that such violation continues, after conviction, shall
constitute a separate offense. The term PERSON, as used in this division (C),
shall include the owner, occupant, mortgagee, or vendee in possession, assignee
of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, agent, or any other person,
firm, or corporation directly or indirectly in control of a building or part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-18)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violation any provision of §§
151.045 through
151.051, or permitting any dangerous building, or any building or structure, to
remain in a dangerous condition, or to remain in a dangerous condition, or to
remain in the village, after it has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its
value, shall be fined as provided in this division (D) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the
violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the remedies provided in §§
151.045 through
151.051, any owner or occupant of a structure determined to be in violation of
§§
151.045 through
151.051 may be fined no less than $200 nor more than $1,000 for each day such
structure remains in violation of §§
151.045 through
151.051.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 10-6-2008)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Zoning compliance
   
152.003   Dependent mobile homes prohibited
   
152.004   Mobile homes; real estate tax
   
152.005   Smoke alarms
   
152.006   Tie-down requirements
   
152.007   Concrete pad
   
152.008   Utility service connection
   
152.009   Water supply and distribution system
   
152.010   Sewage disposal
   
152.011   Fuel storage
   
152.012   Natural gas or central butane system installation
   
152.013   System shut-off valve
   
152.014   Mobile home shut-off valve
   
152.015   Fuel oil distribution systems
   
152.016   Off-street parking
   
152.017   Additional mobile home regulations
   
152.018   Mobile home sketches
Mobile Home Parks
   
152.030   To reduce number of licensed sites
   
152.031   To reissue voided, suspended, denied, or revoked license
   
152.032   Local government requirements
   
152.033   Permits
   
152.034   Licenses
   
152.035   Violation proceedings
   
152.036   Transfer of license
   
152.037   Display of license and permits
   
152.038   Management of mobile home park
Design and Construction Requirements
   
152.050   Plan document
   
152.051   Location
   
152.052   Roadways and parking
   
152.053   Mobile home sites and spacing
   
152.054   Potable water supply
   
152.055   Distribution system
   
152.056   Cost of water connection
   
152.057   Sewerage disposal system
   
152.058   Sewage collection system
   
152.059   Solid waste disposal
   
152.060   Fire protection
   
152.061   Exterior lighting
   
152.062   Vector control
   
152.063   Electrical distribution
   
152.064   Fuel supply and storage
   
152.065   Swimming pools and beaches
   
152.066   Service buildings
Mobile Home Park Maintenance and Operation Regulations
   
152.080   Notification of rules and regulations by park owner
   
152.081   Registration
   
152.082   Communicable or contagious disease
   
152.083   Inspection door required
   
152.084   Fencing
   
152.085   Abandoned vehicles and the like
   
152.086   Building materials
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has the authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have toilet and bath or
shower facilities.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home served by individual utilities,
resting on a permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established
frost depth with the wheels, tongue, and hitch removed and the home secured in
compliance with the Mobile Home Tie-Down Act.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village, allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   LOT SIZE. The minimum LOT SIZE shall be provided. However, the lot shall be
at least 75 feet wide and at least 100 feet deep. No mobile home shall be
located within 15 feet of any lot line, nor closer than 25 feet of an existing
building.
   MANUFACTURED/MODULAR HOME.
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is 320 or
more square feet when erected on its site and designed to be used as a dwelling
unit with a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein.
      (2)   Units composed of two or more separate components designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
      (3)   In addition, the term MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOME also includes
panelized, sectional, or modular units known as MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNITS,
which are regulated by the State Department of Public Health. These UNITS are
defined as a building assembly or system of building subassemblies, designed
for habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the necessary
electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, and other service systems, which is
of closed or open construction and which is made for installation or assembly
and installation of the building site with a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed as
to permit it from the place of its construction to the location, or subsequent
location, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons. The
MOBILE HOME may consist of one or more sections.
      (2)   A type of manufactured housing built on and permanently affixed to
a steel chassis and possessing physical requirements as described and having a
label permanently affixed to the rear of each towable unit denoting compliance
with the “National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.”
      (3)   Housing designated and so constructed to be defined as a MOBILE
HOME subject to all regulations applicable thereto, whether or not wheels,
axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and regardless of
the foundation provided.
      (4)   A dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
which contain sites with more independent mobile homes for permanent habitation
either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building,
structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the
equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of
land shall not preclude the tracts of land from complying with this section as
a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are maintained and operated jointly. However, if
each proposed contiguous site for two mobile homes contains a minimum of 6,000
square feet with a 50-foot frontage, it will be exempt from complying with this
section. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a motorized recreational
vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a MOBILE HOME PARK. A MOBILE HOME
PARK shall not be permitted within the village corporate limits.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMIT. A permit certificate issued by the village permitting the
construction, alteration, or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home
park under the provisions of this subchapter and the rules and regulations
issued hereunder by the village.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state, or any political subdivision or department thereof, or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for an indefinite period of time.
   SITE. The lot on which the mobile home is harbored.
   SKIRTING. Used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing, and support piers, and
shall be applied no more than 30 days after occupancy.
   SPACE. Synonymous with SITE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village, for a temporary period of time with an expectation
or resumption.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.002 ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Mobile homes shall conform to zoning laws and requirements for lot size,
building size, and building location on lot along with all other regulations
and requirements established in the zoning ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.003 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED.
   No dependent mobile home shall be permitted to be located in the village. A
dependent mobile home is defined as one that does not have toilet, bath, or
shower facilities.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-3)
§ 152.004 MOBILE HOMES; REAL ESTATE TAX.
   All immobilized mobile homes located in the municipality and not in mobile
home parks shall be classified as REAL ESTATE. All persons owning, operating,
renting, or leasing a mobile home shall remove or cause to have removed the
wheels or any other transportation device from the mobile home. The owner or
lessor shall permanently affix said mobile home to the ground in a manner that
conforms to the definition of an immobilized mobile home in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.005 SMOKE ALARMS.
   All mobile homes shall have smoke alarms in the vicinity of the furnace and/
or kitchen area and have two fire extinguishers in working order, one in each
end of the mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.006 TIE-DOWN REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile homes shall have approved tie-downs.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.007 CONCRETE PAD.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be placed on a mobile home pad constructed of
Portland cement concrete that shall be at least 12 inches below the freeze
line. In addition, all mobile home pads shall be at least ten feet wide by 60
feet in length, or mobile homes may be placed on solid concrete piers on a
solid concrete footing. Such piers and footings shall be of a size and kind
approved by the Village Board and shall be exactly as approved.
   (B)   Expandable units shall be provided with approved piers or their
equivalent at each corner of the unit.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.008 UTILITY SERVICE CONNECTION.
   No person shall become eligible for a municipal utility service connection
for a mobile home within the village corporate limits except upon proof of
special use permit.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-10)
§ 152.009 WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be provided
in each mobile home. Where a public supply of water is available at or near the
site, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.010 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Sewage disposal shall meet all village requirements in accordance with Title
V.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.011 FUEL STORAGE.
   (A)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be permanently installed and
securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside or beneath the
mobile home, or less than 15 feet from the mobile home exit/entrance.
   (B)   Fuel storage shall be permitted in tanks or containers mounted on an
incombustible frame at the rear of the mobile home. Fuel containers shall not
exceed 300 gallon capacity unless approved by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.012 NATURAL GAS OR CENTRAL BUTANE SYSTEM INSTALLATION.
   All gas piping installed below ground shall have a minimum earth cover of 18
inches. Gas mains shall not be installed under any mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.013 SYSTEM SHUT-OFF VALVE.
   A readily accessible and identified shut-off valve, controlling the flow of
fuel to the central fuel piping system, shall be installed near the point of
connection to the main fuel supply point.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.014 MOBILE HOME SHUT-OFF VALVE.
   Each mobile home shall have an approved fuel shut-off valve installed
upstream of the mobile fuel outlet and located on the outlet riser at a height
of not less than four inches above grade. Whenever the mobile home lot outlet
is not in use, the outlet shall be equipped with an approved cap or plug to
prevent accidental discharge of fuel.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.015 FUEL OIL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS.
   Piping installed below ground shall have a minimum earth cover of 18 inches
and all fuel lines shall be provided with a stopcock at the outlet of the fuel
container, and another stopcock just before the fuel line enters the mobile
home.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.016 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Each mobile home owner shall provide for an off-street parking area of 400
square feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.017 ADDITIONAL MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to maintain or locate any mobile home upon any plot or
parcel of land within the corporate limits of the village, except by a receipt
of a special use permit.
   (B)   Any mobile home situated within the village corporate limits upon the
effective date of this section shall, if in conformity to all sewer, water,
sanitation, health, building code, tie-down, or other ordinances or statutes,
be permitted to remain at its present location but may not be replaced by
another mobile home or moved to another location within the village corporate
limits, except in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter and the
zoning ordinance of the village.
   (C)   Special use permits will only be issued for single-family, owner-
occupied mobile homes except in the case of non-residential use in Districts B-
1, B-2, and M-1 (but shall require a special use permit). Exemptions to this
regulation shall require a variance.
   (D)   No mobile home which is more than seven years old may be placed within
the village corporate limits under any special use permit.
   (E)   The enlargement of livable space or the addition of a room in a mobile
home shall require a special use permit. The addition of a porch, sun deck,
patio, or similar addition shall be considered a permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.018 MOBILE HOME SKETCHES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a0a6d9a3426d54295963d10b79448e3003dbd33c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1454.png]
 
(Prior Code, § Figure 1)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 152.030 TO REDUCE NUMBER OF LICENSED SITES.
   An application to reduce the number of sites shall be submitted to the
village no later than ten days prior to the proposed date of reduction. The
specific sites no longer required to be licensed, and either the method of
disconnecting the required utilities or a description of the method of
immobilizing the mobile homes shall be provided. If the reduction results in
less than two mobile homes remaining, the license shall be void if the
application is approved. No fee shall be required. The licensee shall be
responsible for ensuring that all utilities at vacated spaces are disconnected
or sealed, as prescribed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-1)
§ 152.031 TO REISSUE VOIDED, SUSPENDED, DENIED, OR REVOKED LICENSE.
   A mobile home park whose license has been voided, suspended, denied, or
revoked may be relicensed by submission of the application items required in
paragraphs (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section and an application fee of
$50, which is non-refundable. Approval shall be issued if an inspection of the
park indicates compliance with this subchapter and the rules promulgated to
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-2)
§ 152.032 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit does not relieve the applicant from securing building permits
in the village or the county having a building code, or from complying with any
village or county zoning or other ordinance applicable thereto.
   (B)   Within ten days of receiving an application for a permit to construct
a new park or expand a licensed park, the village shall send a copy thereof, by
certified mail, to the County Clerk. Construction for which the village has
issued a permit shall not commence until the applicant has received any
required village or county zoning approvals. No license to operate and maintain
a mobile home park shall be issued upon the village’s being notified, within 60
days of the mailing of the application to the county, as provided in this
subchapter by a written certification from the village or County Zoning Board
or Commission that such park is in violation of any village or county zoning or
other ordinances and that such park was not in existence at the time of the
passage of the village or county zoning or other ordinances.
   (C)   Upon certification from such village or County Zoning Board that such
park has complied with the village or county zoning or other ordinances and
other requirements of this subchapter have been met, such license shall be
issued. Within ten days after such park has complied with the village or county
zoning ordinance, the village or County Zoning Board shall certify such
compliance to the village. Provided, fees charged by the village or county for
such permits shall not exceed the usual charge for the services provided by the
village or county in connection with such permits.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-3)
§ 152.033 PERMITS.
   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct a new mobile home
park, or an application for an original license to operate and maintain the
same, or an application for a permit to alter a licensed mobile home park, the
village shall, if the park is, or the proposed park will be, in conformity with
this subchapter and the rules and regulations adopted by the village pursuant
thereto, issue a permit to construct, a permit to alter, or an original
license, as the case may be. If the application for a permit to construct, a
permit to alter, or an original license is declined, the village shall give the
reasons therefor in writing to the applicant, and if the objections can be
corrected, the applicant may amend his or her application and re-submit for
approval. Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-4)
§ 152.034 LICENSES.
   (A)   Issuance. If a permit to construct or a permit to alter a park has
been issued, the applicant, upon completion thereof, shall notify the village.
The village shall then inspect the park and, if completed in accordance with
the approved plans, shall issue a license for the number of approved sites
after receipt of the required fee.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   In addition to the application fees provided for herein, the
licensee shall pay to the village, on or before March 31 of each year, an
annual license fee, which shall be $100 plus $3 for each mobile home space in
the park. Annual license fees submitted after April 30 shall be subject to a
$50 late fee. The licensee shall also complete and return a license renewal
application by March 31 of each year. The licensee shall pay to the village
within 30 days of receipt of notification from the village $6 for each
additional mobile home site added to his or her park under authority of a
written permit to alter the park as provided in § 23.27 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Payment for the additional mobile sites to be made an amended
license therefor obtained before any mobile homes are accommodated on the
additional mobile home spaces. The village shall issue an amended license to
cover such additional mobile home sites when they are to be occupied before the
end of the license year, for which an annual license has been previously
issued.
      (3)   An applicant for an original license to operate a new park
constructed under a permit issued by the village shall only be required to pay
one-fourth of the annual fee if such park begins operation after January 31 and
before May 1 of such licensing year, or one-half of the annual fee if such park
begins operation after October 31 and before February 1 of such licensing year
or three-fourths of the annual fee if such park begins operation after July 31
and before November 1 of such licensing year, but shall be required to pay the
entire annual fee if such park begins operation after April 30 and before
August 1 of such licensing year. Each license fee shall be paid to the village,
and any license fee or any part thereof, once paid to and accepted by the
village, shall not be refunded. The village shall deposit all funds received
under this chapter in the Village Depository.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-5)
§ 152.035 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension
by the village. However, the village shall first serve or cause to be served
upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be specified the way or ways
in which such licensee has failed to comply with the statute, or any rules or
regulations promulgated by the village pertaining thereto. The notice shall
require the licensee to remove or abate such nuisance, unsanitary, or
objectionable condition, specified in such notice, within five days or within a
longer period of time as may be allowed by the village. If the licensee fails
to comply with the terms and conditions of the notice, within the time
specified or such extended period of time, the village may revoke or suspend
such license.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-6)
§ 152.036 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be transferable only with the
written consent of the village; provided, however, that the village may not
withhold such consent where the provisions of this subchapter have been met.
The new licensee shall provide to the village the information required in
paragraphs (A), (C), and (E) of § 23.27.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-7)
§ 152.037 DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND PERMITS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct a mobile home park without
first obtaining a permit to do so. All permits to construct, all licenses to
operate, and all permits to make alterations therein shall be prominently
displayed in the park office.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.038 MANAGEMENT OF MOBILE HOME PARK.
   Every park shall be managed by a responsible individual whose name, address,
and telephone number shall be on file at all times with the village and whose
duty it shall be to maintain the park, its facilities, and equipment in a
clean, orderly, and sanitary condition, and shall be responsible, with the
licensee, for any violation of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.050 PLAN DOCUMENT.
   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to operate a
mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the village a written
application and plan documents, and such plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed. Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the
application filed with the village to obtain a permit to construct or alter a
mobile home park or an original license to operate a mobile home park, not
previously licensed by the Department. These plans shall include, but not be
limited to, the design and construction criteria set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-10)
§ 152.051 LOCATION.
   (A)   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well drained and
free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home development
shall not be located near swamps, marshes, or other breeding places of insects,
rats, and mice. When a good natural drainage is not available, storm drainage
shall be provided, and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or
surface watercourse.
   (B)   The village may conduct a site survey to ascertain that the proposed
location complies with the requirements of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.052 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be maintained in a
passable and reasonably dust-proof condition at all times.
   (B)   All streets and driveways in parks constructed shall have a minimum
road width of 26 feet.
   (C)   All roadways in mobile home parks shall provide convenient vehicular
traffic flow in accordance with one of the following specifications.
 
Road Width Parking
26 ft.     No parking on roadway
30 ft.     Parking one side of street
36 ft.     Parking two sides of street
Notes to table:
Parking restrictions do not apply whenever traffic flow is one-way.
 
   (D)   Sidewalks and walkways in the mobile home park, where provided, shall
be a minimum of three and one-half feet in width, with no minimum width
requirement for sidewalks in each individual lot. No portion of a mobile home
shall block, in any way, the pedestrian traffic on the walkways.
   (E)   All mobile home spaces shall be equipped with one off-street parking
space of at least 15 feet wide and 20 feet deep.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.053 MOBILE HOME SITES AND SPACING.
   (A)   Each site on which each mobile home is accommodated shall have a
minimum area of 2,500 square feet.
   (B)   (1)   No mobile home shall be parked closer than five feet to the side
lot lines of a park, or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley, or
building. Each individual site shall abut or face on a private or public
street.
      (2)   All streets shall have unobstructed access to a public street.
There shall be an open space of at least ten feet adjacent to the sides of
every mobile home and at least five feet adjacent to the ends of every mobile
home.
   (C)   All mobile home sites, irrespective of shape, shall have a minimum
frontage of 50 linear feet, and comply with the minimum area requirement as
stated in division (A) above.
   (D)   Concrete pads, at least six inches thick, shall be provided for each
lot. A perimeter footing of at least 24 inches shall be provided for each pad.
The area of the concrete pad shall equal the square footage of the mobile home.
   (E)   Anchors and tie-downs for mobile homes shall be installed at the
corners of each pad or as otherwise deemed necessary for protection against
high winds. Each anchor should be capable of withstanding a vertical tension
force of 4,800 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.054 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality approved by the
village shall be furnished at each pad. Each site shall be provided with a cold
water tap located in accordance per regulations of the Department of Public
Health and the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.055 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   All plumbing shall be installed in accordance with the State Plumbing
Code.
   (B)   The diameter of the pipe required shall be no less than four inches in
all areas of the park. The distribution system shall be looped whenever
possible, and dead-end mains shall be equipped with flush hydrants or
equivalent.
   (C)   The laying of the water main, in relation to the location of the sewer
main, shall be in accordance with the following.
      (1)   On new installation of all water mains and sewer mains shall not be
less than ten feet apart horizontally and shall be separated by undisturbed or
compacted earth. Should conditions prevail which would prevent a lateral
separation of ten feet, the water service pipe may be placed in the same trench
as the sewer service pipe, provided the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The bottom of the water service pipe at all points shall be at
least 18 inches above the top of the sewer line.
         (b)   The water service pipe shall be placed on a solid shelf
excavated at one side of the common trench.
         (c)   The number of joints in the water and sewer service pipe shall
be kept at a minimum.
      (2)   Water and sewer lines shall not cross except where such crossings
cannot be reasonably avoided. At necessary crossings, the water line shall be
kept at least 18 inches above the top of the sewer, which vertical separation
shall be maintained at least ten feet from each side of the crossings or the
sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe, type K copper, or DWV plastic
pipe (Schedule 40) with water-tight joints for a distance of ten feet from each
side of the water line. All crossings shall be made at right angles and the
water and sewer pipe lengths shall be centered such that the joints are as
remote as possible from the crossing. The materials in joint construction for
the water and sewer service lines shall be in accordance with §§ 10.10.1 and
11.2.2 of the State Plumbing Code.
      (3)   On new installations, all water service connection lines and sewer
connections shall not be less than ten feet apart horizontally and shall be
separated by undisturbed or compacted earth.
   (D)   A water service connection shall not be less than three-fourths of an
inch inside diameter and shall not serve more than one mobile home at any time.
   (E)   All water risers shall be at least three-fourths of an inch in
diameter and terminate at least four inches above finished ground level.
   (F)   On new installations, water supply outlets at each mobile home shall
be separated not less than ten feet horizontally from the sewer outlet.
   (G)   All corporation stops and valve cocks shall be approved by the
village. Combination stop and waste valves and cocks shall not be installed in
an underground service pipe.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.056 COST OF WATER CONNECTION.
   The cost of a water connection shall be in accordance with the regulations
established in Title V.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.057 SEWERAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   There shall be no discharge of raw or partially treated sewage or
waste water onto the surface of the ground, nor shall there be any escape of
odors from the drainage systems. All sewerage systems serving mobile home parks
shall be designed and operated in accordance with good sanitation practices and
shall meet the requirements of the State Department of Public Health. Plans for
new installations shall be submitted to the Department of Public Health for
review and approval as part of the total proposed park plan. The design of
sewerage system and sewerage treatment facility for a mobile home park shall be
based on the maximum number of mobile home spaces and designed and constructed
on the basis of 250 gallons per space per day. When sewerage treatment
facilities are proposed with an above-ground discharge or surface discharge,
additional plans may be required by the Environmental Protection Agency. All
sewerage shall be into a private system which includes a sanitary means of
disposal, the operation of which creates neither a nuisance or a menace to
health. All liquid waste from each mobile home shall discharge into an approved
sewerage disposal system.
   (B)   Each site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined
liquid waste outlet or outlets of each mobile home. It shall be the duty of the
owner or operator of said park to provide an approved type of water- and odor-
tight connection from the mobile home water drainage to the sewer connection,
and it shall be the duty of the owner or operator to make such connection and
keep all occupied mobile homes connected to the sewer while located in the
park. Sewer connections in unoccupied sites shall be so closed that they will
emit no odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be
allowed to fall on the ground from a mobile home. At all sewer connections, the
sewer riser shall extend four inches above the ground.
   (C)   Septic tank and subsurface seepage fields may be used for mobile home
parks provided the system is of proper design. The design should be based upon
the criteria of U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare “Public
Health Service Bulletin Number 526, Manual of Septic Tank Practice.” Plans and
specifications for subsurface disposal facilities shall provide adequate
percolation data. A minimum of six test holes, at various locations throughout
the seepage field area are required. The ground water table, the size of septic
tanks and seepage fields, contours, elevations, slopes, and the like, must be
shown on the plans. Septic tanks and subsurface seepage tile shall be separated
from wells by the minimum distances specified in § 23.39, Table II, and shall
not be less than 50 feet from any lake, stream, or open ditch. No subsurface
disposal system shall have a septic tank storage capacity of less than 750
gallons, nor a subsurface tile field less than 250 square feet of absorption
area, with no trench width exceeding three feet. The effective absorption area
is to be considered as the area of the trench bottom.
   (D)   New construction and alterations of individual sewage disposal systems
shall be inspected by the design engineer or an authorized representative of
this village prior to being back-filled.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-17)
§ 152.058 SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   In new installations, sanitary sewers shall be separated by ten feet
horizontally from water supply lines wherever possible throughout their length.
If sewer lines cross water lines, the installation must meet the requirements
specified under § 23.40(B).
   (B)   The minimum design and slope of new sewer installations shall be
determined in accordance with the following:
 
Minimum Size and Slope of Sewers*
No. of Spaces Sewer Inside Diameter  Slope per 100 feet  Uses
              (In.)                  (In.)
1 to 125      6                      9                   Laterals and mains
More than 125 8                      6                   Mains
Notes to table:
*   Exclusive of laterals serving individual mobile homes.
 
   (C)   On new installations, manholes shall be provided at every change in
direction or grade, at the upper end of every main sewer line, at every
junction of two or more branch sewers, and at intervals of not more than 400
feet. Cleanouts extending to grade may be used instead of manholes on sewer
lines no greater than eight inches in diameter, and shall be at intervals of
not more than 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.059 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and water-tight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage.
   (B)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall not
be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling or a breeding
place for insects. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which
creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the
village. Individual refuse containers shall be located at each space or bulk
containers shall be located within 150 feet from any mobile home. All
containers shall be stored at least eight inches off the ground surface or on
an impervious slab or other installations approved by the village, all refuse,
which includes, garbage, rubbish, and tin cans shall be stored in a durable,
rust resistant, non-absorbent, watertight, rodent-proof container having a
tight fitting lid which shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and in good
repair at all times. The minimum capacity for refuse containers shall be a
ratio of 40 gallons per mobile home per week or a ratio of 40 gallons per
mobile home per week when a centralized collection system is utilized.
   (C)   Paper and plastic bags designed specifically for solid waste, may be
used on occasion as a supplement to basic storage containers provided that they
are properly closed, attached to a holder, properly stored above ground to
prevent scattering by animal or human, and no evidence of rodent activity is
observed.
   (D)   The collection of all solid waste shall be performed by the Village
Garbage Contractor.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.060 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Mobile homes in mobile home parks shall be equipped with fire extinguishers
in working order, one in each end of the mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.061 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   Adequate lighting shall be provided for all streets, walkways, buildings,
and other facilities subject to night-time use. There shall be an average
illumination level of at least six-tenths foot candle and a minimum
illumination level of three-tenths foot candle maintained on all streets. To
achieve this level of illumination, the village recommends the use of 175-watt
mercury-vapor lamp, or a 600-watt tungsten lamp, at an elevation of 25 feet,
every 250 feet. Individual electric or gas yard lights, having an average
equivalent illumination of a 40-watt electric light bulb per space will be
acceptable in lieu of a central lighting system.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.062 VECTOR CONTROL.
   (A)   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed by the
mobile home park owner. All buildings shall be fly and rodent proof, and rodent
harborages shall not be permitted to exist in the park or pathways.
   (B)   The mobile home park owner shall eliminate any insect, rat, or mice
problem in the park which is a potential health hazard.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.063 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Underground electrical lines shall be placed at least 18 inches below
the ground, surface and at least one foot radial distance from water, sewer,
gas, or communication lines. If overhead power lines are installed, they shall
be at least 18 feet above streets or roadways. A minimum horizontal clearance
of at least three feet shall be provided between overhead lines and any
structure.
   (B)   The electrical cable supplying electrical service from the weather-
proof receptacle to the mobile home must be buried six inches below ground
level from the receptacle to a point directly below the entrance to the mobile
home or be suspended and adequately supported at least seven feet above ground
level from a point vertical to the receptacle to the mobile home.
   (C)   No connected electrical extension cord shall lie on the ground or be
suspended less than seven feet from the ground above sidewalks or pathways. All
electrical wiring, equipment, and appurtenances shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with applicable local government codes and
regulations. A properly grounded, weather-proof receptacle shall be provided
for each mobile home site.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.064 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   All handling and storage of natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), fuel
oil, or other flammable liquid or gases should be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable state and local government codes and regulations.
The State Department of Law Enforcement (Division of Fire Prevention) is the
regulatory state agency for safe fuel storage and handling systems and the
applicable regulations are the National Fire Protection Association Standards,
NFPA-31 “Installation of Oil Burning Equipment-1968,” NFPA-54, “Installation of
Gas Appliances and Gas Piping-1969,” and NFPA-58, “Storage and Handling of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases 1969.” No LPG or fuel oil container shall be placed
inside or beneath any mobile home, storage cabinet, carport, or any other
structure unless such arrangement is approved by the appropriate authority.
Containers of fuel shall be at least five feet from any mobile home door or
exits, and placed on stands constructed of a noncombustible material.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.065 SWIMMING POOLS AND BEACHES.
   Swimming pools and beaches, if provided, shall be constructed and operated
in accordance with applicable state statute and all rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto. Separate plans and specifications are to be submitted
to this village for approval prior to construction.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.066 SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Plans and specifications for service buildings, containing community
kitchens, dining rooms, laundries, lavatory and toilet facilities, or other
facilities are subject to review by the village.
   (B)   All plumbing within a service building shall comply with the State
Plumbing Code. All electrical and heating installations shall be in accordance
with existing county building ordinances.
   (C)   The facilities and equipment of all service buildings shall be
maintained in a sanitary condition and kept in good repair, subject to
inspection by the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARK MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 152.080 NOTIFICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS BY PARK OWNER.
   (A)   The mobile home park owner shall notify the mobile home residents of
all applicable provisions of the Mobile Home Park Law and rules and regulations
for mobile home parks and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
required by the village.
   (B)   The mobile home park owner shall draft and adopt a separate set of
rules and regulations governing the maintenance of the mobile home park to keep
its facilities and equipment in good repair and in clean and sanitary
condition. Under these rules and regulations, the mobile home park owner shall
identify the responsibilities of the management to the mobile home owner and
shall further identify the responsibilities of the resident in the mobile home
park.
   (C)   The local rules and regulations established by the mobile home park
owner shall contain, but not be limited to, the control of pets, the storage of
refuse and garbage, the design and construction of auxiliary structures, the
control of abandoned automobiles, the control of the growth of weeds and grass,
control of insects, rats, and mice and all other rules and regulations
necessary to maintain the mobile home park, its facilities, and equipment in
good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   The mobile home park resident shall be informed of the local rules and
regulations governing the maintenance and operation of the mobile home park.
   (E)   The local rules and regulations, established by the mobile home park
owner, shall not relieve the mobile home park owner or caretaker of compliance
with the State Mobile Home Park Law or “Rules and Regulations for State Mobile
Home Parks.”
(Prior Code, § 23-2-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.081 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Each mobile home park shall be provided with a custodian’s office
where each mobile home entering such park shall be assigned to a site, given a
copy of the park rules, and registered according to the prescribed form. Such
registration shall include the name and address of the owner and every occupant
of such mobile home and the square feet of the floor space contained in such
mobile home. Such registration shall also include the license number of the
mobile home and of the towing vehicle, if there be any, and the state issuing
such licenses. The register shall be signed by the owner or operator of the
mobile home.
   (B)   Any person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable under the general
statutes for such offense.
   (C)   The registration records shall be neatly and securely maintained, and
no registration records shall be destroyed until six years have elapsed
following the date of registration. The register shall be available at all
times for inspection by all law enforcement officers and by the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.082 COMMUNICABLE OR CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
   The mobile home park owner or caretaker shall notify the village immediately
of any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the mobile home
park.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.083 INSPECTION DOOR REQUIRED.
   An inspection door for use by the village representative or licensee that is
easily removable, a sliding type or hinge type, located near the sewer riser,
shall be provided on all mobile home skirting and shall be a minimum of 24
inches in width.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.084 FENCING.
   Perimeter fencing of individual sites, where permitted by the park owner,
shall not exceed three one-half feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.085 ABANDONED VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   Any abandoned automobile or piece of equipment having the appearance of
being abandoned shall be removed from the park.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-35)
§ 152.086 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Lumber or similar building materials shall be stacked in a neat and orderly
manner at least six inches above the ground surface.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Final approval of plat required
   
153.03   Submission of proposal
   
153.04   Requirements for approval
   
153.05   Preliminary approval
   
153.06   Final approval, certification, and recording
   
153.07   Enforcement
   
153.08   Name, incorporated records, and publication
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EASEMENT. A quantity or area of land set aside or designated for, or over,
under, along, or across which, a liberty, privilege, or advantage of land,
existing distinct from the ownership of the land or from a fee simple interest
in the land, is granted to the general public, some part of the general public,
or some particular person.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular and means either a
natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public or
quasi-public corporation, or any combination of the foregoing.
   PLAT. A map of a land subdivision containing the information hereinafter
specified and complying with the following requirements.
      (1)   It shall meet the requirements of the Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/1 et
seq., as from time to time amended, which as public record, is, by virtue of §
1-3-1 of the State Municipal Code, is incorporated herein by record.
      (2)   It shall have been prepared by, pursuant to a survey made by, a
land surveyor registered in and by the state.
      (3)   It shall have particularly described and set forth therein all
public streets, alleys, ways for public service facilities, ways for utility
services and community antenna televisions systems, parks, playgrounds, school
grounds, or other public grounds, and all the tracts, parcels, lots, or blocks,
and numbering all such lots, blocks, or parcels by progressive numbers, giving
their precise dimensions.
      (4)   It shall show all angular and linear data along the exterior
boundaries of a tract of land divided or subdivided.
      (5)   It shall show the names of all public streets and the width,
course, and extent of all public streets, alleys, and ways for public service
facilities.
      (6)   It shall make reference to known and permanent monuments from which
future survey may be made, which monuments shall have been set in such manner
that they will not be moved by frost, and good and sufficient monuments marking
the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided must be
designated upon the plat at the points where they may be found, which monuments
must be placed at all corners, at each end of all curves at the point where a
curve changes its radius, and at all angle points in any line and at all angle
points along a meander line, the points to be not less than 20 feet back from
the normal water elevation of a lake or from the bank of a stream, except that
when such corners or points fall within a street or a proposed future street
the monuments may be placed in the right-of-way line of a street.
      (7)   It shall show all internal boundaries, comers and points to be
monumented in the field by lot monuments as hereinabove defined, of which
monuments two must be of stone or reinforced concrete and must be set at the
opposite extremities of the property platted, placed at all block comers, at
each end of the curves, at the points where a curve changes its radius, and at
all angle points in a line, and it shall also show each lot to be monumented in
the field with two or more monuments.
      (8)   It shall show the proposed name of the subdivision, the location of
the subdivision by section, township, and range, the names and addresses of the
owner and the designer of the subdivision, and shall be at a scale of 100 feet
to the inch with a designated north point.
      (9)   It shall show each lot area, lot depth, lot width, and front yard,
rear yard, and side yard setback requirements, if any, to be in accordance with
the existing zoning laws and ordinances of the village.
      (10)   It shall show and provide for easements for public utilities,
whether in the form of alleyways or otherwise.
      (11)   It shall show or otherwise have appended thereto a typical street
cross-section.
      (12)   It shall have been properly certified by a land surveyor
registered in and by the state and acknowledged by the owner.
      (13)   It shall show proposed location of any pipelines for water,
natural gas, and sewer pipelines to be constructed pursuant to a subdivision
agreement and the point at which main construction is proposed to be connected
to the village’s systems.
   STREET. The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public as a
matter of right for the purpose of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, including
any public or private way which affords access by pedestrians and vehicles to
abutting property.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land as determined
by the dimensions and configuration on October 1, 1973, into two or more parts,
any of which is less than five acres and which involves, or includes, any new
street or easement of access.
   SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT. A written memorandum of agreement between the owner
and the village providing for the setting forth the responsibilities and
obligations of each party as to the performance and expense of construction,
installation, ownership, and maintenance of pipelines for the distribution of
water and natural gas and the collection of sewage from structures and
buildings which may be constructed on the land in the plat, and also providing
for any other matters pertaining to subdivision control to which the parties
may agree and which are riot inconsistent with or contrary to any provision or
requirement in the Plat Act.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Goreville, Johnson County, Illinois, a municipal
corporation.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 FINAL APPROVAL OF PLAT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person do to any of the following until a plat
has been granted final approval certified, and recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county:
   (A)   Make any subdivision or lay out any street, easement of access, or
other public space;
   (B)   Make any plat of any subdivision and record the same in the Recorder’s
office of the county;
   (C)   Offer for sale, contract for sale, sell, or lease for any time
exceeding five years, any lot, tract, or parcel, or block of land within any
subdivision; or
   (D)   Make any improvements, such as water supply, drainage sewerage, sewage
disposal, gas services, electric service of lighting, or grating, paving, or
surfacing, or any street or other easement of access within any subdivision.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03 SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL.
   Any person desiring to make a subdivision may apply to the Village Board by
submitting in triplicate to the office of the Village Clerk:
   (A)   The proposed plat;
   (B)   Documents demonstrating compliance with the requirements of §
153.04(H) through (L);
   (C)   The owner’s written and express promise and undertaking to construct
and complete, at the owner’s expense, the streets shown on the plat within 12
months after preliminary approval of the plat, in accordance with the typical
section attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived as
Appendix A; and
   (D)   The owner’s written proposal regarding the location, construction, and
the bearing of and payment for the expense of installation or pipelines for the
expense of installation of pipelines for the distribution of water and natural
gas and collection of sewage with the subdivision, and statement of being
ready, willing, and able to enter into, a subdivision agreement as a condition
of the village’s approving the proposed plat.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 153.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL.
   The Village Board may consider and approve a proposed plat of a subdivision
only upon evidence that the proposal meets the following standards and
requirements hereby established for subdivision regulation and control:
   (A)   The proposed plat constitutes a plat as herein defined, and is
submitted in accordance with §
153.03;
   (B)   All taxes and assessments on the property platted shall have been
paid;
   (C)   The village’s zoning ordinance, if any, shall be complied with, or the
owner’s proposed declaration of restrictions, or other covenants to run with
the land upon sale thereof, if any, be provided, which declaration of
restrictions, if any, shall provide that the lot or lots contained in such
subdivision are subject, at a minimum, to the zoning ordinance of the village;
   (D)   A proposed form on the plat for an effective dedication of all
streets, easements, and other public spaces to be dedicated for as provided in
and by the plat, to the village and/or the general public, whichever is
appropriate;
   (E)   There shall be submitted, simultaneously with the plat, a study or
studies which shall show topographically and by profile the elevation of the
land prior to the commencement of any change in elevations a part of any phase
of subdividing, and additionally, if it is contemplated that such elevations or
the flow or surface water from such land, will be changed as a result of any
portion of such subdivision development, then such study of studies separate
from, but of the subsidiary study or studies separate from, but of the same
scale and. size as the subdivision plat, and shall be prepared in such a manner
as will permit the topographical study or studies to be used as overlays to the
subdivision plat;
   (F)   The plat shall have on its face the signed statement of a registered
professional engineer and the owner of the land, to the effect that to the best
of their knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface waters will not be
changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or, that
if such surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable provisions has been
made for collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or
drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface waters
will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices
so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property because of
the construction of the subdivision;
   (G)   The plat shall have been approved in writing:
      (1)   By the State Department of Transportation with respect to roadway
access where such access is to a state highway;
      (2)   By the relevant local highway authority with respect to all other
roadway access; and
      (3)   By the Local Health Department, if one exists, with respect to
sewage disposal systems if any part of the platted land will not be served by a
public sewer system.
   (H)   The owner holds merchantable fee simple title to the real property
constituting the land described in the plat;
   (I)   The owner has completed construction of the streets, in accordance
with the minimum standards and requirements set forth in Appendix A of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived;
   (J)   In the event that the owner is required, pursuant to a subdivision
agreement, to construct and install pipelines for the water and sewer, the
rules, regulations, and standards by and of the Society of Professional
Engineers, as set forth in its “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois,” have been complied with;
   (K)   In the event that either the streets required hereunder or pipeline
for water, sewage, or natural gas as required under any subdivision agreement
has not been constructed or construction has not been fully completed or paid
for, either within the time the plat is presented for final approval or within
the time permitted in any subdivision agreement, then the owner shall furnish
and provide to the village a bond or other sufficient security guaranteeing the
performance and payment of the construction or completion of construction of
such improvements in the amount of a duly licensed civil engineer’s estimate of
the full cost of constructing same, which bond shall be conditioned upon such
improvements in the amount of duly licensed engineer’s estimate of the full
cost of constructing same, which bond shall be conditioned upon the owner’s
construction and installation at owner’s expense, of all the improvements
described in said plat, and shall contain the owner’s agreement to maintain
such improvements constructed for a period of one year from the date of
completion thereof, which bond shall also save the village harmless from all
loss, cost, or damage, by reason of the owner’s failure to complete said work
or maintain said improvements for such period of time; and
   (L)   The plat is in all other respects in accordance with any and all other
laws, ordinances, regulations and rules of the United States of America and the
state, and all applicable agencies of the government of each, and of the
village, which may from time to time, apply to or regulate any aspect of the
subdivision of land for whatever purpose.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 153.05 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon the owner’s satisfaction of all of the requirements of §
153.04, except the construction and installation or completion of the
construction and installation of any streets required by this chapter or any
pipelines for water, sewage, or natural gas required by the subdivision
agreement, the Village Board may by resolution grant preliminary approval to
the proposed plat, with final approval and certification under §
153.06 subject to the owner’s completion of construction and installation of
said streets, pipelines, or other required by the subdivision agreement.
   (B)   A written resolution granting preliminary approval is binding on the
village and may be relied upon by the owner for the purpose of expending funds
for completion of the requirements, but shall not be endorsed on the plat.
   (C)   Preliminary approval does not constitute certification or approval and
does not authorize recording of the plat.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 153.06 FINAL APPROVAL, CERTIFICATION, AND RECORDING.
   (A)   Proof of the owner’s completion of the construction and installation
of the streets and pipelines, if any, required, and the sufficiency of any
provisions for diversion of surface waters, shall take the form of a
certification by the village’s consulting engineers that the standards of
construction herein required have been compiled with (hereinafter, “engineering
approval”). The cost and expense of engineering approval shall be borne by the
owner and paid directly to the village’s consulting engineers upon the
village’s notifying the owner of the amount thereof.
   (B)   After preliminary approval, and upon engineering approval, the Village
Board, by written resolution, shall grant final approval of the plat and
authorize the Mayor to certify final approval thereon, attested to by the
Village Clerk.
   (C)   A plat certified as provided in division (B) above shall be recorded
in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (D)   No plat shall be valid or entitled to recording until it shall have
been finally approved and certified as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Any subdivision agreement shall also be recorded as a part of the same
document constituting the certified plat.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 153.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inasmuch as the enforcement of the regulations and controls herein
provided for is essential for the effectuation of the general plan of
development hereby contemplated, it is hereby declared that any violation of
any provisions of this chapter cannot be adequately compensated for by recovery
of damages and that there is no adequate remedy at law for any breach or any
violation of any provisions of this chapter, so that the village, any aggrieved
party, or any future owner of any lot, may require and shall be entitled to
equitable relief by injunction to restrain any violation of this chapter, in
addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (B)   Each violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be and
constitutes a nuisance and every remedy allowed by law or equity against a
nuisance, either public or private, shall be applicable hereto, and such remedy
shall be deemed cumulative, not exclusive, and not in lieu of any other remedy.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 153.08 NAME, INCORPORATED RECORDS, AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Village of
Goreville Subdivision Control Ordinance.”
   (B)   This chapter shall be printed in book or pamphlet form, published by
authority of the village, and such book or pamphlet shall be prima facie
evidence of the contents, passage, and legal publication of this chapter as of
the dates hereinafter mentioned, and all courts and administrative tribunals,
and this chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication in the manner provided by law.
   (C)   The chapter shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds
for the county, for the purpose of aiding in determination of the sufficiency
of legal descriptions of lots platted hereunder, the recordability of
instruments of conveyance of those lots, and the legal sufficiency of plats
recorded pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit any act prohibited by this chapter
or to fail to comply with any requirement hereof, and any person violating any
provisions of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not less than $100 and
not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 7-20-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHANGES OF STREET NAMES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: CHANGES OF STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-4     10-20-1997  Changing the name of Pineview Street to Evergreen Drive.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-3     10-6-1997   Annexing ten acres in Section 16, Township 11 South, Range
                     2 East.
                    
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        2-17-2023   Cooperative agreement for the animal control services of
                     Watson Kennels LLC within the city.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                     Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.10                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                   10.04
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.          30.02
5 ILCS 120/2.02               30.03;
                              30.10
5 ILCS 120/2.03               30.03
5 ILCS 270/1                  31.006
10 ILCS                       31.001
30 ILCS 235/6                 31.082
40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.       33.05
40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.      33.04
50 ILCS 105/2                 31.007;
                              31.025
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.         31.175
65 ILCS                       30.01
65 ILCS 3/1-35-20             31.023
65 ILCS 5                     10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2               10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2               33.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4               31.047
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5               31.047
65 ILCS 5/1-2-7               10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2               130.01
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12              11.01;
                              34.01
65 ILCS 5/3-5-9               31.045
65 ILCS 5/3-10-3              31.082;
                              31.083
65 ILCS 5/3-11-25             31.111
65 ILCS 5/3-13-11             31.112
65 ILCS 5/3-14-2              31.053
65 ILCS 5/3-40-20             30.08
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5            31.005
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6            31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10           31.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15           31.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30           31.003;
                              31.006
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35           31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40           31.003;
                              31.056
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40(B)        30.05
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45           31.057;
                              31.076
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50           31.004;
                              31.022
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(D)        30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5            31.020
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10           31.023
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15           31.002
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20           31.050
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25           31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5            30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-15           31.020
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90           31.046
                              31.025;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5            31.072;
                              31.095
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10           31.057
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5            31.029
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10           31.026
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30           31.024
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35           31.021
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40           31.074;
                              31.078
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45           31.074;
                              31.079
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50           31.082
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55           31.075
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65           31.081
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70           31.081
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85           31.077
                              11.01;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90           31.047;
                              31.048
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95           31.057
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110          31.051
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15           30.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20           30.07
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25           30.02;
                              30.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40           30.11
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45           30.11
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50           30.11
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55           30.11
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5            31.032
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5            31.009
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-6            31.009
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10           34.02
65 ILCS 5/8-2-93              31.126
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1               34.01
65 ILCS 5/8-9-2               34.01
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1              130.02
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6              32.04;
                              32.99
                              130.04;
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2              130.07;
                              130.11;
                              130.41
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3              130.05
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4              130.17
65 ILCS 5/11-5-14             150.13
65 ILCS 5/11-6-1              31.140
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4              130.23
65 ILCS 5/11-16-1             31.031
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6             90.026
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7             90.026
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13            90.044
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3             90.090;
                              90.100
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3             150.10
65 ILCS 5/11-80-7             150.40
65 ILCS 5/11-80-8             150.07
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17            150.06
65 ILCS 5/11-117-12           50.03
65 ILCS 5/11-2013             90.999
65 ILCS 5/12-8                10.99
65 ILCS 8/3.1-50-15(B)        33.02
235 ILCS 5/4-2                31.030
625 ILCS                      70.12
625 ILCS 5/1-188              10.02
625 ILCS 5/1-907              71.05
625 ILCS 5/4-203              90.094
625 ILCS 5/6-101              70.12
625 ILCS 5/6-303              70.12
625 ILCS 5/11-203             70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-204             70.12
625 ILCS 5/11-204.1           70.12
625 ILCS 5/11-401             70.12
625 ILCS 5/11-403             70.12
625 ILCS 5/11-501             70.12
625 ILCS 5/11-502             71.11
625 ILCS 5/11-503             71.01
625 ILCS 5/11-504             71.03;
                              71.10
625 ILCS 5/11-601             71.06
625 ILCS 5/11-605             71.12
625 ILCS 5/11-802             71.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1303            72.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1401            72.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1403            71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2          71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1404            71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1416            71.13
625 ILCS 5/11-1503            73.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1504            71.14
625 ILCS 11                   71.04
720 ILCS                      70.12
720 ILCS 5/2-5 through 5/2-22 130.01
720 ILCS 5/11-14              130.33
720 ILCS 5/11-15              130.34
720 ILCS 5/12-5.1             130.47
720 ILCS 5/12-6               130.35
                              130.33;
720 ILCS 5/12-12              130.34;
                              130.44
720 ILCS 5/16-1               130.49
720 ILCS 5/16-2               130.48
720 ILCS 5/16-3               130.50
720 ILCS 5/16-14              50.03
720 ILCS 5/21-1.1             130.51
720 ILCS 5/24-1               70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-1.1             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-1.2             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-1.25            70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-1.6             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-2.1             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-2.2             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3               70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3A              70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3.2             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3.3             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3.4             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3.5             70.25
720 ILCS 5/24-3.6             70.25
720 ILCS 5/25-1               130.07
720 ILCS 5/31-1               130.38
720 ILCS 5/31-6(c)            130.14
720 ILCS 5/31-7               130.13
720 ILCS 5/31-8               130.39
720 ILCS 5/32-5.1             130.25
720 ILCS 5/32-9               130.20
720 ILCS 285/117              50.03
720 ILCS 505/1                130.36
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.        70.12
720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.      70.12
720 ILCS 675/1                130.42
720 ILCS 680/1 et seq.        130.43
725 ILCS 5/107-8              31.170
740 ILCS 55/221               90.001
745 ILCS 10/201 et seq.       31.008
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.        153.01
765 ILCS 735/5                50.04
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
Figure 1           152.018
1-1-20             10.99
1-1-21             10.99
1-1-22             10.99
1-2-1              30.01
1-2-2              30.02
1-2-3              30.03
1-2-4              30.05
1-2-6              30.06
1-2-7              30.07
1-2-8              30.08
1-2-11             30.09
1-2-12             30.10
1-2-14             30.11
1-2-15             30.11
1-2-16             30.11
1-2-18             11.01
1-2-19             31.001
1-2-20             31.002
1-2-21             31.003
1-2-22             31.004
1-2-23             31.005
1-2-24             31.006
1-2-25             31.007
1-2-26             31.008
1-2-27             34.01
1-2-28             34.02
1-2-29             31.009
1-2-30             34.03
1-2-31             33.01
1-2-32             33.02
1-2-33             33.03
1-2-34             33.04
1-2-35             33.05
1-2-40             31.020
1-2-41             31.021
1-2-42             31.022
1-2-44             31.023
1-2-45             31.024
1-2-46             31.025
1-2-47             31.026
1-2-48             31.027
1-2-49             31.028
1-2-50             31.029
1-2-52             31.030
1-2-53             31.031
1-2-54             31.032
1-2-56             31.045
1-2-57             31.046
1-2-58             31.047
1-2-59             31.048
1-2-60             31.049
1-2-63             31.050
1-2-64             31.051
1-2-65             31.052
1-2-66             31.053
1-2-67             31.054
1-2-68             31.055
1-2-69             31.056
1-2-70             31.057
1-2-72             31.070
1-2-73             31.071
1-2-74             31.072
1-2-75             31.073
1-2-76             31.074
1-2-77             31.075
1-2-78             31.076
1-2-79             31.077
1-2-80             31.078
1-2-81             31.079
1-2-82             31.080
1-2-83             31.081
1-2-85             31.082
1-2-86             31.083
1-2-88             31.095
1-2-89             31.096
1-2-96             31.110
1-2-97             31.111
1-2-98             31.112
1-2-99             31.113
1-2-100            31.125
1-2-101            31.126
3-1-1              91.01
3-1-2              91.02
3-1-4              91.03
3-1-5              91.04
3-1-6              91.05
3-1-7              91.06
3-1-8              91.07
3-1-9              91.08
3-1-11             91.09
3-1-12             91.10
3-1-13             91.11
3-1-14             91.12
3-1-15             91.13
3-1-16             91.14
3-1-17             91.15
3-1-18             91.16
3-1-19             91.17
3-1-20             91.18
4-1-1              91.30
4-1-2              91.31
4-1-3              91.32
4-1-4              91.33
4-1-5              91.34
4-1-6              91.35
4-1-7              91.36
4-1-8              91.37
4-1-9              91.38
4-1-10             91.39
4-1-11             91.40
4-1-12             91.41
4-1-13             91.42
4-1-14             91.43
4-1-15             91.44
4-1-16             91.45
4-1-17             91.46
4-1-18             91.47
4-1-19             91.48;
                   91.99
4-1-20             91.49;
                   91.99
4-1-21             91.99
6-3-1              151.065
6-3-2              151.066
6-3-3              151.067
6-3-4              151.068
6-3-5              151.069
6-3-6              151.070
20-1-1             151.015
20-1-2             151.016
20-1-3             151.017
20-1-4             151.018
20-1-5             151.019
20-1-6             151.020
20-1-7             151.021
20-1-8             151.022
20-1-10            151.023
20-1-11            151.024
20-1-12            151.025
20-1-13            151.026
20-1-14            151.027
20-1-15            151.028
20-1-16            151.029
20-1-17            151.030
20-1-18            151.031;
                   151.999
21-1-1             110.01
21-1-2             110.02
21-1-3             110.03
21-1-4             110.04
21-1-5             110.05
23-1-1             152.001
23-1-2             152.002
23-1-3             152.003
23-1-4             152.004
23-1-5             152.005
23-1-7             152.006
23-1-9             152.007
23-1-10            152.008
23-1-11            152.009
23-1-13            152.010
23-1-15            152.011
23-1-16            152.012
23-1-17            152.013
23-1-18            152.014
23-1-19            152.015
23-1-20            152.016
23-1-21            152.017
23-2-1             152.030
23-2-2             152.031
23-2-3             152.032
23-2-4             152.033
23-2-5             152.034
23-2-6             152.035
23-2-7             152.036
23-2-8             152.037
23-2-9             152.038
23-2-10            152.050
23-2-11            152.051
23-2-12            152.052
23-2-13            152.053
23-2-14            152.054
23-2-15            152.055
23-2-16            152.056
23-2-17            152.057
23-2-18            152.058
23-2-19            152.059
23-2-20            152.060
23-2-21            152.061
23-2-22            152.062
23-2-23            152.063
23-2-24            152.064
23-2-25            152.065
23-2-26            152.066
23-2-30            152.080
23-2-31            152.081
23-2-32            152.082
23-2-33            152.083
23-2-34            152.084
23-2-35            152.085
23-2-36            152.086
24-1-1             70.12
24-2-1             70.01
24-2-2             70.02
24-2-3             70.03
24-2-4             70.04
24-2-5             70.05
24-2-6             70.06
24-2-7             70.07
24-2-8             70.08
24-2-10            72.10
24-2-11            72.11
24-2-13            72.12
24-3-1             71.30
24-3-2             71.31
24-3-3             71.32
24-3-4             71.33
24-3-5             71.34
24-3-6             71.17
24-4-1             71.04
24-4-2             71.03
24-4-3             71.05
24-4-4             71.01
24-4-5             71.06
24-4-6             71.07
24-4-7             71.08
24-4-8             71.09
24-4-9             71.10
24-4-10            71.11
24-4-11            71.12
24-4-12            71.13
24-4-13            73.01
24-4-14            72.08
24-4-15            72.09
24-4-16            71.14
24-4-17            73.02
24-4-18            71.15
24-4-19            71.16
24-5-1             70.09;
                   72.01
24-5-2             70.10
24-5-3             70.10;
                   72.02
24-5-4             70.10;
                   72.03
24-5-5             70.11
                   71.01;
24-5-6             72.04;
                   72.99
24-5-7             71.02
24-6-1             72.05
24-6-2             72.06
24-6-3             70.99;
                   72.01
24-6-4             70.99;
                   72.02
24-6-5             70.99;
                   72.03
24-6-6             72.07
24-7-2             71.46
24-7-3             71.47
24-7-4             71.48
24-8-1             90.091
24-8-2             90.092
24-8-3             90.093
24-8-4             90.094
24-8-5             90.095
24-8-6             90.096
24-8-7             90.097
24-8-8             90.098
24-8-9             90.099
24-8-10            90.100
24-8-11            90.101
24-8-12            90.102
24-8-13            90.103
25-1-1             90.001
25-1-3             90.002
25-1-4             90.003
25-1-5             90.004
25-1-6             90.005
25-1-8             90.006
25-1-9             90.999
25-2-1             90.020
25-2-2             90.021
25-2-3             90.022
25-2-5             90.023
25-2-6             90.024
25-2-7             90.025
25-2-8             90.026
25-3-1             90.040
25-3-2             90.41
25-3-3             90.042
25-3-4             90.043
25-3-5             90.044
25-3-6             90.045
25-3-8             90.046
25-3-9             90.999
25-4-1             90.090;
                   90.999
27-1-1             130.01
27-1-2             130.02
27-1-3             130.03
27-1-4             130.04
27-1-5             130.05
27-1-6             130.06
27-1-7             130.07
27-1-8             130.08
27-1-9             130.07
27-1-11            130.09
27-1-12            130.10
27-1-13            130.11
27-1-14            130.12
27-1-15            130.13
27-1-16            130.14
27-1-17            130.15
27-1-18            130.16
27-1-19            130.17
27-1-20            130.18
27-1-21            130.19
27-1-22            130.20
27-1-23            130.21
27-1-24            130.22
27-1-25            130.23
27-1-26            130.24
27-1-27            130.25
27-1-28            130.26
27-1-29            130.27
27-1-30            130.28
27-1-31            130.29
27-1-32            130.30
27-1-33            130.31
27-1-34            130.32
27-1-35            130.33
27-1-36            130.34
27-1-37            130.34
27-1-38            130.35
27-1-39            130.36
27-1-40            130.37
27-1-41            130.38
27-1-42            130.39
27-1-43            130.40
27-1-44            130.41
27-1-45            130.42
27-1-46            130.43
27-1-47            130.44
27-1-48            130.45
27-1-49            130.46
27-1-50            130.47
27-1-51            130.48
27-1-52            130.49
27-1-53            130.50
27-1-54            130.51
27-1-55            130.52
27-1-56            130.53
27-2-1             90.060
27-2-2             90.061
27-2-3             90.062
27-2-4             90.063
27-2-5             90.064
27-2-6             90.065
27-2-7             90.066
27-2-8             90.067
27-2-9             90.068
27-2-10            90.069
27-2-11            90.070
27-2-12            90.071
27-2-13            90.072
27-2-14            90.073
27-2-15            90.074
27-2-16            90.075
27-2-17            90.076
27-2-18            90.077
27-2-19            90.078
27-3-2             130.54
27-3-3             130.99
27-3-3             130.54
27-7-1             71.45
28-1-1             94.01
28-1-2             94.02
28-1-3             94.03
29-1-1             151.002
29-1-2             151.002
29-1-3             151.999
30-1-1             32.01
30-1-2             32.02
30-1-3             32.03
30-1-4             32.04
30-1-5             32.05
30-1-6             32.06
30-1-7             32.99
30-2-1             31.160
30-2-3             31.161
30-2-4             31.162
30-2-5             31.163
30-2-6             31.164
30-2-7             31.165
30-2-10            31.166
30-2-11            31.167
30-2-12            31.168
30-2-13            31.169
30-2-14            31.170
30-2-15            31.171
30-2-16            31.172
30-2-17            31.173
30-2-18            31.174
30-3-1             31.140
30-3-2             31.141
30-3-3             31.142
30-3-7             31.143
30-3-8             31.144
30-3-9             31.145
30-3-10            31.146
30-3-11            31.147
30-4-1             92.01
30-4-2             92.99
30-5-1             32.20
30-5-2             32.21
30-5-3             32.22
30-5-4             32.23
30-5-5             32.24
30-5-6             32.25
30-5-7             32.26
30-5-8             32.27
30-5-9             32.28
30-5-10            32.29;
                   32.30
30-5-12            32.31
31-3-2             150.41
31-3-5             150.44
33-1-1             150.01
33-1-2             150.02;
                   150.56
33-1-3             150.03
33-1-4             150.04
33-1-5             150.05
33-1-6             150.06
33-1-7             150.07
33-1-8             150.08
33-1-9             150.09
33-1-11            150.10
33-1-12            150.11
33-1-13            150.12
33-1-15            150.13
33-2-1             150.25
33-2-2             150.26
33-2-3             150.27
33-2-4             150.28
33-2-5             150.29
33-3-1             150.40
33-3-3             150.42
33-3-4             150.43
33-4-1             150.55
33-4-3             150.57
33-4-4             150.58
33-4-5             150.59
33-4-6             150.60
33-4-7             150.61
33-4-9             150.62
33-4-10            150.63
33-4-11            150.64
36-1-1             34.04
36-1-2             34.05
36-1-3             34.06
36-2-1             34.20
36-2-2             34.21
36-2-3             34.22
36-2-4             34.23
36-2-6             34.24
36-2-7             34.25
36-2-8             34.26
36-2-9             34.99
36-3-1             34.40
36-3-2             34.41
38-1-1             50.01
38-1-2             50.02
38-2-1             50.03
38-2-2             50.04
38-2-3             50.05
38-2-4             50.06
38-2-6             50.07
38-2-7             50.08
38-2-8             50.09
38-2-9             50.10
38-2-11            51.093
38-2-12            52.17
38-2-15            51.094
38-4-1             51.001
38-4-2             51.002
38-4-3             51.003
38-4-4             51.004
38-4-5             51.005
38-4-6             51.006
38-4-7             51.007
38-4-8             51.008
38-4-9             51.020
38-4-10            51.021
38-4-11            51.022
38-4-12            51.023
38-4-13            51.024
38-4-14            51.025
38-4-15            51.026
38-4-16            51.027
38-4-17            51.028
38-4-18            51.029
38-4-19            51.030
38-4-22            51.045
38-4-23            51.046
38-4-24            51.047
38-4-25            51.048
38-4-26            51.049
38-4-27            51.050
38-4-28            51.051
38-4-29            51.052
38-4-30            51.053
38-4-31            51.054
38-4-32            51.055
38-4-36            51.070
38-4-37            51.071
38-4-38            51.072
38-4-39            51.073
38-4-40            51.074
38-4-41            51.075
38-4-42            51.076
38-4-43            51.077
38-4-48            51.078
38-4-49            51.079
38-4-50            51.080
38-4-51            51.081
38-4-52            51.082
38-4-53            51.083
38-4-54            51.084
38-4-55            51.085
38-4-56            51.086
38-4-57            51.087
38-4-58            51.088
38-4-59            51.089
38-4-60            51.090
38-4-61            51.091
38-4-62            51.091
38-4-63            51.092
38-4-64            51.999
38-4-65            51.105
38-4-66            51.106
38-4-67            51.107
38-4-68            51.108;
                   51.999
38-4-69            51.109
38-4-70            51.110
38-4-71            51.111
38-4-72            51.125
38-4-73            51.126
38-4-74            51.127
38-4-75            51.128
38-4-76            51.129
38-4-77            51.130
38-4-78            51.131
38-4-79            51.132
38-4-80            51.133
38-4-81            51.134
38-4-82            51.135
38-4-83            51.136
38-4-84            51.137
38-4-85            51.138
38-4-86            51.139
38-4-87            51.140
38-4-88            51.141
38-5-1             52.01
38-5-2             52.02
38-5-3             52.03
38-5-4             52.04;
                   52.99
38-5-5             52.05
38-5-6             52.06
38-5-7             52.07
38-5-7A            52.08
38-5-8             52.09
38-5-9             52.10
38-5-10            52.11
38-5-11            52.12
38-5-12            52.13
38-5-13            52.14
38-5-14            52.15
38-5-15            52.16
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.       Date Passed Code Section
25-4-1-8-10-97 - -         90.090;
                           90.999
1a-98          10-20-1997  30.02
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
98-3      10-6-1997   TSO Table II
98-4      10-20-1997  TSO Table I
2001-4    1-2-2001    151.001
01-02     2-5-2001    73.03;
                      73.20
2002-1    7-2-2001    151.029
                      93.01—
2005-2    11-1-2004   93.03;
                      93.99
                      151.045—
2009-3    10-6-2008   151.051;
                      151.999
2010-1    6-1-2009    Ch. 74, Schd. I
2010-2    7-20-2009   153.01—
                      153.08
2013-4    8-6-2012    31.175
2015-1    9-2-2014    73.15—
                      73.20
2018-1    8-8-2017    50.09
2019-1    6-4-2018    91.48;
                      91.99
                      111.01—
2020-07   11-4-2019   111.03;
                      111.99
2020-08   1-6-2020    110.20—
                      110.24
2015-1-A  9-8-2020    73.17;
                      73.20
2020-07-A 9-8-2020    111.02
2022-03   11-1-2021   70.25—
                      70.30
2024-2    5-1-2023    30.04
2024-03   6-5-2023    30.25—
                      30.34
2024-7-A1 9-5-2023    31.148
-         2-17-2023   TSO Table III
                      92.15—
2024-8    10-2-2023   92.18;
                      92.99
2024-9    10-2-2023   33.20—
                      33.39
                     
 
