GRANDVIEW, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 24-19, passed December 17, 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 2024-11
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF GRANDVIEW,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OR ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
GRANDVIEW, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE VILLAGE OF
GRANDVIEW:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of GRANDVIEW."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
         TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         TITLE 3: FINANCES AND TAXATION
         TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
         TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION, AND ENVIRONMENT
         TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
         TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
         TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
         TITLE 9: WATER AND SEWER
         TITLE 10: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
         TITLE 11: ZONING
         TITLE 12: SUBDIVISIONS
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
         INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code: provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets of other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office for the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provision, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED this 5 day of November, 2024.
                        /s/
                        President
ATTEST:
/s/
Clerk
AYES:         Bell, Chapman, Jarrett, Rhodes
NAYS:                                                     
PASSED:      Yes
APPROVED:   4
ABSENT:      2 - Koehne, Nation
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.   CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
2.   SAVING CLAUSE
      
3.   DEFINITIONS
      
4.   CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
      
5.   OFFICIAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
      
6.   VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
7.   VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
      
8.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
9.   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
      
10.   OPEN MEETINGS
      
11.   ETHICS
      
12.   ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
      
13.   IDENTITY PROTECTION
      
14.   ELECTRIC POWER AGGREGATION PLAN
CHAPTER 1: CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
1-1-1   Title of code
   
1-1-2   Section headings
   
1-1-3   Rules of construction
   
1-1-4   Official time
   
1-1-5   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
1-1-6   Reference to other sections
   
1-1-7   Conflicting provisions
   
1-1-8   Amendments to code
   
1-1-9   Reference to public office or officer
   
1-1-10   Errors and omissions
   
1-1-11   Ordinances repealed
   
1-1-12   Ordinances unaffected
   
1-1-13   Technical codes
   
1-1-14   Historical and statutory references
   
1-1-99   General penalty
§ 1-1-1 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Grandview shall be designated as
the Code of Grandview and may be so cited.
§ 1-1-2 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 1-1-3 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular;
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders;
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future; and
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 1-1-4 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 1-1-5 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 1-1-6 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 1-1-7 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 1-1-8 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 1-1-9 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 1-1-10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 1-1-11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 1-1-12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 1-1-13 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 1-1-14 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 1-1-99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
6/1-2-1
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Severability
   
1-2-2   Ordinances saved
§ 1-2-1 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 1-2-2 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1-3-1   Definitions
§ 1-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Sangamon County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Sangamon County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Grandview.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Grandview. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
CHAPTER 4: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
Section
   
1-4-1   Definition
   
1-4-2   Code Hearing Department established
   
1-4-3   Hearing procedures not exclusive
   
1-4-4   Hearing Officer
   
1-4-5   Instituting code hearing procedure
   
1-4-6   Subpoenas; defaults
   
1-4-7   Continuances; representation at code hearings
   
1-4-8   Hearing; evidence
   
1-4-9   Findings, decision, and order
   
1-4-10   Review under Administrative Review Law
   
1-4-11   Judgment on findings, decision, and order
   
1-4-12   Adoption by reference of Code Hearing Provisions of Municipal Code
§ 1-4-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE. Any and all ordinances of the village except for Building Code
violations that must be adjudicated pursuant 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1 et seq.
pertaining to demolition of unsafe buildings; any offense under the state’s
Vehicle Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the
movement of vehicles and except for any reportable offense under § 6-204 of the
state’s Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-2 CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The village hereby establishes a Code Hearing Department as a separate and
independent agency in the municipal government. The function of the Hearing
Department is to expedite the prosecution and correction of code violations in
the manner set forth in this chapter. The Code Hearing Department may
adjudicate any violation of the Code. The Code Hearing Department shall be
supervised by the Village President, and staff assistance shall be given by the
Office Manager.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-3 HEARING PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This chapter does not preclude the village from using other methods to
enforce the provisions of its code.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-4 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of Hearing Officer is hereby created. The Hearing Officer
shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Village Board and shall serve at the pleasure of the Village President. The
Hearing Officer shall be compensated at an hourly rate of $200 per hour plus
expenses and shall be an independent contractor.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Illinois for at least three years. Prior to conducting proceedings
under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall successfully complete a formal
training program as prescribed by 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer shall have the duty to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from all interested parties
relevant to the existence of a code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript, if any, and record of the
hearing and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision, and order stating
whether a code violation exists.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-5 INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When a police officer or other individual authorized to issue a code
violation finds a code violation to exist, he or she shall note the violation
on a multiple copy violation notice and report form that indicates the name and
address of the defendant, the type and nature of the violation, the date and
time the violation was observed, and the names of witnesses to the violation.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Code Hearing
Department where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report
and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose
on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30 nor more than 40 days
after the violation is reported.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Hearing Department and shall be part of the record of hearing, one
copy of the report form shall be returned to the individual representing the
municipality in the case so that he or she may prepare evidence of the code
violation for presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one copy
of the report form shall be served by first class mail to the defendant along
with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing. If the
violation report form requires the respondent to answer within a certain amount
of time, the village shall reply to the answer within the same amount of time
afforded to the respondent.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-6 SUBPOENAS; DEFAULTS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer may, at the
request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. If on the date set for hearing the defendant or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the defendant in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-7 CONTINUANCES; REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer in proceedings
under this chapter except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary
to protect the rights of the defendant. Lack of preparation shall not be
grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a Hearing Officer
under this chapter shall not exceed 25 days. The case for the municipality may
be presented by an attorney designated by the village. The case for the
defendant may be presented by the defendant or his or her attorney.
Corporations, limited liability companies, and other legal persons other than
natural persons shall be represented by an attorney.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-8 HEARING; EVIDENCE.
   At the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall preside, shall hear testimony, and
shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or non-existence of a code
violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this chapter. The proceedings shall
be electronically recorded, and any party to the proceedings may, at his, her,
or its discretion, have the proceedings transcribed by a court reporter.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-9 FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether or not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing
and shall be designated as findings, decision, and order. The findings,
decision, and order shall include: the Hearing Officer’s findings of fact; a
decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon the findings of
fact; and an order that states the sanction or dismisses the case if a
violation is not proved. A monetary sanction for a violation under this chapter
shall not exceed $750 or the amount specified in the relevant section of this
Code governing the offense, whichever is the lesser. A copy of the findings,
decision, and order shall be served on the defendant within five days after it
is issued. Service shall be in the same manner that the report form and summons
are served under §
1-4-5. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall
be by payment to the Village Clerk or to the Village Office, which is
authorized to receive fine money on behalf of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-10 REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW.
   The findings, decision, and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of the county in which the municipality is located.
The provisions of the Administrative Review Law, and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto, shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review of the
findings, decision, and order of a Hearing Officer under this chapter.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-11 JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of the code
violation, the village may commence a proceeding in the County Circuit Court
for purpose of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order. The
village may consolidate multiple findings, decisions, and orders against a
person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the village shall
file a certified copy of the findings, decision, and order, which shall be
accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
findings, decision, and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and
the applicable provision of this code. Service of the summons and a copy of the
petition may be by any method provided for by § 2-203 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the
total amount of fines, other sanctions, and costs imposed by the findings,
decision, and order does not exceed $2,500. If the court is satisfied that the
findings, decision, and order was entered in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and the applicable provision of the code and that the defendant
had an opportunity for a hearing under this chapter and for judicial review as
provided in this chapter:
      (1)   The court shall render judgment in favor of the village and against
the defendant for the amount indicated in the findings, decision, and order,
plus costs. The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the
same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money; and
      (2)   The court may also issue any other orders and injunctions that are
requested by the municipality to enforce the order of the Hearing Officer to
correct a code violation.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 1-4-12 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF CODE HEARING PROVISIONS OF MUNICIPAL CODE.
   Division 2.2 of Article 1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-
1 et seq. is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. In the event of a
conflict between Division 2.2 and this chapter, Division 2.2 shall control.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 2-9-2011)
CHAPTER 5: OFFICIAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-5-1   Stationary items
   
1-5-2   Unavailable printed forms and applications
§ 1-5-1 STATIONARY ITEMS.
   Be it ordained by the President and Board of Trustees that no stationery,
letterhead, or envelopes intended for use in village business shall hereafter
be printed with the name or names of elected or appointed village officials and
that no person or other entity shall hereafter use such stationery, letterhead,
or envelopes for uses other than those directly related to village business. It
shall be unlawful for any person or entity to obtain such stationery,
letterhead, or envelopes printed with the name or names of elected or appointed
village officials and it shall be unlawful for any person or entity to use such
stationery, letterhead, or envelope or facsimiles thereof in political
campaigns or for purposes not directly related to village business. Any
unlawful use of village stationery, letterhead, or envelopes, or facsimiles
thereof, may be enjoined or may be subject to a fine, or both. The use of each
piece of stationery, letterhead, or envelope, or facsimiles thereof, shall be
considered a separate offense, and the fine to be imposed upon conviction of
unlawful use of such stationery, letterhead, or envelopes shall be no more than
$200 per offense. Any existing supply of such stationery, letterhead, or
envelopes, purchased prior to the date of the ordinance codified herein with
private funds, shall be purchased by the village at the original cost on a pro-
rata basis or shall be destroyed.
(Ord. 240, passed 3-26-1985) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 1-5-2 UNAVAILABLE PRINTED FORMS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   In all instances where the village requires the use of a printed form
or application, if such form or application is not available from the village,
the deadline for the filing of such form or application is extended for 14 days
after a new supply of forms or applications becomes available from the Clerk or
the village offices.
   (B)   In all instances where the village has required registration within a
specific time period, to be made upon forms, provided by the village, there
shall be no sanctions or penalty imposed where it can be shown that village
forms were not available within the specific time period for registration, and
the registrant filed the completed forms within a reasonable time after they
became available.
(Ord. 284, passed 12-19-1989)
CHAPTER 6: VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
1-6-1   Regular meetings
   
1-6-2   Compensation of elected and appointed officials
   
1-6-3   Committees
   
1-6-4   Trustee expenditure authority
§ 1-6-1 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regularly scheduled meeting of the President and Board of Trustees
of the village shall be on the first and third Tuesdays of each month,
commencing at 5:30 p.m. in the Village Hall.
   (B)   Any deviation from the schedule set forth in division (A) above shall
be announced at least 48 hours in advance of the regularly-scheduled time, or
the new date or time, whichever is earlier.
(Ord. 288, passed 7-17-1990; Ord. 10-18, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 1-6-2 COMPENSATION OF ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   (1)   Elected officials.
         (a)   The compensation to be paid to the Village President, whose term
of office commences on or after May 1, 2023, shall be $12,000 per annum.
         (b)   The compensation to be paid to each Village Trustee shall be
$4,800 per annum. The salaries of Trustees elected or re-elected in the 2023
municipal elections shall be increased upon the swearing in of Trustees
following the 2023 municipal elections. The salaries of Trustees elected or re-
elected at the 2025 municipal elections shall be increased upon the swearing in
of Trustees following the 2025 municipal elections.
      (2)   Appointed officials.
         (a)   The compensation to be paid to the Village Clerk shall be $5,520
per annum.
         (b)   The compensation to be paid to the Village Treasurer shall be
$18,000 per annum.
      (3)   Frequency of payment. Salaries of the Village President, Trustees,
Clerk, and Treasurer shall be paid monthly.
   (B)   The salary of the Clerk elected after the date of this section shall
be $55 per regular meeting attended.
   (C)   Each such official shall be entitled to miss three regular meetings of
the Board of Trustees each fiscal year without loss of salary for such regular
meetings, but absence from a fourth or subsequent regular meetings shall result
in loss of salary for the missed meeting(s), unless the reason for the absence
is approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 315, passed 2-9-1993; Ord. 22-12, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 1-6-3 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following named committees shall be the standing committees of the
Board of Trustees of the village:
      (1)   Water;
      (2)   Streets;
      (3)   Police;
      (4)   Sidewalks and Public Improvements;
      (5)   Public Property and Building Inspection; and
      (6)   Health, Safety, and Municipal Building.
   (B)   Each standing committee shall consist of three members of the Board of
Trustees to be appointed by the president, who shall designate and name the
person to serve as committee chairperson, with the advice and consent of the
members of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   All matters of business coming before the Board of Trustees shall be
first referred to the appropriate standing committee, which standing committee
shall consider such matter, and make a report of the recommendation of the
majority of the members of the committee before such matter is considered and
voted upon by the Board of Trustees as a whole.
   (D)   Any report of a standing committee may be deferred for final action
thereon, to the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees after the
committee report is made, upon the request of any two members of the Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   Special committees may be appointed from time to time by the President
with the advice and consent of the members of the Board of Trustees, and the
President shall designate and name the person to serve as committee chairperson
as well as the remaining members of such committee.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-28-1980)
§ 1-6-4 TRUSTEE EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Without prior approval of the full Board of Trustees, the Village
President and any Committee Chair of a Village Board committee may authorize
expenditures and enter into contracts on behalf of the village where the amount
of the transaction is $750 or less.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize entering into
contracts or making expenditures which are not supported by a prior
appropriation.
(Ord. 17-16, passed 12-5-2017)
CHAPTER 7: VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
1-7-1   Bonds
   
1-7-2   Ratification of expenditures
   
1-7-3   Equipment repairs
Travel and Reimbursement Policy
   
1-7-15   Adoption and posting
   
1-7-16   Purpose
   
1-7-17   Definitions
   
1-7-18   Authorized types of official business
   
1-7-19   Reimbursable expenses and limits
   
1-7-20   Approval of expenses
   
1-7-21   Documentation of expenses
   
1-7-22   Entertainment expenses
Other Policies
   
1-7-35   Drug and alcohol abuse policy
   
1-7-36   Sexual harassment policy
   
1-7-37   Village Clerk and Deputy Clerk
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of appointed officers, see §
1-6-2(A)(2)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1-7-1 BONDS.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of that office, to secure faithful
performance of all duties, the Village President shall execute a bond with
security, payable to the village, in the amount of no less than $3,000.
   (B)   Before entering upon the duties of that office, to secure faithful
performance of all duties and payment of all money received by such officer,
the Village Treasurer shall execute a bond with security, payable to the
village, in an amount not less than three times the latest federal census
population total for the village.
   (C)   Before entering upon the duties of that office, to secure faithful
performance of all duties, the Village Clerk shall execute a bond with
security, payable to the village, in the amount of no less than $500.
   (D)   Upon employment by the village, to secure faithful performance of the
duties of the Office Clerk and payment of all money received by such employee,
the Village Office Clerk shall execute a bond with security, payable to the
village, in the amount of no less than $1,000.
   (E)   The security on all bonds shall be provided by a blanket position bond
to be obtained for at least the penalty amounts set forth in the preceding
sections, the premium for which shall be paid by the village.
(Ord. 231, passed 8-28-1984)
§ 1-7-2 RATIFICATION OF EXPENDITURES.
   In the event that the village cancels, fails, or is otherwise unable to
convene a meeting of the Village Board of Trustees, village staff are
authorized and directed to continue normal village operations and execute
payment of expenses requiring prompt payment in the manner described below,
without the requirement of further prior authorization or approval of the
Village Board.
   (A)   The list of ordinary expenses to be paid shall be circulated in its
normal format to the Village Board and President via email at least 48 hours in
advance of the issuance of payment.
   (B)   Any expenditures which require prompt payment shall be circulated to
the Village Board and President via email at least 48 hours in advance of the
issuance of payment.
   (C)   Any objections or questions should be directed to the Village
President or his or her designee.
   (D)   No payments shall be issued by village staff without approval of the
Village President or his or her designee.
   (E)   Any payments issued under this section shall be ratified separately
from other expenditures at the first regular Village Board meeting convened
thereafter.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 1-7-3 EQUIPMENT REPAIRS.
   (A)   In the event that village equipment that is utilized by village
employees on such a regular basis that normal village operations may not
continue without use of that equipment, the village hereby authorizes the Mayor
to approve payment of up to $5,000 without the requirement of further prior
authorization or approval of the Village Board for repairs of that essential
equipment if it is necessary to continue normal village operations.
   (B)   The expenses incurred shall be presented to the Village Board at the
first regular Village Board meeting convened thereafter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no purchase shall be made unless the
funds for such purchase have been provided for in the village’s annual budget.
(Ord. 22-14, passed 10-18-2022)
TRAVEL AND REIMBURSEMENT POLICY
§ 1-7-15 ADOPTION AND POSTING.
   (A)   The village’s Travel and Reimbursement Policy is approved.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
for any interested party in the main office of the village this policy or any
revisions of such policy.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-16 PURPOSE.
   The village will reimburse employee and officer travel, meal, and lodging
expenses incurred in connection with pre-approved travel, meal, and lodging
expenses incurred on behalf of the village.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-18 AUTHORIZED TYPES OF OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses shall be reimbursed for employees and
officers of village only for purposes of official business conducted on behalf
of the village, which includes but is not limited to off-site or out-of-town
meetings related to official business and seminars, conferences, and other
educational events related to the employee’s or officer’s official duties.
Employee travel will be approved in advance by the employee’s supervisor.
Travel of the Village President and Trustees will be approved in advance by the
Village Board. Travel of other village officers will be approved in advance by
the Village President.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-19 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES AND LIMITS.
   (A)   CMS rates for meals, lodging, and mileage.
      (1)   Reimbursable expenses for meals and lodging and for mileage will be
limited to those amounts established by the state’s Department of Central
Management Services from time to time and published on the internet (currently,
www.illinois.gov/cms/Employees/travel/Pages/Travel Reimbursement.aspx).
      (2)   The expense limits in force as of the date of the ordinance
codified herein are attached to the ordinance codified herein; however, when
the Department of CMS publishes changes in its limits, the village’s limits
shall be deemed to be changed in like amount.
   (B)   Airfare. Since official business of the village does not normally
involve air transportation, all air transportation expenses for any employee or
officer of the village must be approved by the Village Board in advance.
Travelers are expected to obtain the lowest available airfare that reasonably
meets business travel needs. Only coach or economy tickets will be paid or
reimbursed. The traveler will pay for the difference between higher priced
tickets and coach or economy tickets with his or her personal funds.
   (C)   Automobiles. If a village-owned vehicle is available, it will be used.
There will be no reimbursement of the cost of rental cars. For personal
vehicles, mileage reimbursement will be based on mileage from the Village Hall
to the off-site location of the official business, not from the employee’s or
officer’s residence. When attending a training event or other off-site official
business directly from an employee’s or officer’s residence, no reimbursement
will be made if the distance is less than the mileage of a normal commute to
the workplace. If the distance is higher than the employee’s or officer’s
normal commute, reimbursement will be paid based on the differential of the
commute less the mileage of a normal commute to the workplace.
   (D)   Other transportation. The traveler should utilize hotel shuttle
service or other shuttle services if available. If none are offered, the use of
the most economic transportation is encouraged.
   (E)   Vacation in conjunction with business travel. In cases where vacation
time is added to a business trip, any cost variance in airfare, car rental,
lodging, and/or any other expenses must be clearly identified on the travel,
meal, and lodging expense report form and paid by the traveler.
   (F)   Accompanied travel. When a traveler is accompanied by others not on
official business, any lodging, transportation, meals, or other expenses above
those incurred for the authorized traveler will not be reimbursed by the
village.
   (G)   Parking. Parking fees at a hotel or motel will be reimbursed only with
a receipt. Valet parking will not be reimbursed.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-20 APPROVAL OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by any employee in excess
of $250 must be approved in an open meeting by a majority roll-call vote of the
Village Board.
   (B)   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by the Village President
or any Village Trustee any amount must be approved by roll call vote at an open
meeting of the Village Board. Travel, meal, and lodging expenses advanced as a
per diem to any employee or any member of the Village Board must be approved by
roll call vote at an open meeting of the Village Board prior to payment.
Documentation of expenses must be provided in accordance with §§
1-7-18, 1-7-19, and 1-7-21, and any excess from the per diem must be repaid.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-21 DOCUMENTATION OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Before an expense for travel, meals, or lodging may be approved under
§
1-7-20, the following minimum documentation must first be submitted, in
writing, to the Village Board on a travel, meal, and lodging expense form:
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal, or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The date or dates and nature of the official business for which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (B)   All documents and information submitted under this section are public
records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
   (C)   The village hereby adopts as its official standardized form for the
submission of travel, meal, and lodging expenses the travel, meal, and lodging
expense report form attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 1-7-22 ENTERTAINMENT EXPENSES.
   No employee or officer shall be reimbursed for any entertainment expense,
unless ancillary to the purpose of the program, event, or other official
business.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-7-2016)
OTHER POLICIES
§ 1-7-35 DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY.
   The revised drug and alcohol abuse policy is adopted, to apply to all
drivers as that term is defined therein.
(Ord. 98-22, passed 6-2-1998)
§ 1-7-36 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any full-time, part-time, or contractual employee of the village.
   OFFICER. Any elected or appointed official of the village, regardless of
whether the official is compensated.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Has the same meaning as set forth in P.A. 100-554, namely
any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when: submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment; submission to or
rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment
decisions affecting such individual; or such conduct has the purpose or effect
of substantially interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating
an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment. For purposes of
this definition, the phrase WORKING ENVIRONMENT is not limited to a physical
location an employee is assigned to perform his or her duties and does not
require an employment relationship.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the village shall:
      (1)   Engage in sexual harassment;
      (2)   Retaliate against any person for reporting sexual harassment
allegations, either to the village pursuant to this section, under the
Whistleblower Act, or under the Human Rights Act; or
      (3)   Knowingly make a false report of sexual harassment.
   (C)   (1)   Officers and employees of the village who wish to make a report
of sexual harassment may do so verbally or in writing (memorandum, letter, or
e-mail), or both, to a supervisor, to the Village President, or the Village
Ethics Officer. Reports of sexual harassment made to a supervisor, the Village
President, or to the Village Ethics Officer shall be referred to the Village
Attorney, who will advise the village as to potential appropriate courses of
action.
      (2)   Officers and employees of the village may also, and in the
alternative, report sexual harassment to the state’s Department of Human
Rights. Information as to how to report sexual harassment to the state’s
Department of Human Rights is found on its website, https://www.illinois. gov/
dhr.
   (D)   Subject any collective bargaining agreements to which the village may
become a party, sexual harassment in violation of this section shall constitute
just cause for discipline of an employee up to and including discharge,
irrespective of and in addition to any penalties to which the violator may be
subject in some judicial or administrative forum for violation of state law. In
the case of appointed officers, engaging in sexual harassment in violation of
this section may constitute cause for removal from office.
(Ord. 17-15, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 1-7-37 VILLAGE CLERK AND DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The position of Village Clerk shall be an appointed rather than an
elected position. Beginning with the term of the person who is elected and
takes office as Village President for a two-year term in the consolidated
election of April, 2011, the Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President
with the concurrence of the Village Board. The term of office of the Village
Clerk shall be as follows:
      (1)   Two years, or until a successor is appointed and is qualified, for
the Clerk appointed by the Village President elected in the consolidated
election of April, 2011; and
      (2)   Four years, or until a successor has been appointed and is
qualified, for a Clerk appointed by a Village President elected in the
consolidated election of April, 2013 or thereafter.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Deputy Clerk is hereby created. The Deputy Clerk
shall have all the powers of the Clerk, but shall act only in the event the
Clerk is unavailable.
      (2)   The Deputy Clerk shall be appointed by the Clerk and the
compensation of the Deputy Clerk is hereby established at $15 per regular or
special meeting of the Village Board attended by the Deputy Clerk.
(Ord. 99-39, passed 12-10-1999; Ord. 05-03, passed 4-19-2005; Res. 10-05,
passed 11-16-2010)
CHAPTER 8: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
1-8-1   Employee handbook
   
1-8-2   Disciplinary policy
§ 1-8-1 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The employee handbook, as amended, is adopted and incorporated as part
of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   (1)   This version of the employee handbook, as supplemented, contains
revisions up to and including supplements dated May 4, 2022. Should an employee
have any questions, please feel free to contact the appropriate Supervisor,
Trustee, or the Village President following the appropriate chain of command.
      (2)   The employee handbook contains certain policies of the village
relating to employment. The policies serve as guidelines to help village
employees understand the personnel program of the village, clarify action to be
taken to minimize the possibility of unauthorized personnel actions, and work
together in achieving common goals.
      (3)   The contents of this employee handbook are presented for the
employee’s information. Except as otherwise specifically set forth, employment
with the village is at-will and can be terminated at any time, with or without
cause. All provisions in this employee handbook are subject to change by the
village, at any time, when it is believed to be in the best interest of the
village to do so. No policy, benefit, or procedure set forth in this employee
handbook implies or may be construed to imply that this employee handbook is an
employment contract. No promise of employment for any specific period of time
is offered or established or is to be implemented on account of any statement
in this employee handbook. No representative of the village has any authority
to enter into any agreement for employment for any specified period of time.
Any oral or written statements or promises to the contrary are expressly
disavowed and should not be relied upon by any existing or prospective
employees.
      (4)   It is intended that this employee handbook will help village
employees to understand their roles and to act appropriately in carrying out
their duties. Please note that individual departments may promulgate rules that
may be stricter, but consistent with, the rules set forth in this employee
handbook. In addition, Police Department employees are required to comply with
all Board of Police rules as well as all general orders, policies, regulations,
directives, and standard operating guidelines
      (5)   This handbook supersedes any and all other employment manuals and
policies. However, if there is any conflict between this employment handbook
and the codes and ordinances of the village, the codes and ordinances shall
prevail. Furthermore, any conflicts found within the language used in any
portion in part or in whole of this employment handbook shall prevail in the
manner deemed by the Village President as being the most advantageous to that
of the village. Any agreements or assurances relating to the terms and
conditions of employment that differ in any way with the provisions of this
handbook must be in writing and formally adopted or approved by the Board of
Trustees.
      (6)   It is anticipated that this employee handbook will be referred to
regularly. It is meant to help all employees to have a common understanding of
village policies and benefits.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 5-4-2022)
§ 1-8-2 DISCIPLINARY POLICY.
   The disciplinary policy, as amended, is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 9: DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
Section
   
1-9-1   Plan established
   
1-9-2   Plan elections
   
1-9-3   Definitions
   
1-9-4   Administration
   
1-9-5   Participation in the plan
   
1-9-6   Investment of deferred compensation
   
1-9-7   Benefits
   
1-9-8   Non-assignability
   
1-9-9   Transfers and rollovers
   
1-9-10   Loans
   
1-9-11   Amendment or termination of plan
   
1-9-12   Military service
   
1-9-13   Mistaken contributions
   
1-9-14   Relationship to other plans
§ 1-9-1 PLAN ESTABLISHED.
   The village (hereinafter the “employer”) hereby establishes the Deferred
Compensation Plan (hereinafter the “Plan”). The Plan is intended to be an
eligible deferred compensation plan under § 457 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended. The primary purpose of this Plan is to attract and retain
qualified personnel by permitting them to provide for benefits in the event of
their retirement or death. Nothing contained in this Plan shall be deemed to
constitute an employment agreement between any participant and the employer and
nothing contained herein shall be deemed to give any participant any right to
be retained in the employ of the employer.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-2 PLAN ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Plan effective date. This Plan amends and restates the Plan previously
established by the employer and is effective November 1, 2005. The Plan was
originally established by the employer effective May 1, 2001.
   (B)   Unforeseeable emergency withdrawals. Withdrawals under §
1-9-7(G) shall be available under this Plan.
   (C)   Participant’s election to receive in-service distribution. A
participant may elect to receive an in-service distribution of his or her
account balance as described in §
1-9-7(I). Yes, if the total amount payable to a participant under the Plan does
not exceed the dollar amount under § 411(a)(11)(A) of the Code (currently
$5,000).
   (D)   Distribution without participant’s consent. Small accounts of certain
inactive participants may be distributed without the participant’s consent as
described in §
1-9-7(J). No, §
1-9-7(J) shall not apply to this Plan.
   (E)   Loans. No, loans are not allowed and §
1-9-10 shall not apply to this Plan.
   (F)   Governing law. This Plan shall be construed under the laws of the
state. This Plan shall be subject to any applicable state, county, or local
deferred compensation rules and regulations.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. The account maintained for each participant reflecting the
cumulative amount of each participant’s deferred compensation, including any
income, gains, losses, or increases or decreases in market value attributable
to the investment of the participant’s deferred compensation, and further
reflecting any distributions to the participant or the beneficiary and any fees
or expenses charged against the participant’s deferred compensation.
   ANNUITY CONTRACT. If selected by the employer as an investment option, one
or more group fixed, variable, or combination fixed and variable annuity
contracts issued by the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) and
approved for sale in the employer’s state, or by another insurance company
qualified to do business in the employer’s state, which provide for periodic
payments at regular intervals, whether for a period certain or during one or
more lives, and which are non-transferable.
   BENEFICIARY or BENEFICIARIES. The person or persons designated by the
participant in his or her deferred compensation agreement who shall receive any
benefits payable hereunder in the event of the participant’s death. If more
than one designated BENEFICIARY survives the participant, payments shall be
made equally to the surviving BENEFICIARIES, unless otherwise provided in the
deferred compensation agreement, if no BENEFICIARY is designated in the
deferred compensation agreement or if no designated BENEFICIARY survives the
participant, then the estate of the participant shall be the BENEFICIARY.
However, a participant may designate a contingent BENEFICIARY (or
beneficiaries) who shall become the primary beneficiary (or beneficiaries)
under this Plan in the event that no primary beneficiary survives the
participant.
   CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and regulations
thereunder.
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION. The amount of Normal Compensation otherwise payable
to the participant that the participant and the employer mutually agree to
defer hereunder, any amount credited to a participant’s account by reason of a
transfer under §
1-9-9(A), or any other amount that the employer agrees to credit to a
participant’s account and that does not exceed the maximum limitation.
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT. An agreement entered into between a
participant and the employer and any amendments or modifications thereof, which
agreement shall fix the amount of deferred compensation; specify the
participant’s investment selection with respect to his or her deferred
compensation; designate the participant’s beneficiary or beneficiaries and
incorporate the terms, conditions, and provisions of this Plan by reference.
   ELIGIBLE RETIREMENT PLAN. A plan described in Code § 402(c)(8)(B) to which
an eligible rollover distribution may be transferred pursuant to Code § 457(e)
(16).
   ELIGIBLE ROLLOVER DISTRIBUTION. A qualifying distribution to a participant,
or to a spousal beneficiary of a deceased participant, that is described in
Code § 402(c)(4).
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual, whether appointed, elected, or under contract,
providing services for the employer for which compensation is paid.
   EMPLOYER. The entity identified in Article I, which entity is a state,
political subdivision of a state, or an agency or instrumentality of a state or
political subdivision of a state.
   INCLUDIBLE COMPENSATION. For a taxable year, the participant’s compensation,
as defined in Code § 415(c)(3), for services performed for the employer. The
amount of INCLUDIBLE COMPENSATION shall be determined without regard to any
community property laws.
   MAXIMUM LIMITATION. The maximum amount that may be deferred under this Plan
(other than rollover amounts described in §
1-9-9 (B) for the taxable year of a participant). Such amount shall be either
the normal limitation or catch-up limitation, whichever is applicable.
      (1)   NORMAL LIMITATION. The maximum amount deferred shall not exceed the
lesser of the applicable dollar amount (as described in division (3) below) or
100% of the participant’s includible compensation, as adjusted by division (2)
below. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this division (1), for
calendar years prior to 2002, the maximum amount deferred shall not exceed such
limit or limits in effect for the applicable year pursuant to § 457 of the
Code.
      (2)   CATCH-UP LIMITATION. 
         (a)   For each one of the last three taxable years of a participant
ending before the participant’s attainment of normal retirement age, the
maximum amount deferred for each such year shall be the lesser of:
            1.   Twice the applicable dollar amount (as described in division
(3) below); or
            2.   The sum of the normal limitation, plus that portion of the
normal limitation not used in each of the prior taxable years of the
participant commencing after 1978 in which the participant was eligible to
participate in this Plan or another eligible plan of the employer, and
compensation deferred under this Plan (or such other plan) was subject to the
deferral limitations set forth in this section.
         (b)   A participant may utilize the catch-up limitation only if the
participant has not previously utilized it with respect to a different normal
retirement age under this plan or any other plan.
         (c)   For years prior to 2002, the limit under this division (2) for
any year shall not exceed $15,000.
      (3)   APPLICABLE DOLLAR AMOUNT. 
         (a)   For contributions in 2002 and in subsequent years, the
applicable dollar amount shall be the amount determined in accordance with the
following table.
 
For Taxable Years Beginning in Calendar Year The Applicable Dollar Amount
2002                                         $11,000
2003                                         $12,000
2004                                         $13,000
2005                                         $14,000
2006 or thereafter                           $15,000
 
         (b)   In the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006,
the applicable dollar amount shall be adjusted for cost-of-living increases in
accordance with Code § 457(e)(15).
      (4)   Coordination with other plans. For contribution years prior to
2002, the amount excludible from a participant’s gross income for any taxable
year under this Plan or any other plan under § 457(b) of the Code shall not
exceed $7,500 (as adjusted for cost-of-living increases in accordance with §
457(e)(15) of the Code) or such greater amount allowed under division (2)
above, less any amount excluded from gross income under §§ 403(b), 402(e)(3),
or 402(h)(1)(B) or (k) of the Code, or any amount with respect to which a
deduction is allowable by reason of a contribution to an organization under §
501(c)(18) of the Code.
      (5)   Age-based catch-up contributions.
         (a)   In addition to any other limit set forth in this section, and
subject to any limitations that may be imposed under present or future federal
tax laws and rules, a participant who will attain age 50 in the calendar year
may contribute an additional amount in such year or a subsequent year,
according to the following schedule.
 
Year of Contribution Additional Catch-Up Amount
Prior to 2002        $0
2002                 $1,000
2003                 $2,000
2004                 $3,000
2005                 $4,000
2006 and later       $5,000
 
         (b)   In the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006,
the additional catch-up amount shall be adjusted for cost-of-living increases
in accordance with § 414(v)(2)(C) of the Code.
      (6)   Coordination of catch-up contributions. A participant may not
utilize both the catch-up limitation and the age-based catch-up contribution in
the same year. The age-based catch-up contribution shall not apply for any
taxable year for which a higher catch-up limitation applies.
      (7)   Excess deferrals. Any amount deferred in excess of the maximum
limitation or age-based catch-up contribution shall be distributed to the
participant, with allocable net income, as soon as administratively practicable
after the Plan determines that the amount is an excess deferral. An excess
deferral as a result of a failure to comply with the individual limitation
under Treas. Reg. § 1.457-5 for a taxable year may be distributed to the
participant, with allocable net income, as soon as administratively practicable
after the Plan determines that the amount is an excess deferral.
   NORMAL COMPENSATION. The amount of compensation that would be payable to a
participant by the employer if no deferred compensation agreement were in
effect to defer compensation under this Plan.
   NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE. 
      (1)   The age that determines the period during which a participant may
utilize the catch-up limitation of as defined above. A participant’s NORMAL
RETIREMENT AGE shall be age 70.5, unless the participant has elected an
alternative normal retirement age by written instrument delivered to the
employer prior to severance from employment.
      (2)   A participant’s alternative normal retirement age may not be
earlier than the earliest date that the participant shall become eligible to
retire and receive unreduced retirement benefits under the employer’s defined
benefit plan or money purchase plan covering that participant and may not be
later than the calendar year in which the participant attains age 70.5. If the
participant will not be eligible to receive benefits under a defined benefit
plan or money purchase plan maintained by the employer, the participant’s
NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE may not be earlier than attainment of age 65 and may not
be later than the calendar year in which the participant attains age 70.5.
      (3)   If the participant is a qualified police officer or firefighter as
defined under § 415(b)(2)(H)(ii)(l) of the Code, then such qualified police
officer or firefighter may designate an alternative NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE that
is between age 40 and age 70.5.
      (4)   Once a participant has to any extent utilized the catch-up
limitation defined above, his or her normal retirement age may not be changed.
   PARTICIPANT. Any employee who has enrolled in this Plan pursuant to the
requirements of §
1-9-5 or who has previously deferred compensation under this Plan and who has
not received a distribution of his or her entire benefit under the Plan.
   PLAN YEAR. The 12-month period commencing each January 1 and ending on the
following December 31.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC), VALIC
Retirement Services Company, or such other entity as the employer designates to
perform administrative services under this Plan.
   SEVERANCE FROM EMPLOYMENT. Termination of the participant’s employment
relationship with the employer. For years prior to 2002, references in this
Plan to SEVERANCE FROM EMPLOYMENT shall mean severance of the participant’s
employment with the employer, within the meaning of Code § 402(e)(4)(D)(i)
(lll), rather than termination of the participant’s employment relationship
with the employer.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-4 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Plan Administrator. This Plan shall be administered by the employer or
one or more persons designated by the employer. The Plan Administrator, if
other than the employer, shall act as the agent of the employer in all matters
concerning the administration of this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall have
full power to adopt, amend, and revoke such rules and regulations consistent
with and as may be necessary to implement, operate, and maintain this Plan, to
enter into contracts on behalf of the employer under this Plan, and to make
discretionary decisions affecting the rights or benefits of participants under
§
1-9-7(G).
   (B)   Employee with administrative responsibilities. Any employee who is
charged with administrative responsibilities hereunder may participate in the
Plan under the same terms and conditions as apply to other employees; however,
he or she shall not have the power to participate in any discretionary action
taken with respect to his or her participation under §
1-9-7(G).
   (C)   Administrative services. The employer may enter into an agreement with
a service provider to provide nondiscretionary administrative services under
this Plan for the convenience of the employer, including, but not limited to,
the enrollment of employees as participants, the maintenance of accounts and
other records, the making of periodic reports to participants, and the
disbursement of benefits to participants.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-5 PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN.
   (A)   Participant. An employee becomes a participant when he or she has
executed and entered into a deferred compensation agreement with the employer.
   (B)   Enrollment in the Plan. An employee may become a participant as of the
first day of any calendar month by entering into a deferred compensation
agreement with respect to compensation not yet earned. A new employee may
become a participant on the first day of employment by entering into a deferred
compensation agreement on or before the first day of employment with respect to
compensation not yet earned. The deferred compensation agreement shall defer
compensation not yet earned, and each deferred compensation agreement must be
made before the beginning of the month in which it is to become effective or,
with respect to a new employee, on or before the first day of employment.
   (C)   Minimum deferral amount. At the time of entering into or amending a
deferred compensation agreement hereunder, a participant must agree to defer a
minimum periodic amount as specified by the Plan Administrator.
   (D)   Change in amount of deferred compensation or beneficiary. A
participant may not amend or modify an executed deferred compensation agreement
to change the amount of deferred compensation except with respect to
compensation to be earned in the subsequent calendar month and provided that
notice is given prior to the beginning of the month for which such change is to
be effective. A participant may change the beneficiary designated in his or her
deferred compensation agreement at any time by giving written notice to the
Plan Administrator.
   (E)   Revocation of deferred compensation agreement. A participant may
revoke his or her deferred compensation agreement and thereafter be restored to
his or her normal compensation in the subsequent calendar month, by giving
notice to the employer prior to the beginning of the month for which such
revocation is to be effective.
   (F)   New deferred compensation agreement upon return to service or after
revocation. A participant who returns to active service with the employer after
a severance from employment, or who has revoked his or her deferred
compensation agreement under division (E) above, may again become an active
participant by executing a new deferred compensation agreement with the
employer prior to the beginning of the calendar month as to which it is to be
effective.
   (G)   Leave of absence; other absences. Compensation may continue to be
deferred under this Plan with respect to a participant who is on an approved
leave of absence from the employer with compensation, and all of the rules of
this section shall apply with respect to making, amending, or revoking any
deferred compensation agreement for such a participant.
   (H)   Deferrals after severance from employment, including sick, vacation,
and back pay under an eligible plan. A participant who has not had a severance
from employment may elect to defer accumulated sick pay, accumulated vacation
pay, and back pay under this Plan in accordance with the requirements of Code §
457(b). These amounts may be deferred for any calendar month only if an
agreement providing for the deferral is entered into before the beginning of
the month in which the amounts would otherwise be paid or made available and
the participant is an employee on the date the amounts would otherwise be paid
or made available. Compensation that would otherwise be paid for a payroll
period that begins before severance from employment is treated as an amount
that would otherwise be paid or made available before an employee has a
severance from employment. In addition, deferrals may be made for former
employees with respect to compensation described in Treas. Reg. § 1.415(c)-2(e)
(3)(ii) (relating to certain compensation paid within two and one-half months
following severance from employment), compensation described in Treas. Reg. §
1.415(c)-2(g)(4) (relating to compensation paid to participants who are
permanently and totally disabled), and compensation relating to qualified
military service under Code § 414(u).
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-6 INVESTMENT OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Annuity contracts and other plan investments. For the purposes of
satisfying its obligation to provide benefits under this Plan, the employer
shall invest the amount of compensation deferred by each participant in annuity
contracts and other plan investments as specified in the participants’ deferred
compensation agreements. Amounts deferred under this Plan must be transferred
to a trust, custodial account, or annuity contract described in division (B)
below within a period that is not longer than is reasonable for the proper
administration of the participant accounts. Responsibility for the selection of
investment alternatives for Plan assets shall be retained by the employer, and
the employer shall have the right to modify the selection of investment
alternatives from time to time; however, participants and beneficiaries may
allocate amounts held in their accounts or otherwise credited for their benefit
under the Plan among the investment alternatives selected by the employer, and
the employer shall cause such amounts to be so allocated within a reasonable
time after the receipt of participant instructions, or may instruct the issuer,
trustee, or custodian to accept such allocation instructions directly from
participants and beneficiaries as representatives of the employer.
   (B)   Exclusive benefit. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the
contrary, all amounts held under the Plan, including amounts deferred and
earnings or other accumulations attributable thereto, shall be held for the
exclusive benefit of Plan participants and beneficiaries in annuity contracts,
or in trust or in one or more custodial accounts pursuant to one or more
separate written instruments. Any such annuity contract, trust, or custodial
account must satisfy the requirements of § 457(g)(1) of the Code. The annuity
contract, trust, or custodial account must make it impossible, prior to the
satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to participants and their
beneficiaries, for any part of the assets and income of the annuity contract,
trust, or custodial account to be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than
for the exclusive benefit of participants and their beneficiaries. For purposes
of this section, the terms participant and beneficiary shall also include
contingent beneficiaries and/or spouses, former spouses, or children of
participants for whose benefit amounts are being held under the Plan pursuant
to the terms of a domestic relations order which has been recognized under the
terms of the Plan. Any discretionary authority reserved to the employer (or to
any administrator or administrative committee) under the Plan or under any
investment held under the Plan, to the extent the exercise thereof would
otherwise be inconsistent with this section, shall be exercised for the
exclusive benefit of Plan participants and beneficiaries. Any issuer of an
annuity contract or trustee or custodian of other investments held under the
Plan shall have no authority to pay any amounts from such Plan investments to
any creditor of the employer, and shall have no duty to inquire into the
validity of any request by the employer or by an administrator or
administrative committee for distribution of amounts for the benefit of a
participant or a beneficiary under the Plan.
   (C)   Benefits based on participant’s account value. The benefits paid to a
participant or beneficiary pursuant to §
1-9-7 shall be based upon the value of the participant’s account. In no event
shall the employer’s liability to pay benefits exceed the value of the
participant’s account, and the employer shall not be liable for losses arising
from depreciation or other decline in the value of any investments acquired
under this Plan.
   (D)   Periodic reports. Each participant shall receive periodic reports, not
less frequently than annually, showing the then-current value of his or her
account.
   (E)   Employer-directed accounts. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan
to the contrary, the employer shall direct the issuer, trustee, or custodian
with respect to the investment of any contributions that are forwarded to the
issuer, trustee, or custodian prior to the date on which the participant or
beneficiary completes the necessary paperwork with the issuer, trustee, or
custodian (or takes such other action or actions as may be necessary) to direct
the investment of such amounts. Such direction shall be communicated to the
issuer, trustee, or custodian by means of a separate written agreement between
the employer and issuer, trustee, or custodian, which agreement shall include a
default investment option and a default beneficiary designation. This direction
shall be effective only until such time as the participant or beneficiary
exercises his or her right to direct the investment of such amounts and to
designate a beneficiary in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-7 BENEFITS.
   (A)   Distribution of benefits. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, a participant’s account shall become distributable upon a
participant’s attainment of age 70.5 or upon severance from employment. If the
participant has had a severance from employment, the distribution of a
participant’s account shall commence no later than April 1 of the calendar year
following the year of the participant’s attainment of age 70.5. Distributions
shall be made in accordance with one of the payment options described in
division (C) below.
   (B)   Distribution procedures. The employer may from time to time establish
procedures for participant distribution elections, provided that such
procedures are not inconsistent with the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Payment options.
      (1)   A participant (or a beneficiary as provided in division (F) below)
may elect to have the value of the participant’s account distributed in
accordance with one of the following payment options provided that such option
is available under the investment and consistent with the limitations set forth
in division (D) below:
         (a)   Life annuity;
         (b)   Life annuity with 60, 120, or 180 monthly payments guaranteed;
         (c)   Unit refund life annuity;
         (d)   Joint and last survivor annuity (spouse only);
         (e)   Lump sum;
         (f)   Term certain annuity with 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 108, 120, 132,
144, 156, 168, or 180 monthly payments guaranteed;
         (g)   Withdrawals for a specified number of years;
         (h)   Withdrawals of a specified amount; or
         (i)   Any other method of payment agreed upon between participant and
employer and accepted by the investment provider or service provider.
      (2)   If a participant fails to effect a payment option, any required
payments shall be made under a payment option designated by the employer.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the options above, any option that involves a life
contingency (or a joint life contingency) shall only be available under an
annuity contract offered or obtained under the terms of the Plan.
   (D)   Required minimum distributions.
      (1)   No payment option may be selected by the participant (or a
beneficiary) unless it satisfies the requirements of Code § 401(a)(9) and any
additional Code limitations applicable to the Plan. The provisions of this
section shall apply for purposes of determining required minimum distributions
for calendar years beginning with the 2003 calendar year. The requirements of
this section shall take precedence over any inconsistent provisions of the
Plan. All distributions required under this section shall be determined and
made in accordance with the regulations under § 401(a)(9) of the Code.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, distributions may be made
under a designation made before January 1, 1984, in accordance with § 242(b)(2)
of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA) and the provisions of
the Plan that relate to § 242(b)(2) of TEFRA.
      (2)   The participant’s entire interest shall be distributed, or begin to
be distributed, to the participant no later than the participant’s required
beginning date. If the participant dies before distributions begin, the
participant’s entire interest shall be distributed, or begin to be distributed,
no later than as follows:
         (a)   If the participant’s surviving spouse is the participant’s sole
designated beneficiary, then unless the surviving spouse elects to apply the
five-year rule (pursuant to division (D)(6) below), distributions to the
surviving spouse shall begin by December 31 of the calendar year immediately
following the calendar year in which the participant died, or by December 31 of
the calendar year in which the participant would have attained age 70.5, if
later.
         (b)   If the participant’s surviving spouse is not the participant’s
sole designated beneficiary, then unless the designated beneficiary ejects to
apply the five-year rule (pursuant to division (D)(6) below), distributions to
the designated beneficiary shall begin by December 31 of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the participant died.
         (c)   If there is no designated beneficiary as of September 30 of the
year following the year of the participant’s death, the participant’s entire
interest shall be distributed by December 31 of the calendar year containing
the fifth anniversary of the participant’s death.
         (d)   1.   If the participant’s surviving spouse is the participant’s
sole designated beneficiary and the surviving spouse dies after the participant
but before distributions to the surviving spouse begin, this division (D)(2),
other than division (D)(2)(a) above, shall apply as if the surviving spouse
were the participant.
            2.   For purposes of this division (D)(2) and division (D)(4),
unless division (D)(2)(d) applies, distributions are considered to begin on the
participant’s required beginning date. If division (D)(2)(d) applies,
distributions are considered to begin on the date distributions are required to
begin to the surviving spouse under division (D)(2)(a) above. If distributions
under an annuity purchased from an insurance company irrevocably commence to
the participant before the participant’s required beginning date (or to the
participant’s surviving spouse before the date distributions are required to
begin to the surviving spouse under division (D)(2)(a) above), the date
distributions are considered to begin is the date distributions actually
commence.
            3.   Unless the participant’s interest is distributed in the form
of an annuity purchased from an insurance company or in a single sum on or
before the required beginning date, as of the first distribution calendar year
distributions shall be made in accordance with divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) of
this section. If the participant’s interest is distributed in the form of an
annuity purchased from an insurance company, distributions thereunder shall be
made in accordance with the requirements of § 401(a)(9) of the Code.
      (3)   During the participant’s lifetime, the minimum amount that shall be
distributed for each distribution calendar year is the lesser of:
         (a)   The quotient obtained by dividing the participant’s account
balance by the distribution period in the Uniform Lifetime Table set forth in §
1.401(a)(9)-9 of the regulations, using the participant’s age as of the
participant’s birthday in the distribution calendar year; or
         (b)   If the participant’s sole designated beneficiary for the
distribution calendar year is the participant’s spouse, the quotient obtained
by dividing the participant’s account balance by the number in the Joint and
Last Survivor Table set forth in § 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the regulations, using the
participant’s and spouse’s attained ages as of the participant’s and spouse’s
birthdays in the distribution calendar year.
         (c)   Required minimum distributions shall be determined under this
division (D)(3)(c) beginning with the first distribution calendar year and up
to and including the distribution calendar year that includes the participant’s
date of death.
      (4)   (a)   If the participant dies on or after the date distributions
begin and there is a designated beneficiary, the minimum amount that shall be
distributed for each distribution calendar year after the year of the
participant’s death is the quotient obtained by dividing the participant’s
account balance by the longer of the remaining life expectancy of the
participant or the remaining life expectancy of the participant’s designated
beneficiary, determined as follows.
            1.   The participant’s remaining life expectancy is calculated
using the age of the participant in the year of death, reduced by one for each
subsequent year.
            2.   If the participant’s surviving spouse is the participant’s
sole designated beneficiary, the remaining life expectancy of the surviving
spouse is calculated for each distribution calendar year after the year of the
participant’s death using the surviving spouse’s age as of the spouse’s
birthday in that year. For distribution calendar years after the year of the
surviving spouse’s death, the remaining life expectancy of the surviving spouse
is calculated using the age of the surviving spouse as of the spouse’s birthday
in the calendar year of the spouse’s death, reduced by one for each subsequent
calendar year.
            3.   If the participant’s surviving spouse is not the participant’s
sole designated beneficiary, the designated beneficiary’s remaining life
expectancy is calculated using the age of the beneficiary in the year following
the year of the participant’s death, reduced by one for each subsequent year.
         (b)   If the participant dies on or after the date distributions begin
and there is no designated beneficiary as of September 30 of the year after the
year of the participant’s death, the minimum amount that shall be distributed
for each distribution calendar year after the year of the participant’s death
is the quotient obtained by dividing the participant’s account balance by the
participant’s remaining life expectancy calculated using the age of the
participant in the year of death, reduced by one for each subsequent year.
         (c)   Except as otherwise elected (pursuant to division (D)(6),
below), if the participant dies before the date distributions begin and there
is a designated beneficiary, the minimum amount that shall be distributed for
each distribution calendar year after the year of the participant’s death is
the quotient obtained by dividing the participant’s account balance by the
remaining life expectancy of the participant’s designated beneficiary,
determined as provided in divisions (D)(4)(a) and (D)(4)(b) above.
         (d)   If the participant dies before the date distributions begin and
there is no designated beneficiary as of September 30 of the year following the
year of the participant’s death, distribution of the participant’s entire
interest shall be completed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the
fifth anniversary of the participant’s death.
         (e)   If the participant dies before the date distributions begin, the
participant’s surviving spouse is the participant’s sole designated
beneficiary, and the surviving spouse dies before distributions are required to
begin to the surviving spouse under division (D)(2)(a) above, this division (D)
(4) shall apply as if the surviving spouse were the participant.
      (5)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY. The individual who is designated as the
beneficiary under §
1-9-6 (B) of the Plan and is the designated beneficiary under § 401(a)(9) of
the Code and § 1.401(a)(9)-1, Q&A-4, of the regulations.
         DISTRIBUTION CALENDAR YEAR. A calendar year for which a minimum
distribution is required. For distributions beginning before the participant’s
death, the first distribution calendar year is the calendar year immediately
preceding the calendar year that contains the participant’s required beginning
date. For distributions beginning after the participant’s death, the first
DISTRIBUTION CALENDAR YEAR is the calendar year in which distributions are
required to begin under division (D)(2). The required minimum distribution for
the participant’s first DISTRIBUTION CALENDAR YEAR shall be made on or before
the participant’s required beginning date. The required minimum distribution
for other distribution calendar years, including the required minimum
distribution for the DISTRIBUTION CALENDAR YEAR in which the participant’s
required beginning date occurs, shall be made on or before December 31 of that
distribution calendar year.
         LIFE EXPECTANCY. Life expectancy as computed by use of the single life
table in § 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the code.
         PARTICIPANT’S ACCOUNT BALANCE. The account balance as of the last
valuation date in the calendar year immediately preceding the distribution
calendar year (valuation calendar year) increased by the amount of any
contributions made and allocated or forfeitures allocated to the account
balance as of dates in the valuation calendar year after the valuation date and
decreased by distributions made in the valuation calendar year after the
valuation date. The ACCOUNT BALANCE for the valuation calendar year includes
any amounts rolled over or transferred to the plan either in the valuation
calendar year or in the distribution calendar year if distributed or
transferred in the valuation calendar year.
         REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE. April 1 of the calendar year following the
later of:
            1.   The calendar year in which the participant attains age 70.5;
or
            2.   The calendar year in which the participant retires.
      (6)   Participants or beneficiaries may elect, on an individual basis,
whether the five-year rule or the life expectancy rule in divisions (D)(2) and
(D)(4) above applies to distributions after the death of a participant who has
a designated beneficiary. The election must be made no later than the earlier
of September 30 of the calendar year in which distribution would be required to
begin under division (D)(2) above, or by September 30 of the calendar year
which contains the fifth anniversary of the participant’s (or, if applicable,
the surviving spouse’s) death. If neither the participant nor the beneficiary
makes an election under this division (D)(6), distributions shall be made in
accordance with divisions (D)(2) and (D)(4) above.
   (E)   Post-retirement death benefits. Should the participant die after he or
she has begun to receive benefits under a payment option, the guaranteed or
remaining payments, if any, under the payment option shall be payable to the
participant’s beneficiary commencing with the first payment due after the death
of the participant. Payment to the participant’s beneficiary must comply with §
401(a)(9) of the Code, and with any additional Code limitations applicable to
the Plan, if the beneficiary does not continue to live for the remaining period
of payments under the payment option, then the remaining benefits under the
payment option shall be paid to the beneficiary’s beneficiary or, if none, the
beneficiary’s estate. In no event shall the employer be liable for any payments
made in the name of the participant or a beneficiary before the employer or its
agent receives proof of the death of the participant or beneficiary.
   (F)   Pre-retirement death benefits. Should the participant die before he or
she has begun to receive benefits under division (A) above, a death benefit
equal to the value of the participant’s account shall be payable to the
beneficiary. Such death benefit shall be paid in a lump sum unless the
beneficiary elects a different payment option. Payment to the participant’s
beneficiary must comply with § 401(a)(9) of the Code, and with any additional
Code limitations applicable to the Plan. Should the beneficiary die before the
completion of payments under the payment option, the value of the remaining
payments under the payment option shall be paid to the beneficiary’s
beneficiary or, if none, the beneficiary’s estate.
   (G)   Unforeseeable emergency withdrawals.
      (1)   If the employer so elects under
1-9-2(B), then in the event of an unforeseeable emergency, a participant may
apply to the employer to receive that part of the value of his or her account
that is reasonably needed to satisfy the emergency need (including any amounts
that may be necessary to pay any federal, state, or local income taxes or
penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution). If such
application for withdrawal is approved by the employer, the employer shall
direct the issuer, trustee, or custodian to pay the participant such value as
the employer deems necessary to meet the emergency need.
      (2)   The regulations under § 457(d)(1)(A)(iii) of the Code define an
unforeseeable emergency as a severe financial hardship of the participant or
beneficiary resulting from an illness or accident of the participant or
beneficiary, the participant’s or beneficiary’s spouse, or the participant’s or
beneficiary’s dependent (as defined in Code § 152, and, for taxable years
beginning on or after January 1, 2005, without regard to Code § 152(b)(1), (b)
(2), and (d)(1)(B)); loss of the participant’s or beneficiary’s property due to
casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not
otherwise covered by homeowner’s insurance, e.g., as a result of a natural
disaster); or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the participant or
beneficiary. For example, the imminent foreclosure of or eviction from the
participant’s or beneficiary’s primary residence may constitute an
unforeseeable emergency. In addition, the need to pay for medical expenses,
including non-refundable deductibles, as well as for the cost of prescription
drug medication, may constitute an unforeseeable emergency. Finally, the need
to pay for the funeral expenses of a spouse or a dependent (as defined in Code
§ 152, and, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, without
regard to Code § 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B)) may also constitute an
unforeseeable emergency. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
division (G), neither the purchase of a home nor the payment of college tuition
is an unforeseeable emergency.
      (3)   A distribution on account of an unforeseeable emergency may not be
made to the extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through
reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of
the participant’s assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would
not itself cause severe financial hardship, or by cessation of deferrals under
the Plan.
   (H)   Transitional rule for annuity payment option elections. If this Plan
document constitutes an amendment and restatement of the Plan as previously
adopted by the employer and if a participant or beneficiary has commenced
receiving benefits under an annuity payment option, that annuity payment option
shall remain in effect notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan.
   (I)   Participant’s election to receive in-service distribution. If the
employer so elects under §
1-9-2(C), a participant may elect to receive an in-service distribution of the
total amount payable to him or her under the Plan if:
      (1)   Such amount does not exceed the dollar amount under § 411(a)(11)(A)
of the Code;
      (2)   No amount has been deferred under the Plan with respect to the
participant during the two- year period ending on the date of the distribution;
and
      (3)   There has been no prior distribution under the Plan to the
participant under this division (I) or under division (J) below.
   (J)   Distribution without participant’s consent. If the employer so elects
under §
1-9-2(D), the total amount payable to a participant under the Plan may be
distributed to the participant without his or her consent if:
      (1)   Such amount does not exceed $1,000;
      (2)   No amount has been deferred under the Plan with respect to the
participant during the two- year period ending on the date of the distribution;
and
      (3)   There has been no prior distribution under the Plan to the
participant under this division (J) or under division (I) above.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-8 NON-ASSIGNABILITY.
   (A)   In general. Except as provided in division (B) below, the interests of
each participant or beneficiary under the Plan are not subject to the claims of
the participant’s or beneficiary’s creditors; and no participant or beneficiary
shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, pledge, transfer, or otherwise
convey or encumber the right to receive any payments hereunder or any interest
under the Plan, which payments and interests are expressly declared to be non-
assignable and non-transferable.
   (B)   Domestic relations orders.
      (1)   Allowance of transfers. Notwithstanding division (A) above, if a
judgment, decree, or order (including approval of a property settlement
agreement) that relates to the provision of child support, alimony payments, or
the marital property rights of a spouse or former spouse, child, or other
dependent of a participant is made pursuant to a state domestic relations law
(“domestic relations order”), then the amount of the participant’s account
shall be paid in the manner and to the person or persons so directed in the
domestic relations order. Such payment shall be made without regard to whether
the participant is eligible for a distribution of benefits under the Plan. The
Plan Administrator shall establish reasonable procedures for determining the
status of any such decree or order and for effectuating distribution pursuant
to the domestic relations order. Where necessary to carry out the terms of such
an order, a separate account may be established with respect to the spouse,
former spouse, or child who shall be entitled to make investment selections
with respect thereto in the same manner as the participant.
      (2)   Release from liability to participant. The employer’s liability to
pay benefits to a participant shall be reduced to the extent that amounts have
been paid or set aside for payment to a spouse, former spouse, child, or other
dependent pursuant to division (B)(1) above. No such transfer shall be
effectuated unless the employer or service provider has been provided with
satisfactory evidence that the employer and the service provider are released
from any further claim by the participant with respect to such amounts. The
participant shall be deemed to have released the employer and the service
provider from any claim with respect to such amounts, in any case in which the
employer or service provider has been served with legal process or otherwise
joined in a proceeding relating to such transfer, the participant has been
notified of the pendency of such proceeding in the manner prescribed by the law
of the jurisdiction in which the proceeding is pending by service of process in
such action or by mail from the employer or service provider to the
participant’s last known mailing address, and the participant fails to obtain
an order of the court in the proceeding relieving the employer or service
provider from the obligation to comply with the judgment, decree, or order. The
participant shall also be deemed to have released the employer or service
provider if the participant has consented to the transfer pursuant to the terms
of a property settlement agreement and/or a final judgment, decree, or order as
described in division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   Participation in legal proceedings. The employer and the service
provider shall not be obligated to defend against or seek to have set aside any
judgment, decree, or order described in division (B)(1) above or any legal
order relating to the garnishment of a participant’s benefits, unless the full
expense of such legal action is borne by the participant. In the event that the
participant’s action (or inaction) nonetheless causes the employer or service
provider to incur such expense, the amount of the expense may be charged
against the participant’s account and thereby reduce the employer’s obligation
to pay benefits to the participant. In the course of any proceeding relating to
divorce, separation, or child support, the employer and service provider shall
be authorized to the extent permitted by applicable laws to disclose
information relating to the participant’s account to the participant’s spouse,
former spouse, or child (including the legal representatives of the spouse,
former spouse, or child), or to a court.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-9 TRANSFERS AND ROLLOVERS.
   (A)   Transfers. This Plan shall accept and allow transfers, pursuant to §
457 of the Code, of amounts deferred by an individual under this Plan or
another eligible deferred compensation plan meeting the requirements of § 457
(g) of the Code, provided the conditions of this division (A) are met.
      (1)   Directed by individual participant or beneficiary.
         (a)   A transfer from this Plan to another eligible governmental
deferred compensation plan or from another eligible governmental deferred
compensation plan to this Plan is permitted only if the transferor plan
provides for transfers, the receiving plan provides for the receipt of
transfers, the participant or beneficiary whose amounts deferred are being
transferred shall have an amount deferred immediately after the transfer at
least equal to the amount deferred with respect to that participant or
beneficiary immediately before the transfer, and in the case of a transfer for
a participant, the participant whose amounts deferred are being transferred has
had a severance from employment with the transferring employer and is
performing services for the employer maintaining the transferee plan. Upon the
transfer of assets from this Plan under this division (A)(1), the Plan’s
liability to pay benefits to the participant or beneficiary under this Plan
shall be discharged to the extent of the amount so transferred for the
participant or beneficiary.
         (b)   Any such transferred amount shall not be treated as a deferral
subject to the limitations of the definition of maximum limitation in §
9-1-3, except that, for purposes of applying the limit of the definition of
maximum limitation in §
9-1-3, an amount deferred during any taxable year under the plan from which the
transfer is accepted shall be treated as if it had been deferred under this
Plan during such taxable year and compensation paid by the transferor employer
shall be treated as if it had been paid by the employer.
      (2)   Permissive service credit transfers.
         (a)   Subject to any limitations imposed by an investment provider, if
a participant is also a participant in a tax-qualified defined benefit
governmental plan (as defined in § 414(d) of the Code) that provides for the
acceptance of plan-to-plan transfers with respect to the participant, then the
participant may elect to have any portion of the participant’s account
transferred to the defined benefit governmental plan. A transfer under this
division (A)(2) may be made before the participant has had a severance from
employment.
         (b)   A transfer may be made under this division (A)(2) only if the
transfer is either for the purchase of permissive service credit (as defined in
§ 415(n)(3)(A) of the Code) under the receiving defined benefit governmental
plan or a repayment to which § 415 of the Code does not apply by reason of §
415(k)(3) of the Code.
   (B)   Rollovers. A participant may elect to roll an eligible rollover
distribution to an eligible retirement plan. The participant shall be provided
with a description of available rollover rights and rules in advance of such a
distribution. A distribution that is an eligible rollover distribution and that
is paid in a form other than a rollover shall be subject to mandatory
withholding of 20%, or such other mandatory withholding rate as may be imposed
under the Code from time to time. This Plan shall be permitted to accept a
rollover distribution from an eligible retirement plan (including a
distribution from an IRA) to this Plan, subject to any administrative
restrictions imposed by the Plan or by the investment provider. To the extent
required under the Code, the Plan shall separately account for any rollover
contributions it receives. Rollover contributions to the Plan before January 1,
2006, shall be subject to the same restrictions on distributions applicable to
other amounts held under the Plan. Rollover contributions to the Plan on or
after January 1, 2006, shall not be subject to the same restrictions on
distributions applicable to other amounts held under the Plan, and such
rollover contributions may be distributed at any time.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-10 LOANS.
   (A)   If the employer so elects under §
1-9-2(E), loans shall be made available to all participants on a reasonably
equivalent basis, but only to the extent permitted under the annuity contract
or other plan investment and the provisions of this section. No loan shall be
made available under this Plan unless it satisfies all of the requirements of
Code § 72(p) and any other applicable regulatory guidance, including the
limitations on the total of a participant’s non-taxable loans from all plans of
the employer for treatment as a tax-free loan.
   (B)   The making of loans under this Plan shall be subject to written
guidelines set forth in a separate document (or under the annuity contract),
which guidelines shall govern the availability, terms, and procedures for
participants to obtain loans under this Plan. The availability of loans under
this Plan may be suspended, terminated, or modified at any time.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-11 AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN.
   (A)   Amendment or termination. The employer may at any time amend this Plan
or terminate this Plan and distribute the participants’ accounts in conformity
with the Code; provided, however, that such amendment or termination shall not
impair the rights of participants or their beneficiaries with respect to any
compensation deferred before the date of the amendment or termination of this
Plan except as may be required to maintain the tax status of the Plan under the
Code. In the event that the Plan is terminated, amounts deferred under the Plan
(and all Plan assets) shall be distributed to all Plan participants and
beneficiaries as soon as administratively practicable after the termination of
the Plan and participants shall thereafter receive their normal compensation.
   (B)   Amendment and restatement of previously adopted Plan. If this Plan
document constitutes an amendment and restatement of the Plan as previously
adopted by the employer, the amendments contained herein shall be effective as
of the effective date, and the terms of the preceding Plan document shall
remain in effect through such date.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-12 MILITARY SERVICE.
   (A)   An employee whose employment is interrupted by qualified military
service under Code § 414(u) or who is on a leave of absence for qualified
military service under Code § 414(u) may defer additional compensation upon
resumption of employment with the employer equal to the maximum amount of
compensation that could have been deferred during that period if the employee’s
employment with the employer had continued (at the same level of compensation)
without the interruption of leave, reduced by the amount of compensation, if
any, actually deferred during the period of the interruption or leave.
   (B)   This right applies for five years following the resumption of
employment or, if sooner, for a period equal to three times the period of the
interruption or leave.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-13 MISTAKEN CONTRIBUTIONS.
   If any contribution, or any portion of a contribution, is made to the Plan
by a good faith mistake of fact, then within one year after the payment of the
contribution, and upon receipt in good order of a proper request approved by
the Plan Administrator, the amount of the mistaken contribution (adjusted for
any income or loss in value, if any, allocable thereto) shall be returned
directly to the participant or, to the extent required or permitted by the Plan
Administrator, to the employer.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 1-9-14 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER PLANS.
   This Plan serves in addition to any other retirement, pension, or benefit
plan or system presently in existence or hereinafter established.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 10-18-2005)
CHAPTER 10: OPEN MEETINGS
Section
   
1-10-1   Rules for public participation in open meetings
§ 1-10-1 RULES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN OPEN MEETINGS.
   Pursuant to § 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act, the following rules are hereby
established for public participation in open meetings of the village.
   (A)   Persons desiring to be recognized and speak at open meetings of the
Village Board or other public body of the village are encouraged, but are not
required, to notify the Village Board or other public body at least one working
day prior to the meeting of the subject matter upon which they wish to speak so
that the village and its staff can better respond to the person’s concerns.
   (B)   Persons addressing the Village Board or other public body of the
village shall be recognized at the time set forth on the agenda for the
meeting.
   (C)   Prior to addressing the Village Board or other public body of the
village, a person shall state his or her name and give a home or business
address with telephone number or email address at which the person can be
reached.
   (D)   Persons shall be recognized in the order determined by the Village
President or other officer presiding at the meeting. A person shall have the
floor for a maximum of five minutes unless that time is extended in the
discretion of the Village President or other presiding officer.
   (E)   If a group of persons share a particular concern, the group will be
encouraged, but not required, to appoint one or more spokespersons to speak on
behalf of the group.
   (F)   The Village President or other presiding officer may, in his or her
discretion, limit a person’s remark below the five minutes provided in Rule No.
4 if the person’s remarks are cumulative or duplicative of remarks already made
by some other person.
   (G)   Persons addressing the Village Board or other public body of the
village shall do so with proper decorum and respect. The Village President or
other presiding officer may terminate the presentation of any person violating
this rule. Any person found by the Village President or other presiding officer
to have violated this rule on three separate occasions within a calendar year
shall thereafter, for a period of at least one year, be required to submit
remarks or presentations to the village only in writing.
   (H)   Persons addressing the Village Board or other public body at a special
meeting shall limit their remarks to items on the agenda for the special
meeting.
   (I)   Presentations to the Village Board shall be limited to a person’s
business with the village or concerns regarding village business, property,
personnel, or operations. The Village President or other presiding officer may
terminate any presentation to the Village Board which includes personal attacks
or the advancement of political, social, or other agendas unrelated to the
business, property, personnel, or operations of the village.
   (J)   Presentations to the any public body other than the Village Board
shall be limited to matters under the jurisdiction of such public body. The
presiding officer may terminate any presentation which includes personal
attacks or matters not under the jurisdiction of the public body.
   (K)   These rules are not a limit on the Village President’s or other
presiding officer’s authority to expel persons who have breached the peace at a
meeting.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 11: ETHICS
Section
   
1-11-1   Definitions
   
1-11-2   Prohibited political activities
   
1-11-3   Gift ban; general rule
   
1-11-4   Exceptions to general rule
   
1-11-5   Disposition of gifts
   
1-11-6   Ethics advisor
   
1-11-99 Penalty
§ 1-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of Presidential or
Vice-Presidential electors, but does not include activities relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
relating to collective bargaining, or that are otherwise in furtherance of the
person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off, or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The Village of Grandview.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive
compensation for employment, service credit towards pension benefits, and
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, relating to collective bargaining, or
that are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Includes:
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention; and/or
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Includes any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by an officer or by an employee, or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business with the officer or with an
employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by the officer or by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview, Illinois.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 1-11-2 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity as part
of that officer or employee’s duties, as a condition of employment, or during
any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation, or personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person either in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the Federal
Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-
in- aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 1-11-3 GIFT BAN; GENERAL RULE.
   Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or employee, and no spouse
of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 1-11-4 EXCEPTIONS TO GENERAL RULE.
   (A)   Section 1-11-3 is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code or
activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate;
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter- in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals;
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members;
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are consumed on the
premises from which they were purchased or prepared or catered. For the
purposes of this section, CATERED means food or refreshments that are purchased
ready to consume which are delivered by any means;
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death; and
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (B)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 1-11-5 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   An officer or employee, his or her spouse, or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee does not violate this chapter if the
recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited
source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under § 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered, or
succeeded.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 1-11-6 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   The Village Attorney shall be the ethics advisor for the village. As such,
the Village Attorney shall provide guidance to the officers and employees of
the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and state ethics laws.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 1-11-99 PENALTY.
   Persons violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $750 per
offense. Violations shall be prosecuted by the Village Attorney at the specific
request of a majority of corporate authorities upon motion made, seconded and
adopted. In any case where a member of the corporate authority is accused of a
violation of this chapter, such member shall abstain from any such vote. In any
case of an alleged violation of this chapter by the Village Attorney or by a
member of the corporate authorities, the village shall obtain separate counsel
to handle the prosecution. In a case where the corporate authorities believe a
criminal act has occurred, they may direct the Village Attorney to refer the
matter to the State’s Attorney for prosecution.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 12: ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
1-12-1   Definitions
   
1-12-2   Policy
   
1-12-3   Individual privacy protected
   
1-12-4   Public records available
   
1-12-5   Freedom of Information Act Officer
   
1-12-6   Requests to be in writing
   
1-12-7   Fees
   
1-12-8   Time limit for compliance with request
   
1-12-9   Extension of time limit (non-commercial purpose); notice
   
1-12-10   Unduly burdensome requests
   
1-12-11   Certain information exempt from inspection and copying
   
1-12-12   Notice of denial of request; request for review
   
1-12-13   Public access counselor; opinions
   
1-12-14   Granting of request; procedure for inspection
   
1-12-15   Written request not required for certain documents
   
1-12-16   Special provisions pertaining to certain law enforcement records
   
1-12-17   Dissemination of information about public bodies
   
1-12-18   List of categories of records
   
1-12-19   Exemptions
§ 1-12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The use of any part of a public record or records, or
information derived from public records, in any form for sale, resale, or
solicitation or advertisement for sales or services. For purposes of this
definition, requests made by news media and non-profit, scientific, or academic
organizations shall not be considered to be made for a COMMERCIAL PURPOSE when
the principal purpose of the request is to access and disseminate information
concerning news and current or passing events, for articles of opinion or
features of interest to the public, or for the purpose of academic, scientific,
or public research or education.
   COPYING. The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical, or other process, device, or means now known or
hereafter developed and available to the village.
   EXEMPT MATERIALS. Materials which are exempt from disclosure pursuant to §§
7 and 7.5 of the Freedom of Information Act.
   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA). The state’s Freedom of Information Act, 5
ILCS 140/1.1 et seq.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization, or
association, acting individually or as a group.
   PRIVATE INFORMATION. Unique identifiers, including a person’s Social
Security number, driver’s license number, employee identification number,
biometric identifiers, personal financial information, passwords, or other
access codes, medical records, home or personal telephone numbers, and personal
email addresses. PRIVATE INFORMATION also includes home address and personal
license plates, except as otherwise provided by law or when compiled without
possibility of attribution to any person.
   PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR. An Illinois Attorney General Office appointee
responsible for various duties described in § 9.5 of the state’s Freedom of
Information Act and § 7 of the Attorney General Act (15 ILCS 205/7). Contact
information for the PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR is as follows:
      Public Access Bureau
      500 S. 2nd Street
      Springfield, Illinois 62706
      217-558-0486
      publicaccess@atg.state.il.us
   PUBLIC RECORD. All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memoranda,
books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings,
electronic data processing records, electronic communications, recorded
information, and all other documentary materials pertaining to the transaction
of public business, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having been
prepared by or for, or having been or being used by, received by, in the
possession of, or under the control of the village. PUBLIC RECORD also includes
the following:
      (1)   All records relating to the obligation, receipt, and use of public
funds;
      (2)   Certified payroll records submitted to the village under § 5(a)(2)
of the Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/5) are public records; except that
contractors’ employees’ addresses, telephone numbers, and Social Security
numbers must be redacted by the village prior to disclosure;
      (3)   Arrest reports (except for arrests of persons under the age of 21
subject to the Juvenile Court Act of 1987). (See §
1-12-16 for further provisions with respect to arrest reports); and
      (4)   Criminal history records (except for arrests of persons under the
age of 21 subject to the Juvenile Court Act of 1987), including but not limited
to:
         (a)   Court records that are public;
         (b)   Records that are otherwise available under state or local law;
and
         (c)   Records in which the requesting party is the individual
identified, except as provided under § 7(l)(d)(vi) of the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/7).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview, Illinois.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-2 POLICY.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the village that all persons are
entitled to full and complete information regarding the affairs of the village.
The official acts and policies of the public officials and public employees of
the village shall be consistent with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-3 INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY PROTECTED.
   This chapter is not intended to be used to violate individual privacy or to
disrupt the duly undertaken work of the village.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-4 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Freedom of Information Act.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-5 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER.
   (A)   The village shall designate one or more officials or employees to act
as its Freedom of Information Act Officer (“FOIA Officer”). The Chief of Police
is hereby designated as deputy FOIA Officer for FOIA requests involving the
Police Department and the Village Attorney is designated as deputy FOIA Officer
in the place and stead of the FOIA Officer if the FOIA Officer is unavailable.
Except in instances when records are furnished immediately, the FOIA Officer,
or designee, shall receive requests submitted to the village under this chapter
and issue responses accordingly. All village officers and employees who receive
a FOIA request from any source whatsoever shall notify the FOIA Officer within
one working day. If the FOIA Officer is not available, the Village Attorney
shall be notified.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA Officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the village receives the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   (C)   The Village FOIA Officer and deputies shall, by May 1, 2010,
successfully complete an electronic training curriculum to be developed by the
Public Access Counselor and thereafter successfully complete an annual training
program. Thereafter, whenever a new FOIA Officer is designated by the village,
that person shall successfully complete the electronic training curriculum
within 30 days after assuming the position. Successful completion of the
required training curriculum within the periods provided shall be a
prerequisite to continue serving as a FOIA Officer.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-6 REQUESTS TO BE IN WRITING.
   (A)   All requests for inspection or copying of public records shall be in
writing and shall be addressed to the FOIA Officer.
   (B)   The requestor shall include the following information in any request
for public records:
      (1)   The requestor’s full name, mailing address, and telephone number at
which the requestor can be reached during normal business hours;
      (2)   A description of the records sought, as specific as possible;
      (3)   An indication of whether the records are requested for a commercial
purpose and whether the requestor seeks a fee waiver; and
      (4)   A statement as to whether the request is for inspection, copying,
or both.
   (C)   The FOIA Officer shall make available a form for use by requesters,
however, no request shall be denied for failure to use the form.
   (D)   All requests for inspection and copying received by the village shall
immediately be forwarded to its FOIA Officer or designee.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-7 FEES.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes and shall charge fees reasonably
calculated to reimburse its actual cost for reproducing and certifying public
records and for the use, by any person, of the equipment of the village to copy
records. Such fees exclude the costs of any search for and review of the
record, and shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction and certification,
unless otherwise provided by state statute. The charge for copying shall be
$0.10 per page for photocopies, $0.05 per page for computer printouts, and
$2.50 per audio tape, CD, or DVD. No fees shall be charged for the first 50
pages of black and white, letter or legal sized copies requested by a
requestor. If the village provides copies in color or in a size other than
letter or legal, it shall charge the actual cost for reproducing the records.
In calculating the actual cost for reproducing records or for the use of the
equipment of the village to reproduce the records, the village shall not
include the costs of any search for and review of the records or other
personnel costs associated with reproducing the records. The cost for
certifying a record shall be $1.
   (B)   Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge
where the village determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the
public interest because furnishing information can be considered as primarily
benefitting the general public. Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public
interest if the principal purpose of the request is to access and disseminate
information regarding the health, safety, and welfare or the legal rights of
the general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or
commercial benefit. For purposes of this section, COMMERCIAL BENEFIT shall not
apply to requests made by news media when the principal purpose of the request
is to access and disseminate information regarding the health, safety, and
welfare or the legal rights of the general public. In setting the amount of the
waiver or reduction, the village may take into consideration the amount of
materials requested and the cost of copying them.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-8 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH REQUEST.
   (A)   Compliance with request (non-commercial purpose). The village shall
either comply with or deny a request for public records within five business
days after its receipt. If the village fails to respond to a request within the
requisite periods in this section but thereafter provides the requester with
copies of the requested public records, the village may not impose a fee for
such copies. If the village fails to respond to a request received, it may not
treat the request as unduly burdensome under §
1-12-10. Denials shall be in writing and in accordance with §
1-12-12.
   (B)   Compliance with request (commercial purpose). The village shall
respond to a request for records to be used for a commercial purpose within 21
working days after receipt. The response shall:
      (1)   Provide to the requestor an estimate of the time required by the
village to provide the records requested and an estimate of the fees to be
charged, which the village may require the person to pay in full before copying
the requested documents;
      (2)   Deny the request pursuant to one or more of the exemptions set out
in this chapter;
      (3)   Notify the requestor that the request is unduly burdensome and
extend an opportunity to the requestor to attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions; or
      (4)   Provide the records requested.
   (C)   Village responsibilities. Unless the records are exempt from
disclosure, the village shall comply with a request within a reasonable period
considering the size and complexity of the request, and giving priority to
records requested for non-commercial purposes. No person shall knowingly obtain
a public record for a commercial purpose without disclosing that it is for a
commercial purpose, if requested to do so by the village.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-9 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT (NON-COMMERCIAL PURPOSE); NOTICE.
   (A)   The time limit prescribed in §
1-12-8(A) may be extended in each case for not more than five additional
business days from the original due date for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The requested records are stored in whole or in part at other
locations other than the office having charge of the requested records;
      (2)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records;
      (3)   The request is couched in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it;
      (4)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them;
      (5)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if they
are exempt from disclosure under the terms of the state’s Freedom of
Information Act or should be revealed only with appropriate deletions;
      (6)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the village
within the time limits prescribed by division (A)(5) above without unduly
burdening or interfering with the operations of the village; and
      (7)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all
practicable speed, with another public body or among two or more components of
a public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in the
subject matter of the request.
   (B)   The person making a request and the village may agree in writing to
extend the time for compliance for a period to be determined by the parties. If
the requestor and the village agree to extend the period for compliance, a
failure by the village to comply with any previous deadlines shall not be
treated as a denial of the request for the records.
   (C)   When additional time is required for any of the above reasons, the
FOIA Officer shall notify the person making the request, by letter, within the
five business days after receipt of the request, of the reasons for the delay
and the date by which the records will be made available or denial will be
forthcoming. In no instance may the delay in processing last longer than five
business days. A failure to render a decision within the time permitted for
extension shall be considered a denial of the request.
   (D)   If the village fails to respond to a request within the time permitted
for extension but thereafter provides the requestor with copies of the
requested public records, the village may not impose a fee for those copies. If
the village requests an extension and subsequently fails to respond to the
request, it may not treat the request as unduly burdensome under §
1-12-10.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-10 UNDULY BURDENSOME REQUESTS.
   (A)   (1)   Requests calling for all records falling within a category shall
be complied with unless compliance with the request would be unduly burdensome
for the village, there is no method of narrowing the request, and the burden on
the village strongly outweighs the public interest in the information. Before
invoking this exemption, the village shall extend to the person making the
request an opportunity to confer with it in an attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions.
      (2)   If the village responds to a categorical request by stating that
compliance would unduly burden its operation and the conditions described above
are met, it shall do so in a writing signed by the FOIA Officer specifying the
reasons why it would be unduly burdensome and the extent to which compliance
will so burden the operation of the village. Such a response shall be treated
as a denial of the request for information.
   (B)   Repeated requests for the same public records by the same person shall
be deemed unduly burdensome. Repeated requests from the same person for the
same records that are unchanged or identical to records previously provided or
properly denied under this chapter shall be deemed unduly burdensome.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-11 CERTAIN INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM INSPECTION AND COPYING.
   Information exempted by §§ 7 and 7.5 of the Freedom of Information Act shall
be exempt from inspection and copying. If a record contains both exempt and
nonexempt information, the village may elect to redact the information that is
exempt and make the remainder of the record available for inspection and
copying. Moreover, information described in the definition for “Public Record”
may be withheld if it is determined that disclosure would interfere with
pending or actually and reasonably contemplated law enforcement proceedings
conducted by any law enforcement agency, endanger the life or physical safety
of law enforcement or correctional personnel or any other person, or compromise
the security of any correctional facility.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-12 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF REQUEST; REQUEST FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The FOIA Officer, when denying a request for public record, shall
notify the requestor, by letter, of the decision to deny the information, the
reason for the denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application
of any exemption claimed, and the names and titles or positions of each person
responsible for the denial.
   (B)   Each notice of denial by the FOIA Officer shall inform the person of
the right to review by the Public Access Counselor and provide the address and
phone number for the Public Access Counselor.
   (C)   Each notice of denial shall also inform such person of his or her
right to judicial review in accordance with § 11 of the Freedom of Information
Act.
   (D)   When a request is denied on the grounds that the records are exempt
under the provisions of this chapter, the notice of denial shall specify the
exemption claimed to authorize the denial and briefly explain how the exemption
applies to the specified records withheld.
   (E)   Copies of all notices of denials shall be retained by the village in a
single central office file that is open to the public and indexed according to
the type of exemption asserted and, to the extent feasible, according to the
types of records requested.
   (F)   Any person making a request for public records shall be deemed to have
exhausted his or her administrative remedies with respect to that request if
the village fails to act within the time periods provided in §§
1-12-8 and 1-12-9.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-13 PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR; OPINIONS.
   (A)   A person whose request to inspect or copy a public record is denied by
the village may file a request for review with the Public Access Counselor
established in the office of the Attorney General not later than 60 days after
the date of the final denial. The request for review must be in writing, signed
by the requester, and include a copy of the request for access to records and
any responses from the public body.
   (B)   If the village receives a request for records, and asserts that the
records are exempt under General Exemptions (1)(C) or (1)(F), it shall, within
the time periods provided for responding to a request, provide written notice
to the requester and the Public Access Counselor of its intent to deny the
request in whole or in part. The notice shall include:
      (1)   A copy of the request for access to records;
      (2)   The proposed response from the public body; and
      (3)   A detailed summary of the public body’s basis for asserting the
exemption.
   (C)   In accordance with FOIA, upon receipt of a notice of intent to deny
from the village, the Public Access Counselor determines whether further
inquiry is warranted. Within five working days after receipt of the notice of
intent to deny, the Public Access Counselor notifies the village and the
requester whether further inquiry is warranted. If the Public Access Counselor
determines that further inquiry is warranted, the procedures set out in this
section regarding the review of denials, including the production of documents,
shall also be applicable to the inquiry and resolution of a notice of intent to
deny from the village. Times for response or compliance by the village under §§
1-12-8 and 1-12-9 shall be tolled until the Public Access Counselor concludes
his or her inquiry.
   (D)   In accordance with FOIA, upon receipt of a request for review, the
Public Access Counselor determines whether further action is warranted. If the
Public Access Counselor determines that the alleged violation is unfounded, he
or she so advises the requester and the village and no further action shall be
undertaken. In all other cases, the Public Access Counselor forwards a copy of
the request for review to the village within seven working days after receipt
and specifies the records or other documents that the village shall furnish to
facilitate the review. Within seven working days after receipt of the request
for review, the FOIA Officer shall provide copies of records requested and
shall otherwise fully cooperate with the Public Access Counselor. If the FOIA
Officer fails to furnish specified records pursuant to this section, or if
otherwise necessary, the Attorney General may issue a subpoena to any person or
public body having knowledge of or records pertaining to a request for review
of a denial of access to records under the Freedom of Information Act. By
statute, to the extent that records or documents produced by the village
contain information that is claimed to be exempt from disclosure under Appendix
A of the ordinance codified herein, the Public Access Counselor does not
further disclose that information.
   (E)   In accordance with FOIA, within seven working days after it receives a
copy of a request for review and request for production of records from the
Public Access Counselor, the FOIA Officer may, but is not required to, answer
the allegations of the request for review. The answer may take the form of a
letter, brief, or memorandum. The Public Access Counselor forwards a copy of
the answer to the person submitting the request for review, with any alleged
confidential information to which the request pertains redacted from the copy.
The requester may, but is not required to, respond in writing to the answer
within seven working days and shall provide a copy of the response to the
village. In addition to the request for review, and the answer and the response
thereto, if any, a requester or the village may furnish affidavits or records
concerning any matter germane to the review.
   (F)   (1)   In accordance with FOIA, unless the Public Access Counselor
extends the time by no more than 21 business days by sending written notice to
the requester and the village that includes a statement of the reasons for the
extension in the notice, or decides to address the matter without the issuance
of a binding opinion, the Attorney General examines the issues and the records,
makes findings of fact and conclusions of law, and issues to the requester and
the village an opinion in response to the request for review within 60 days
after its receipt. The opinion is binding upon both the requester and the
village, subject to administrative review under § 11.5 of the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/11.5).
      (2)   Upon receipt of a binding opinion concluding that a violation of
FOIA has occurred, the FOIA Officer shall either take necessary action
immediately to comply with the directive of the opinion or shall initiate
administrative review under § 11.5 of FOIA. If the opinion concludes that no
violation of FOIA has occurred, the requester may initiate administrative
review under § 11.5 of FOIA. If the village discloses records in accordance
with an opinion of the Attorney General, it is immune from all liabilities by
reason thereof and shall not be liable for penalties under FOIA.
   (G)   In accordance with FOIA, the Attorney General may also issue advisory
opinions to the village regarding compliance with FOIA. A review may be
initiated upon receipt of a written request from the Village Mayor or the
Village Attorney, which shall contain sufficient accurate facts from which a
determination can be made. The Public Access Counselor may request additional
information from the village in order to assist in the review. If the village
relies in good faith on an advisory opinion of the Attorney General in
responding to a request, it is not liable for penalties under FOIA, so long as
the facts upon which the opinion is based have been fully and fairly disclosed
to the Public Access Counselor.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-14 GRANTING OF REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION.
   When a freedom of information request is granted, the documents will be made
available for inspection at the Village Hall during regular business hours.
Copies shall be made upon request as set forth in §
1-12-7.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-15 WRITTEN REQUEST NOT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The following documents shall be made available for inspection and
copying without a written request; however, the requestor shall contact the
FOIA Officer or designee in advance to set a mutually convenient time.
   (B)   These documents, if copied, shall be subject to the copying fee set
forth in 1-12-7:
      (1)   Ordinances and written resolutions;
      (2)   The journal of the Village Board, not including executive session
minutes; and
      (3)   Any personnel code, building code, other technical code, or any
other regulation of the village adopted by the village, whether by ordinance,
resolution, or otherwise.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-16 SPECIAL PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDS.
   The following chronologically maintained arrest and criminal history
information maintained by the Village Police Department shall be furnished as
soon as practical, but in no event later than 72 hours after the arrest,
notwithstanding the time limits otherwise provided for in §
1-12-8:
   (A)   Information that identifies the individual, including the name, age,
address, and photograph, when and if available;
   (B)   Information detailing any charges relating to the arrest;
   (C)   The time and location of the arrest;
   (D)   The name of the investigating or arresting law enforcement agency;
   (E)   If the individual is incarcerated, the amount of any bail or bond; and
   (F)   If the individual is incarcerated, the time and date that the
individual was received into, discharged from, or transferred from the Village
Police Department’s custody.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-17 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC BODIES.
   The village shall prominently display at the Village Hall, make available
for inspection and copying without charge, and shall send through the mail if
requested, each of the following:
   (A)   A brief description of itself, which will include, but not be limited
to, a short summary of its purpose, a block diagram giving its functional
subdivisions, the total amount of its operating budget, the number and location
of all of its separate offices, the approximate number of full- and part-time
employees, and the identification and membership of any board, village,
committee, or council which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the
operation of the village, or which exercises control over its policies or
procedures, or to which the village is required to report and be answerable for
its operations; and
   (B)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating for the FOIA Officer or
Officers, the address where requests for public records should be directed, and
any fees allowable under §
1-12-7; and the village shall also post this information on its website, if one
is maintained.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-18 LIST OF CATEGORIES OF RECORDS.
   As to public records prepared or received after the effective date of the
ordinance codified herein, the FOIA Officer shall maintain and make available
for inspection and copying a reasonably current list of all types or categories
of records under its control. The list shall be reasonably detailed in order to
aid persons in obtaining access to public records pursuant to this chapter. The
FOIA Officer shall furnish upon request a description of the manner in which
public records stored by means of electronic data processing may be obtained in
a form comprehensible to persons lacking knowledge of computer language or
printout format.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 1-12-19 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section 7 of FOIA: general exemptions.
      (1)   The following shall be exempt from inspection and copying:
         (a)   Information specifically prohibited from disclosure by federal
or state law or rules and regulations implementing federal or state law;
         (b)   Private information, unless disclosure is required by another
provision of this Act, a state or federal law, or a court order;
         (c)   Personal information contained within public records, the
disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal
privacy, unless the disclosure is consented to in writing by the individual
subjects of the information. UNWARRANTED INVASION OF PERSONAL PRIVACY means the
disclosure of information that is highly personal or objectionable to a
reasonable person and in which the subject’s right to privacy outweighs any
legitimate public interest in obtaining the information. The disclosure of
information that bears on the public duties of public employees and officials
shall not be considered an invasion of personal privacy;
         (d)   Records in the possession of the village created in the course
of administrative enforcement proceedings, and any law enforcement or
correctional agency for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that
disclosure would:
            1.   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated
law enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement or correctional
agency that is the recipient of the request;
            2.   Interfere with active administrative enforcement proceedings
conducted by the village that is the recipient of the request;
            3.   Create a substantial likelihood that a person will be deprived
of a fair trial or an impartial hearing;
            4.   Unavoidably disclose the identity of a confidential source,
confidential information furnished only by the confidential source, or persons
who file complaints with or provide information to administrative,
investigative, law enforcement, or penal agencies; except that the identities
of witnesses to traffic accidents, traffic accident reports, and rescue reports
shall be provided by agencies of local government, except when disclosure would
interfere with an active criminal investigation conducted by the agency that is
the recipient of the request;
            5.   Disclose unique or specialized investigative techniques other
than those generally used and known or disclose internal documents of
correctional agencies related to detection, observation, or investigation of
incidents of crime or misconduct, and disclosure would result in demonstrable
harm to the agency or public body that is the recipient of the request;
            6.   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement
personnel or any other person; or
            7.   Obstruct an ongoing criminal investigation by the agency that
is the recipient of the request.
         (e)   Records that relate to or affect the security of correctional
institutions and detention facilities;
         (f)   Preliminary drafts, notes, recommendations, memoranda, and other
records in which opinions are expressed, or policies or actions are formulated,
except that a specific record or relevant portion of a record shall not be
exempt when the record is publicly cited and identified by the Village Mayor;
         (g)   1.   Trade secrets and commercial or financial information
obtained from a person or business where the trade secrets or commercial or
financial information are furnished under a claim that they are proprietary,
privileged, or confidential, and that disclosure of the trade secrets or
commercial or financial information would cause competitive harm to the person
or business, and only insofar as the claim directly applies to the records
requested.
            2.   All trade secrets and commercial or financial information
obtained by the village, including a public pension fund, from a private equity
fund or a privately held company within the investment portfolio of a private
equity fund as a result of either investing or evaluating a potential
investment of public funds in a private equity fund. The exemption contained in
this item does not apply to the aggregate financial performance information of
a private equity fund, nor to the identity of the fund’s managers or general
partners. The exemption contained in this item does not apply to the identity
of a privately held company within the investment portfolio of a private equity
fund, unless the disclosure of the identity of a privately held company may
cause competitive harm.
            3.   Nothing contained in this division (A)(7) shall be construed
to prevent a person or business from consenting to disclosure.
         (h)   Proposals and bids for any contract, grant, or agreement,
including information which if it were disclosed would frustrate procurement or
give an advantage to any person proposing to enter into a contractor agreement
with the village, until an award or final selection is made. Information
prepared by or for the village in preparation of a bid solicitation shall be
exempt until an award or final selection is made;
         (i)   Valuable formulae, computer geographic systems, designs,
drawings, and research data obtained or produced by any public body when
disclosure could reasonably be expected to produce private gain or public loss.
The exemption for “computer geographic systems” provided in this division (A)
(9) does not extend to requests made by news media as defined in § 2 of the
FOIA when the requested information is not otherwise exempt and the only
purpose of the request is to access and disseminate information regarding the
health, safety, welfare, or legal rights of the general public;
         (j)   Architects’ plans, engineers’ technical submissions, and other
construction related technical documents for projects not constructed or
developed in whole or in part with public funds and the same for projects
constructed or developed with public funds, including, but not limited to,
power generating and distribution stations and other transmission and
distribution facilities, water treatment facilities, airport facilities, sport
stadiums, convention centers, and all government owned, operated, or occupied
buildings, but only to the extent that disclosure would compromise security;
         (k)   Minutes of meetings of public bodies closed to the public as
provided in the Open Meetings Act until the public body makes the minutes
available to the public under § 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act;
         (l)   Communications between the village and its attorney or auditor
representing the village that would not be subject to discovery in litigation,
and materials prepared or compiled by or for the village in anticipation of a
criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding upon the request of the Village
Attorney advising the village, and materials prepared or compiled with respect
to internal audits of the village;
         (m)   Records relating to the village’s adjudication of employee
grievances or disciplinary cases; however, this exemption shall not extend to
the final outcome of cases in which discipline is imposed;
         (n)   Administrative or technical information associated with
automated data processing operations, including, but not limited to, software,
operating protocols, computer program abstracts, file layouts, source listings,
object modules, load modules, user guides, documentation pertaining to all
logical and physical design of computerized systems, employee manuals, and any
other information that, if disclosed, would jeopardize the security of the
system or its data or the security of materials exempt under this section;
         (o)   Records relating to collective negotiating matters between the
village and its employees or representatives, except that any final contract or
agreement shall be subject to inspection and copying;
         (p)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
determine the qualifications of an applicant for a license or employment;
         (q)   The records, documents, and information relating to real estate
purchase negotiations until those negotiations have been completed or otherwise
terminated. With regard to a parcel involved in a pending or actually and
reasonably contemplated eminent domain proceeding under the Eminent Domain Act,
records, documents, and information relating to that parcel shall be exempt
except as may be allowed under discovery rules adopted by the state’s Supreme
Court. The records, documents, and information relating to a real estate sale
shall be exempt until a sale is consummated;
         (r)   Any and all proprietary information and records related to the
operation of an intergovernmental risk management association or self-insurance
pool or jointly self-administered health and accident cooperative or pool.
Insurance or self insurance (including any intergovernmental risk management
association or self insurance pool) claims, loss or risk management
information, records, data, advice, or communications;
         (s)   Information contained in or related to examination, operating,
or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of the village
responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions or
insurance companies, unless disclosure is otherwise required by state law;
         (t)   Information that would disclose or might lead to the disclosure
of secret or confidential information, codes, algorithms, programs, or private
keys intended to be used to create electronic or digital signatures under the
Electronic Commerce Security Act;
         (u)   Vulnerability assessments, security measures, and response
policies or plans that are designed to identify, prevent, or respond to
potential attacks upon a community’s population or systems, facilities, or
installations, the destruction or contamination of which would constitute a
clear and present danger to the health or safety of the community, but only to
the extent that disclosure could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the
effectiveness of the measures or the safety of the personnel who implement them
or the public. Information exempt under this division (A)(1)(u) may include
such things as details pertaining to the mobilization or deployment of
personnel or equipment, to the operation of communication systems or protocols,
or to tactical operations;
         (v)   Maps and other records regarding the location or security of
generation, transmission, distribution, storage, gathering, treatment, or
switching facilities owned by a utility, by a power generator, or by the
state’s Power Agency; and
         (w)   Information contained in or related to proposals, bids, or
negotiations related to electric power procurement under § 1-75 of the state’s
Power Agency Act and § 16-111.5 of the Public Utilities Act that is determined
to be confidential and proprietary by the state’s Power Agency or by the
state’s Commerce Village.
      (2)   A public record that is not in the possession of the village but is
in the possession of a party with whom the agency has contracted to perform a
governmental function on behalf of the village, and that directly relates to
the governmental function and is not otherwise exempt under this Act, shall be
considered a public record of the village, for purposes of the FOIA.
   (B)   Section 7.5 of FOIA: statutory exemptions. To the extent provided for
by the statutes referenced below, the following shall be exempt from inspection
and copying:
      (1)   All information determined to be confidential under § 4002 of the
Technology Advancement and Development Act (20 ILCS 700/4002);
      (2)   Library circulation and order records identifying library users
with specific materials under the Library Records Confidentiality Act (75 ILCS
70/1 et seq.);
      (3)   Applications, related documents, and medical records received by
the Experimental Organ Transplantation Procedures Board and any and all
documents or other records prepared by the Experimental Organ Transplantation
Procedures Board or its staff relating to applications it has received;
      (4)   Information and records held by the Department of Public Health and
its authorized representatives relating to known or suspected cases of sexually
transmissible disease or any information the disclosure of which is restricted
under the state’s Sexually Transmissible Disease Control Act (410 ILCS 325/1 et
seq.);
      (5)   Information the disclosure of which is exempted under § 30 of the
Radon Industry Licensing Act (420 ILCS 44/30);
      (6)   Firm performance evaluations under § 55 of the Architectural,
Engineering, and Land Surveying Qualifications Based Selection Act (30 ILCS
535/55);
      (7)   Information the disclosure of which is restricted and exempted
under § 50 of the state’s Prepaid Tuition Act (110 ILCS 979/50);
      (8)   Information the disclosure of which is exempted under the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.), and records of any
lawfully created state or local inspector general’s office that would be exempt
if created or obtained by an Executive Inspector General’s office under that
Act;
      (9)   Information contained in a local emergency energy plan submitted to
a municipality in accordance with a local emergency energy plan ordinance that
is adopted under 65 ILCS 5/11-21.5-5;
      (10)   Information and data concerning the distribution of surcharge
moneys collected and remitted by wireless carriers under the Wireless Emergency
Telephone Safety Act (50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.);
      (11)   Law enforcement officer identification information or driver
identification information compiled by a law enforcement agency or the
Department of Transportation under § 11-212 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625
ILCS 5/11-212);
      (12)   Records and information provided to a residential health care
facility resident-sexual assault and death review team or the Executive Council
under the Abuse Prevention Review Team Act (210 ILCS 28/1 et seq.);
      (13)   Information provided to the predatory lending database created
pursuant to Article 3 of the Residential Real Property Disclosure Act (765 ILCS
77/70 et seq.), except to the extent authorized under that Article;
      (14)   Defense budgets and petitions for certification of compensation
and expenses for court appointed trial counsel as provided under §§ 10 and 15
of the Capital Crimes Litigation Act (725 ILCS 124/10 and 725 ILCS 124/15).
This division (B)(14) shall apply until the conclusion of the trial of the
case, even if the prosecution chooses not to pursue the death penalty prior to
trial or sentencing;
      (15)   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under § 4 of
the state’s Health and Hazardous Substances Registry Act (410 ILCS 525/4);
      (16)   Security portions of system safety program plans, investigation
reports, surveys, schedules, lists, data, or information compiled, collected,
or prepared by or for the Regional Transportation Authority under § 2.11 of the
Regional Transportation Authority Act (70-3 615/2.11) or the St. Clair County
Transit District under the Bi-State Transit Safety Act (45-111/1 et seq.);
      (17)   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the Personnel
Records Review;
      (18)   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the state’s School
Student Records Act (105 ILCS 10/1 et seq.); and
      (19)   Information the disclosure of which is restricted under § 5-108 of
the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/5-108).
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-5-2010)
CHAPTER 13: IDENTITY PROTECTION
Section
Identity Protection Generally
   
1-13-1   Authority
   
1-13-2   Definitions
   
1-13-3   Prohibited activities
   
1-13-4   Coordination with the Freedom of Information Act and other laws
   
1-13-5   Limited employee access to Social Security numbers
   
1-13-6   Embedded Social Security numbers
   
1-13-7   Applicability
   
1-13-8   Availability of policy
   
1-13-9   Amendments
   
1-13-10   Statement of purpose
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
1-13-25   Purpose
   
1-13-26   Scope
   
1-13-27   Definitions
   
1-13-28   Administration of the program
   
1-13-29   Identity theft prevention elements
   
1-13-30   Program management and accountability
   
1-13-31   Other legal requirements
IDENTITY PROTECTION GENERALLY
§ 1-13-1 AUTHORITY.
   This Identity Protection Policy is adopted pursuant to the state’s Identity
Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq., to protect Social Security numbers from
unauthorized disclosure. All village officers, employees, and agents shall
comply with the Identity Protection Act and this policy at all times.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Illinois Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   PERSON. Any individual in the employ of the village.
   POLICY. This Identity-Protection Policy.
   PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY. To intentionally communicate or otherwise
intentionally make available to the general public.
   REDACT. To alter or truncate data so that no more than five sequential
digits of a SSN are accessible as part of personal information.
   SSN(s). Any Social Security number provided to an individual by the Social
Security Administration.
   STATEMENT OF PURPOSE. The statement of the purpose or purposes for which the
village is collecting and using an individual’s SSN that the Act requires the
village to provide when collecting a SSN or upon request by an individual.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-3 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Neither the village nor any person may:
      (1)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual’s
SSN;
      (2)   Print an individual’s SSN on any card required for the individual
to access products or services provided by the person or entity;
      (3)   Require an individual to transmit a SSN over the internet unless
the connection is secure or the SSN is encrypted; and/or
      (4)   Print an individual’s SSN on any materials that are mailed to the
individual, through the U.S. Postal Service, any private mail service,
electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or federal law
requires the SSN to be on the document to be mailed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, SSNs may be included in applications and forms sent by mail,
including, but not limited to: any material mailed in connection with the
administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act; any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue; and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend, or terminate an account, contract, or policy or to confirm the accuracy
of the SSN. A SSN that is permissibly mailed pursuant to this division (A)(4)
will not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer that
does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the envelope
having been opened.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below or unless otherwise
provided in the Act, neither the village nor any person may:
      (1)   Collect, use, or disclose a SSN from an individual, unless:
required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or regulations, or the
collection, use, or disclosure of the SSN is otherwise necessary for the
performance of the village’s duties and responsibilities; the need and purpose
for the SSN is documented before collection of the SSN; and the SSN collected
is relevant to the documented need and purpose;
      (2)   Require an individual to use his or her SSN to access an internet
website; or
      (3)   Use the SSN for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was
collected.
   (C)   The prohibitions in division (B) above do not apply in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The disclosure of SSNs to agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a governmental entity
to another governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors if disclosure is necessary in order for the entity to perform
its duties and responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or
subcontractor, prior to such disclosure, the governmental entity first receives
from the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the contractor’s or
subcontractor’s policy that sets forth how the requirements imposed under this
Act on a governmental entity to protect an individual’s SSN will be achieved;
      (2)   The disclosure of SSNs pursuant to a court order, warrant, or
subpoena;
      (3)   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs in order to ensure the
safety of: state and local government employees; persons committed to
correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities or
retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a
state or local government agency facility;
      (4)   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs for internal
verification or administrative purposes;
      (5)   The disclosure of SSNs by a state agency to the village for the
collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or to the village
to assist with an investigation or the prevention of fraud; or
      (6)   The collection or use of SSNs to investigate or prevent fraud, to
conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a credit report from a
consumer reporting agency under the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, to
undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under the Federal Gramm
Leach Bliley Act, or to locate a missing person, a lost relative, or a person
who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed property
benefit.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-4 COORDINATION WITH THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   The village shall comply with the provisions of the state’s Freedom of
Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., and any other state law with respect to
allowing the public inspection and copying of information or documents
containing all or any portion of an individual’s SSN; however, the village
shall redact SSNs from the information or documents before allowing the public
inspection or copying of the information or documents.
   (B)   When collecting SSNs, the village shall request each SSN in a manner
that makes the SSN easy to redact if required to be released as part of a
public records request.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-5 LIMITED EMPLOYEE ACCESS TO SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or documents
that contain SSNs will have access. All employees who have access to SSNs shall
first be trained to protect the confidentiality of SSNs. The training will
include instructions on the proper handling of information that contains SSNs
from the time of collection through destruction of the information.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-6 EMBEDDED SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   Neither the village nor any person shall encode or embed a SSN in or on a
card or document, including, but not limited to, using a bar code, chip,
magnetic strip, RFID technology, or other technology, in place of removing the
SSN as required by the Act and this Policy.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-7 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   If any provision of this Policy conflicts with any provision of the
Act, the provisions of the Act shall prevail.
   (B)   This Policy does not apply to:
      (1)   The collection, use, or disclosure of a SSN as required by state or
federal law, rule, or regulation; or
      (2)   Documents that are recorded with a county recorder or required to
be open to the public under a state or federal law, rule, or regulation,
applicable case law, Supreme Court Rule, or the Constitution of the State of
Illinois; provided, however, that the village shall redact the SSN from such
document if such law, rule, or regulation permits.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-8 AVAILABILITY OF POLICY.
   All village employees shall be advised of the existence of this Policy.
Village employees who are required to use or handle information or documents
that contain SSNs have been provided a copy of this Policy, which each shall
maintain at all times. A copy of the Policy is available to all other employees
and any member of the public by requesting a copy from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-9 AMENDMENTS.
   This Policy may be amended by the village at any time. If the Policy is
amended, the village shall file a written copy of the Policy, as amended, with
the Board and shall also advise all village employees of the existence of the
amended Policy. A copy of the amended Policy will be made available to village
employees and the public as set forth in §
1-13-8.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 1-13-10 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The village shall provide an individual with the following statement of
whenever an individual is asked to provide the village with his or her SSN or
if an individual requests it.
            STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
   The Village of Grandview complies with the Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS
179/1 et seq. which requires each local and state government agency to draft,
approve, and implement an Identity Protection Policy that includes a statement
of the purpose or purposes for which the village is collecting and using an
individual’s Social Security number.
   We will only use your Social Security number for the purpose for which it
was collected. We will not:
      •   Sell, lease, loan, trade, or rent your Social Security number to a
third-party for any purpose;
      •   Publicly post or publicly display your Social Security number;
      •   Print your Social Security number on any card required for you to
access our services;
      •   Require you to transmit your Social Security number over the
internet, unless the connection is secure or your Social Security number is
encrypted; or
      •   Print your Social Security number on any materials that are mailed to
you, unless state or federal law requires that number to be on documents mailed
to you, or unless we are confirming the accuracy of your Social Security
number.
      We collect and use Social Security numbers for one or more of the
following reasons:
      •   Complaint mediation or investigation;
      •   Crime victim compensation;
      •   Vendor services, such as executing contracts and/or billing;
      •   Law enforcement investigation;
      •   Internal verification;
      •   To investigation and prevention of fraud, conducting background
checks, debt collection, and obtaining credit report from consumer reporting
agencies;
      •   Administrative services; or
      •   Other reasons that would be explained to you at the time we ask for
your Social Security number.
   The President and Board of Trustees have adopted Identity Protection Act
requirements. You may request a copy of the statement of purpose any time you
have been asked by the village to provide your Social Security number or if you
request a copy of the statement.
   If you have questions or complaints about the village’s Identity Protection
Policy, contact: Grandview Village Clerk, 2377 East Reservoir Springfield, IL
62702
(Ord. 14-06, passed 5-6-2014)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 1-13-25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Identity Theft Prevention Program (Program) is to
protect customers of the village’s utility services from identity theft. The
Program is intended to establish reasonable policies and procedures to
facilitate the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft in
connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on existing
covered accounts.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 1-13-26 SCOPE.
   This program applies to the creation, modification, and access to
identifying information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated
by the village (electric, natural gas, water, and waste water) by any and all
personnel of the village, including management personnel. This program does not
replace or repeal any previously existing policies or programs addressing some
or all of the activities that are the subject of this program, but rather it is
intended to supplement any such existing policies and programs.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 1-13-27 DEFINITIONS.
   Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings
given to them in the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules (16 C.F.R. Part 681) or the
Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.), as amended by
the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 into law on December 4,
2003 (Pub. Law No. 108-159).
   COVERED ACCOUNT. An account that the village offers or maintains, primarily
for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to
permit multiple payments of transactions (16 C.F.R. § 681.2(b)(3)(i)). A
utility account is a COVERED ACCOUNT. The term COVERED ACCOUNT also includes
other accounts offered or maintained by the village for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to customers the village or its customers from
identity theft (16 C.F.R. § 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 C.F.R. § 681.2(b)(8) and 16
C.F.R. § 603.2(a)).
   IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, Social Security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of IDENTIFYING INFORMATION are set forth in 16 C.F.R. §
603.2(a).
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 1-13-28 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The initial adoption and approval of the Identity Theft Prevention
Program shall be by Ordinance of the Village Board. Thereafter, changes to the
Program of a day-to-day operational character and decisions relating to the
interpretation and implementation of the Program may be made by the
                                            (Program Administrator). Major
changes or shifts of policy positions under the Program shall only be made by
the Village Board.
   (B)   Development, implementation, administration, and oversight of the
Program will be the responsibility of the Program Administrator. The Program
Administrator may, but shall not be required to, appoint a committee to
administer the Program. The Program Administrator shall be the head of any such
committee. The Program Administrator will report at least annually to the
Village Board regarding compliance with this Program.
   (C)   Issues to be addressed in the annual Identity Theft Prevention Report
include:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the
risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts
and activity with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the Program, if needed for
improvement
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 1-13-29 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ELEMENTS.
   (A)   Identification of relevant red floss.
      (1)   The village has considered the guidelines and the illustrative
examples of possible red flags from the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules and has
reviewed the village’s past history with instances of identity theft, if any.
      (2)   The village hereby determines that the following are the relevant
red flags for purposes of this Program given the relative size of the village
and the limited nature and scope of the services that the village provides to
its citizens:
         (a)   Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer
reporting agencies or service providers:
            1.   A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer
report or an identity verification response from a credit reporting agency;
            2.   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze
in response to a request for a consumer report;
            3.   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address
discrepancy, as defined in § 681.1(b) of the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules; and
            4.   A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
               a.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of
inquiries;
               b.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
               c.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
               d.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for
abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
         (b)   The presentation of suspicious documents:
            1.   Documents provided for identification appear to have been
altered or forged;
            2.   The photograph or physical description on the identification
is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting
the identification;
            3.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification;
            4.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the village, such as a
signature card or a recent check; and
            5.   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or
gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
         (c)   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information,
such as a suspicious address change:
            1.   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the village, for example:
               a.   The address does not match any address in the consumer
report or CRA ID Check response; or
               b.   The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File.
            2.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is
not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth;
            3.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used
by the village. For example:
               a.   The address on an application is the same as the address
provided on a fraudulent application; or
               b.   The phone number on an application is the same as the
number provided on a fraudulent application.
            4.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type
commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-
party sources used by the village. For example:
               a.   The billing address on an application is fictitious, a mail
drop, or a prison; or
               b.   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager
or answering service.
            5.   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other
persons opening an account or other customers;
            6.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of other persons opening accounts or other customers;
            7.   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails
to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or
in response to notification that the application is incomplete;
            8.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent
with personal identifying information that is on file with the village; or
            9.   If the village uses challenge questions, the person opening
the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
         (d)   The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a
covered account:
            1.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a
covered account, the village receives a request for the addition of authorized
users on the account;
            2.   A new utility account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known patterns of fraud patterns, for example, the customer fails to make
the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments;
            3.   A covered account with a stable history shows irregularities;
            4.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably
lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account,
the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors);
            5.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although usage of utility products or services continues in
connection with the customer’s covered account;
            6.   The village is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements; or
            7.   The village is notified of unauthorized usage of utility
products or services in connection with a customer’s covered account.
         (e)   Notice of possible identity theft. The village is notified by a
customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (B)   Detection of red flags.
      (1)   The employees of the village that interact directly with customers
on a day-to-day basis shall have the initial responsibility for monitoring the
information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-party
service provider in connection with the opening of new accounts and the
modification of or access to existing accounts and the detection of any red
flags that might arise. Management shall see to it that all employees who might
be called upon to assist a customer with the opening of a new account or with
modifying or otherwise accessing an existing account are properly trained such
that they have a working familiarity with the relevant red flags identified in
this Program so as to be able to recognize any red flags that might surface in
connection with the transaction. An employee who is not sufficiently trained to
recognize the red flags identified in this Program shall not open a new account
for any customer, modify any existing account, or otherwise provide any
customer with access to information in an existing account without the direct
supervision and specific approval of a management employee. Management
employees shall be properly trained such that they can recognize the relevant
red flags identified in this Program and exercise sound judgment in connection
with the response to any unresolved red flags that may present themselves in
connection with the opening of a new account or with modifying or accessing of
an existing account. Management employees shall be responsible for making the
final decision on any such unresolved red flags.
      (2)   The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the manner in which a prospective new customer may
apply for service, the information and documentation to be provided by the
prospective customer in connection with an application for a new utility
service account, the steps to be taken by the employee assisting the customer
with the application in verifying the customer’s identity and the manner in
which the information and documentation provided by the customer, and any
third-party service provider shall be maintained. Such policy shall be
generally consistent with the spirit of the Customer Identification Program
rules (31 C.F.R. § 103.121) implementing § 326(a) of the Federal Patriot Act
but need not be as detailed. The Program Administrator shall establish from
time to time a written policy setting forth the manner in which customers with
existing accounts shall establish their identity before being allowed to make
modifications to or otherwise gain access to existing accounts.
   (C)   Response to detected red flags.
      (1)   If the responsible employees of the village as set forth in the
previous section are unable, after making a good faith effort, to form a
reasonable belief that they know the true identity of a customer attempting to
open a new account or modify or otherwise access an existing account based on
the information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-party
service provider, the village shall not open the new account or modify or
otherwise provide access to the existing account as the case may be.
Discrimination in respect to the opening of new accounts or the modification or
access to existing accounts will not be tolerated by employees of the village
and shall be grounds for immediate dismissal.
      (2)   The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the steps to be taken in the event of an
unresolved red flag situation. Consideration should be given to aggravating
factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security
incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer’s account, or a
notice that a customer has provided account information to a fraudulent
individual or website. Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity
theft when a red flag is detected include:
         (a)   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
         (b)   Contacting the customer;
         (c)   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security
devices that permit access to a covered account;
         (d)   Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
         (e)   Not opening a new covered account;
         (f)   Closing an existing covered account;
         (g)   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a
covered account to a debt collector;
         (h)   Notifying law enforcement; and
         (i)   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 1-13-30 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
   (A)   Initial risk assessment - covered accounts. Utility accounts for
personal, family, and household purposes are specifically included within the
definition of “covered account” in the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules. Therefore,
the village determines that with respect to its residential utility accounts it
offers and/or maintains covered accounts. The village also performed an initial
risk assessment to determine whether the utility offers or maintains any other
accounts for which there are reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or the
utility from identity theft. In making this determination, the village
considered the methods it uses to open its accounts, the methods it uses to
access its accounts, and its previous experience with identity theft, and it
concluded that it does not offer or maintain any such other covered accounts.
   (B)   Program updates - risk assessment. The Program, including relevant red
flags, is to be updated as often as necessary but at least annually to reflect
changes in risks to customers from identity theft. Factors to consider in the
Program update include:
      (1)   An assessment of the risk factors identified above;
      (2)   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems or
procedures;
      (3)   Changes in methods of identity theft;
      (4)   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
and
      (5)   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
   (C)   Training and oversight. All staff and third-party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 1-13-31 OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Awareness of the following related legal requirements should be maintained:
   (A)   31 U.S.C. § 5318(g) - Reporting of Suspicious Activities;
   (B)   15 U.S.C. § 1681(c-1)(h) - Identity Theft Prevention; Fraud Alerts and
Active Duty Alerts - Limitations on Use of Information for Credit Extensions;
   (C)   15 U.S.C. § 1681(s-2) - Responsibilities of Furnishers of Information
to Consumer Reporting Agencies; and
   (D)   15 U.S.C. § 1681(m) - Requirements on Use of Consumer Reports.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 10-21-2008)
CHAPTER 14: ELECTRIC POWER AGGREGATION PLAN
Section
   
1-14-1   History and purpose of municipal aggregation
   
1-14-2   Definitions
   
1-14-3   Role of the village
   
1-14-4   Role of the aggregation consultant
   
1-14-5   Supplier selection
   
1-14-6   Aggregation Program agreement
   
1-14-7   Implementation procedures
   
1-14-8   Additional service terms and conditions
   
1-14-9   Information and complaint numbers
§ 1-14-1 HISTORY AND PURPOSE OF MUNICIPAL AGGREGATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the state’s Power Agency Act (“Act”), 20 ILCS 3855/1-92,
the village is authorized to aggregate the electric loads of small commercial
and retail customers located within its municipal boundaries (herein referred
to as “municipal aggregation”). As part of the municipal aggregation, the
village may select a retail electric supplier, and enter into an agreement to
facilitate the purchase of electricity and related services and equipment on
behalf of the village’s residents and small businesses.
   (B)   Additionally, the Act also states: “The corporate authorities or
county board may also exercise such authority jointly with any other
municipality or county. Two or more municipalities or counties, or a
combination of both, may initiate a process jointly to authorize aggregation by
a majority vote of each particular municipality or county as required by this
section.”
   (C)   The village does intend to jointly exercise its authority with other
communities located within the county; however, the village is not bound to
operate its aggregation program in a joint fashion on a permanent basis.
   (D)   The village seeks to collectively aggregate the retail electric loads
of eligible residents and small commercial retail accounts and to solicit bids
for the purchase of that electricity. The village intends to solicit bids
seeking various pricing options, contract terms, and options for increased
volumes of renewable energy. Residential and small commercial retail customers
often lack the resources to conduct due diligence and negotiate favorable terms
with alternate retail electric suppliers on their own. With its large quantity
of eligible electric accounts, the village has the potential to attract lower
rates than the current default tariff service rate, while also acquiring a
cleaner power supply.
   (E)   In accordance with the Act, the village passed Ord. 12-02 dated August
13, 2012, authorizing a referendum in the community on the November 6, 2012,
ballot which asks the public for authority to create an Opt-Out Aggregation
Program (“Program”) for its residents and small business customers. A copy of
the ordinance and Clerk’s certification is included in Attachment “A” to this
Plan of Governance and Operation.
   (F)   The village’s voters approved the Municipal Aggregation Referendum at
the November 6, 2012 primary election (a record of the vote in included in
Attachment “B” to the ordinance codified herein). Following the referendum, the
village retained the services of a consultant to assist with planning and
implementing the program, bidding and selecting the electricity supplier, and
advising the village on public outreach and education related to municipal
aggregation.
   (G)   The village conducted a public outreach campaign to educate village
residents and small businesses about the Program, and to gather input regarding
their preferences for the development of this Aggregation Plan of Operation and
Governance. Outreach efforts included public meetings, two statutorily required
public hearings, press releases, news articles in local and regional media, and
the discussions with organizations and residents with a background in energy
matters.
   (H)   The village will not buy or resell power, but will select through a
competitive process, and negotiate a contract with a competent and licensed
alternative retail electric supplier (ARES) to provide electric supply at
contracted rates to all members of the Aggregation Program. The ARES shall
provide accurate and understandable pricing and facilitate opt-out
notifications. The ARES will also perform ancillary services for the
aggregation members as described in this Plan.
   (I)   Because the village adopted an opt-out aggregation program, all
eligible customers located within the village will participate in the Program
unless they affirmatively elect to opt-out of the Program. By identifying the
procedures by which customers may opt-out of the Program, the village ensures
that participation is voluntary and individuals have the ability to decline to
participate. As required by law, this Plan of Operation and Governance
describes the village’s plan for:
      (1)    Providing universal access to all applicable residential customers
and equitable treatment of applicable residential customers;
      (2)    Providing demand management and energy efficiency services to each
class of customers; and
      (3)    Meeting any other legal requirements concerning aggregated
electric service.
   (J)   The village and the consultant, and the selected ARES will follow the
Plan of Operation and Governance set forth in this document. Amendments to this
Plan of Operation and Governance may be adopted in accordance with the Act at
the option of the village.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   14-DAY PERIOD. The time period during which eligible residents and small
commercial retail customers are notified of their eligibility to participate in
the Aggregation Program and provided instructions for opting out or in.
   ACT. Refers to the state’s Power Agency Act as set forth at 20 ILCS 3855/1-
92 et seq.
   AGGREGATION or MUNICIPAL AGGREGATION. The pooling of residential and small
commercial retail electrical loads located within the municipality for the
purpose of soliciting bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate for
those loads the sale and purchase of electricity and related services and
equipment in accordance with § 1-92 of the Act.
   AGGREGATION CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT. Refers to the Illinois Community
Choice Aggregation Network LLC; the independent consultant with demonstrated
expertise in electric supply contracting that has been retained by the village
to assist with the implementation of each member municipality’s Program.
   AGGREGATION MEMBER or MEMBER. A residential or small commercial retail
electric account enrolled in the village’s Municipal Aggregation Program.
   AGGREGATION PROGRAM or PROGRAM. The program developed by the village, as a
Municipal Aggregator under the Act, to provide residential and small commercial
customers in the village with retail electric supply as described in this
document.
   AGGREGATION PROGRAM AGREEMENT or AGREEMENT. The contract between the village
communities and the supplier.
   ALTERNATIVE RETAIL ELECTRIC SUPPLIER or ARES. An entity certified by the
state’s Commerce Commission to offer electric power or energy for sale, lease
or in exchange for other value received to one or more retail customers, or
that engages in the delivery or furnishing of electric power or energy to such
retail customers, and shall include, without limitation, resellers,
aggregators, and power marketers but shall not include the Electric Utility or
the village’s aggregation members. For purposes of this document, the
definition of ALTERNATIVE RETAIL ELECTRIC SUPPLIER is more completely set forth
in 220 ILCS 5/16-102.
   AMEREN ILLINOIS or AMEREN. The Ameren Illinois Utility Company, as the
entity that has a franchise, license, permit, or right to distribute furnish or
sell electricity to retail customers within the village.
   ANCILLARY SERVICES. The necessary services that must be provided in the
generation and delivery of electricity. As defined by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, they include: coordination and scheduling services (load
following, energy imbalance service, control of transmission congestion);
automatic generation control (load frequency control and the economic dispatch
of plants); contractual agreements (loss compensation service); and support of
system integrity and security (reactive power, or spinning and operating
reserves).
   ASSOCIATE AGGREGATION MEMBER or ASSOCIATE MEMBER. A nonresidential retail
electric account with annual consumption greater than 15,000 kWh that may elect
to enroll in the village’s Municipal Aggregation Program.
   BIDDER. An alternative retail electric supplier that responds to a request
for proposals from the village.
   DEFAULT TARIFF SERVICE or DEFAULT RATE. The electricity supply services
available to eligible retail customers of the utility.
   ELECTRIC UTILITY. Ameren Illinois as the entity that has a franchise,
license, permit, or right to distribute, furnish, or sell electricity to retail
customers within the village.
   ELIGIBLE RETAIL CUSTOMER. The residential and small commercial retail
customers of the Utility located within the municipal boundaries of the village
and eligible to participate in the aggregation.
   ICC. The Illinois Commerce Commission as described in 220 ILCS 5/2-101.
   IPA. The Illinois Power Agency established by Public Act 95-0481 (20 ILCS
3855/1-1 et seq.).
   INELIGIBLE RETAIL CUSTOMER. Residential and small commercial retail
customers who are not eligible to participate in the Aggregation Program and
not be required to opt-out during the 14-day period.
   kWh. Kilowatt-hour, which is the standard unit of measure of electricity
consumed.
   LOAD. The total demand for electric energy required to serve the village’s
residential and small commercial members in the aggregation.
   MIDWEST INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR (MISO). The Regional Transmission
Organization that controls the dispatch of electricity across all or parts of
11 U.S. states and the Canadian province of Manitoba, including the Ameren
Illinois region.
   MUNICIPAL AGGREGATOR. The village acting as facilitator for the process of
securing competitive retail electric rates for the aggregation members pursuant
to the authority conferred by the Act and in accordance with this Aggregation
Plan of Operation and Governance.
   OPT-OUT. The process by which a customer who would be included in the
aggregation chooses not to participate in the aggregation and to return to
Ameren’s default tariff service.
   PIPP. Percentage of Income Payment Plan (PIPP) created by the Emergency
Assistance Act, 305 ILCS 20/18 to provide a bill payment assistance program for
low-income residential customers.
   PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE or PLAN. This Aggregation Plan of Operation
and Governance.
   QUALIFIED BIDDER. A bidder that meets the minimum criteria set by the first
stage of the village’s RFP process.
   REC. Duly certified and verified renewable energy credits.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP). A formal written invitation to responsible
bidders to submit qualifications and pricing methods for electricity supply,
services, and equipment to the aggregation.
   SMALL COMMERCIAL RETAIL CUSTOMER. Those retail customers with an annual
consumption of less than 15,000 kWh per 220 ILCS 5/16-102; provided, however,
that the definition of SMALL COMMERCIAL RETAIL CUSTOMER will include such other
definition or description as may become required by law or tariff.
   SUPPLIER. An alternative retail electric supplier selected by the village to
supply electricity and related services to aggregation members under an
Aggregation Program agreement.
   SWITCHING PROCESS. The process after the 14-day period has expired when
aggregation members are switched to the selected supplier’s electric supply.
   VILLAGE or THE VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview, acting by and through its
corporate authorities, and authorized village employees.
   VILLAGE DESIGNEE. The person (or persons) empowered by the village though
ordinance to authorize and execute a contract price lock for electricity supply
on behalf of the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-3 ROLE OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Adopt ordinance. The village shall adopt an ordinance authorizing an
opt-out electric aggregation program and this Plan of Operation and Governance.
   (B)   Provide notice. The village shall be responsible for issuing all
required public notices and conducting all required public hearings concerning
this Plan, and any amendments thereto, in accordance with § 1-92 of the Act.
   (C)   Request data. After the passage of the Municipal Electricity
Aggregation Referendum, the village with the assistance of the consultant shall
submit to Ameren, in writing, a warrant demonstrating the passage of the
village’s municipal aggregation ordinance, the adoption of this Plan by the
corporate authorities, and requesting the identification of retail and small
commercial electric customer account information and generic load profiles.
   (D)   Maintain confidentiality. The village will maintain the account
information it receives in a confidential manner as required by law and will
use that information only for purposes of its Municipal Aggregation. The
village may assign access to the account information to the consultant for the
purposes of soliciting supply and service bids on behalf of the village. The
consultant is bound by confidentiality requirements in this regard, and shall
only access and utilize consumer data at the direction of the village alone.
Account information will be considered confidential and will not be disclosed
under the Freedom of Information Act.
   (E)   Review accounts. The village and consultant will review the account
list to remove ineligible accounts, provided however, that the village and
consultant shall have no responsibility to potential aggregation members or the
ARES for the accuracy of the account information provided.
   (F)   Provide information. The village shall be responsible for providing
the consultant and ARES with resources and publicly available material to
screen out customers who are not located within the municipal boundaries.
   (G)   Develop request for proposal. The village and consultant will develop
a request for proposals (RFP) for electricity services process in cooperation
with the aggregation consultant in accordance with the terms set forth in this
chapter. The village will inform the potential bidders in the RFP document of
the village’s generic load profile information as provided by Ameren.
   (H)   Evaluate proposals. The village and the consultant will receive and
evaluate proposals and select any supplier the village finds to be in the best
interest of the village’s residential and small commercial. The village is
under no obligation to enter into any service agreement with any bidder and
may, in its discretion, choose to reject all bids, or to re-bid the electric
service under the same or amended terms of this Plan.
   (I)   Authorize notifications. The village shall assist the supplier in
drafting customer notification materials during the switching and opt-out/in
process. The village shall specify the form and content of such materials, and
all communications disseminated by the supplier to residents and small
businesses during the opt-out/in process must be approved by the supplier.
   (J)   Responsibility. The village and consultant, as the facilitators of
this bidding process, are not responsible for providing electricity to the
members of the aggregation, or for billing or collecting for electricity
provided under any Aggregation Program Agreement, and has no responsibility
beyond the duties described herein. Ameren will continue to provide a single
bill to aggregation members for all electrical charges.
   (K)   Cost reimbursement. The village shall implement and offer the
Aggregation Program as a service to its members and associate members. To the
extent possible, the Program shall be revenue- neutral. Any village expenditure
related to the Aggregation Program may be recouped by the village through a per
kWh charge, determined in the agreement with the supplier, which shall be
collected by the supplier and remitted to the village. All fees paid or
collected by the village in conjunction with the Aggregation Program shall be
disclosed to aggregation members.
   (L)   Energy efficiency and demand response. The village shall refer members
and associate members interested in energy efficiency and demand response
options Ameren which operates a range of programs to support efficiency and
demand response.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-4 ROLE OF THE AGGREGATION CONSULTANT.
   (A)   Fulfill assigned duties. The aggregation consultant shall advise and
assist the village with the development and implementation of its Municipal
Aggregation Program, including advising staff and upon request elected
officials (at the request of the Village President) on all aspects of the
program; developing all necessary documents, soliciting and reviewing bids
received, making recommendations as appropriate, and monitoring the supplier’s
compliance with the requirements of the service agreement.
   (B)   Maintain independence and disclosures. As required by the Electric
Service Customer Choice Act, the consultant will be in a fiduciary relationship
with the village and owes the village and its aggregation members the duty of
loyalty and independent judgment. The consultant will be disqualified if it
acts as the agent for any ICC certified ARES. It is the duty of the consultant
to disclose any such relationships and to terminate the agreement in the event
of such a relationship. Breach of these terms will result in the village
terminating the consultant agreement.
   (C)   Arrange for fees. The consultant shall be paid directly by the
supplier upon authorization of the payment amount by the village.
   (D)   Maintain confidentiality. The village, upon receiving confidential
customer information from Ameren Illinois, shall be subject to the limitations
on the disclosure of that information described in § 2HH of the Consumer Fraud
and Deceptive Practices Act, 815 ILCS 505/2HH. If the consultant has access to
confidential customer account information at any time, the consultant agrees
not to use that information for any purposes outside the scope of the services
provided by this agreement. The consultant specifically agrees not to use for
itself, or to sell, trade, disseminate, or otherwise transfer that information
to any other party for any purpose other than this Aggregation Program. The
village will not be liable for any use of confidential information by the
consultant that violates the law or this agreement.
   (E)   Notify and inform village. The consultant shall advise the village on
any changes in laws, rules, tariffs, or any other regulatory matter that
impacts the aggregation during the term of the service agreement.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-5 SUPPLIER SELECTION.
   (A)   Competitive sourcing. The village will select a supplier for the
aggregation through a competitive solicitation process. The selection will be
based on the best value to the aggregation and not simply best price.
   (B)   Bidding process structure. The village, working in cooperation with
the consultant, shall develop a request for proposals containing the terms and
conditions required in this Plan of Operation and Governance. The solicitation
process will be conducted in accordance with all applicable state and local
laws and village acceptance of bidding practices and protocols.
   (C)   Village authority. The corporate authorities of the village will
retain the full and absolute right to accept, accept with conditions, or reject
any proposal. The village may, but is not required to, select a supplier to
provide an energy power supply for the Aggregation Program according to the
terms of this Plan. If the village does not select a supplier, the village will
notify the aggregation members that their electricity will continue to be
provided through the Ameren default tariff service.
   (D)   Pricing.
      (1)   Bidders will submit a single fixed total $/kWh rate to be charged
to provide full requirements electricity supply, capacity, transmission, and
ancillary services to aggregation member. The village’s intent in soliciting
the proposals is to provide residents with delivered electricity prices that
are always less than Ameren’s applicable rates.
      (2)   As such, bidders must commit to a rate that is below the price to
compare in all periods of the agreement. In the event the price to compare is
less than the supplier’s rate, then the supplier will have the option of:
         (a)   Reduction. Reducing the agreement fixed price to a rate at least
equal to the price to compare;
         (b)   Transfer to Ameren. Transferring Program accounts to default
tariff service at the discretion of the village; or
         (c)   Transfer to another supplier. Transferring Program accounts to
another ARES at the discretion of the village.
   (E)   Supply options.
      (1)   Pricing options for at least the following supply options will be
sought through the solicitation.
         (a)   Lowest community price mix. Electricity supply that includes the
minimum level of renewable energy resources for the entire aggregation
portfolio as required by the state’s Renewable Portfolio Standard.
         (b)   Enhanced community renewable energy mix. Electricity supply that
includes volumes of renewable energy credits (RECs) in excess of the minimum
level of renewable energy resources required by the State of Illinois Renewable
Portfolio Standard for the entire aggregation portfolio. The excess REC volumes
are to be sourced from biomass, hydro, wind, solar photovoltaic, or captured
methane-landfill gas, and certified by a reliable and existing authority. Costs
associated with supplying the elevated number of REC wilt be submitted as
pricing options during the solicitation process.
         (c)   Enhanced individual renewable energy mix. Electricity supply
that includes volumes of renewable energy credits (RECs) in excess of the
minimum level of renewable energy resources mandated by the state’s renewable
portfolio standard as requested by individual aggregation members. The excess
REC volumes are to be sourced from biomass, hydro, wind, solar photovoltaic, or
captured methane-landfill gas and certified by a reliable and existing
authority. Costs associated with supplying the elevated number of REC will be
submitted as pricing options during the solicitation process.
      (2)   The village will determine whether any option beyond the lowest
price mix will be accepted.
   (F)   Qualification of bidders. Bidders must demonstrate that they satisfy
each of the following requirements.
      (1)   State and utility certifications and licenses.
         (a)   A certificate of serviced authority from the State of Illinois
as a certified retail electric supplier and any and all other licenses or
certifications required by the ICC;
         (b)   Current registration as a retail electric supplier with Ameren;
         (c)   Proof of the company’s bond posting with the ICC; and
         (d)   Commitment to comply with all applicable laws and regulations of
the state.
      (2)   Transmission agreements. A service agreement for network
integration transmission service under open access transmission tariff.
      (3)   Data systems.
         (a)   Electronic data interchange computer network that is fully
functional at all times and includes back-up file saving systems, and is
capable of handling the Ameren residential and small commercial retail electric
customers in the village.
         (b)   A secure database of customer account information that will
include the Ameren account number, and supplier account number of each active
member, and other pertinent information such as rate code, rider code (if
applicable), and usage and demand history. The database will be updated on an
ongoing basis. The data contained in the database will be held strictly
confidential. Customer account information for a minimum of two years following
the termination of the agreement.
      (4)   Corporate capacity. The internal resources to meet the needs of the
Aggregation Program.
         (a)   Maintain the necessary corporate structure to sell energy power
supplies to the Ameren residential and small commercial retail customers in
village.
         (b)   Proof of company’s (or parent company affiliate’s) credit rating
as reported in the most recent company annual or quarterly reports.
      (5)   Customer service.
         (a)   The ability to reach all Ameren residential and small commercial
retail customers in village to educate them on the terms of the Aggregation
Program and the Act, ensuring that marketing materials take into account
multiple modes of communication, including, but not limited to, regular mail
using the village’s envelopes, email distribution lists, web sites, social
media, and phone contact.
         (b)   A local or toll-free telephone access line which will be
available to aggregation members 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Trained
company representatives will be available to respond to customer telephone
inquiries during normal business hours. After normal business hours, the access
line may be answered by a service or an automated response system, including an
answering machine. Inquiries received after normal business hours must be
responded to by a trained company representative on the next business day.
Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer times by a customer
representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when the
connection is made, if the call needs to be transferred, transfer time shall
not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of the
time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis;
         (c)   The capacity to deliver customer service for members requiring
non-English verbal and written assistance;
         (d)   The capacity to deliver customer service for hearing impaired
members;
         (e)   Accommodate member inquiries and complaints about energy supply
and services; and
         (f)   Answer questions regarding the Program in general.
   (G)   Evaluation of qualifications. The village and consultant will evaluate
and assign scores to each bidder based on the following criteria in order to
establish a qualified bidder pool:
      (1)   Financial strength of the bidder;
      (2)   Quality of the response to the Aggregation Plan;
      (3)   Quality of the Opt-Out Plan and account enrollment time line;
      (4)   Experience as a supplier in the local market; and
      (5)   Any other factors deemed to be in the village’s best interest.
   (H)   Award. The village will select the bidder which the village determines
to be in the best interests of the village. The village will not be required to
award any agreement that is not deemed by the village to be in the best
interests of the village.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-6 AGGREGATION PROGRAM AGREEMENT.
   The village will enter into an agreement with a selected ARES which contains
the following minimum terms and conditions.
   (A)   Compliance with requirement of the bid and plan. The agreement shall
require the supplier to maintain all required qualifications, and to provide
all services specified in the RFP and this Plan.
   (B)   Term. The village’s first agreement shall be for period of not less
than a one-year period. Following the expiration of the term, the supplier will
continue to provide electric service on a month to month basis at its then best
rate until provided with 30-day written notice to discontinue providing
service. If the agreement is extended or renewed. Members will be notified by
the village as required by law and the rules of the ICC and IPA as to any
change in rates or service conditions. The village will have the discretion to
set the length of any subsequent contract term.
   (C)   Pricing. The agreement shall specify the rates quoted in the proposal
as well as any other fee arrangements. Members who move from one location to
another within the corporate limits of village shall retain their participant
status and Program pricing.
   (D)   Billing. Collection and credit procedures remain the responsibility of
the Utility and the individual aggregation member. Members are required to
remit and comply with the payment terms of Ameren. The village will not be
responsible for late payment or non-payment of any member accounts. Neither the
village nor the supplier shall have separate credit or deposit policies for
members.
   (E)   Supply mix. The agreement shall specify the supply mix as quoted in
the proposal.
   (F)   Charges and fees. Neither the village nor the supplier will impose any
terms, conditions, fees, or charges on any member served by the Aggregation
Program other than the rate quoted in the fixed price component of the RFP and
a reasonable administrative fee to the village for expenses incurred to
establish and administrate the aggregation.
      (1)   Opt-out fees. No exit fees will be applied to aggregation members
who seek to opt-out of the aggregation after the initial opt-out process has
concluded.
      (2)   Opt-in fees. No entrance fees will be applied to accounts who seek
to join the aggregation after the commencement of the aggregation supply
contract.
      (3)   Account transfer fees. No fees will be applied to aggregation
members who relocate within the village and new customers who establish new
electric service.
   (G)   Billing. Ameren will continue to provide a single bill to aggregation
members for all electrical charges.
   (H)   Confidentiality of customer database. The agreement shall require the
supplier to preserve the confidentiality of all aggregation members’ account
information and shall agree to adopt and follow protocols to preserve that
confidentiality. The supplier, as a material condition of any contract, shall
not disclose, use, sell, or provide customer account information to any person,
firm, or entity for any purpose outside the operation of this Municipal
Aggregation Program. This provision will survive the termination of the
agreement. The village, upon receiving customer information from Ameren, shall
be subject to the limitations on the disclosure of that information described
in § 2HH of the Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Practices Act, 815 ILCS 505/2HH.
   (I)   Non-competition. The supplier must agree not to solicit or contract
directly with Aggregation Program customers for service or rates outside the
Aggregation Program, and agrees not to use the customer information for any
other marketing purposes.
   (J)   Hold harmless. The supplier must agree to hold village financially
harmless from any and all financial obligations arising out of its role as
facilitator of the municipal aggregation.
   (K)   Reporting. The agreement will provide that the supplier will provide
the village with such reports and information as required in this Plan.
   (L)   Costs. All costs of the Aggregation Program development and
administration will be paid by the supplier.
   (M)   Subcontractors. Subcontractors will be held to the same strict
confidentiality standards applicable to the supplier and will be required to
otherwise comply with the requirements of the agreement. The use of
subcontractors whether approved or unapproved will not relieve the supplier
from the duties, terms, and conditions in the agreement. The supplier shall be
authorized resellers of electricity; as such their relationships with MISO or
energy producers shall not be considered subcontracts for purposes of this
document.
   (N)   Additional services. The agreement may provide that the supplier will
assist the village in developing a Member Education Plan. The agreement may
provide that the supplier will assist the village in developing an Energy
Efficiency and/or a Demand Response Program. The agreement will not preclude
the village from developing its own Member Education, Energy Efficiency, and
Demand Response Programs.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-7 IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initial enrollment process. After selecting a supplier, the village
and the consultant, under confidential agreement with the supplier, will work
with the supplier to notify eligible retail customers of the Program. The
village’s aggregation is an Opt-Out Program pursuant to 20 ILCS 3855/1-92. Any
eligible electric account that opts-out of the Program pursuant to the
procedures stated below will automatically be placed on the Ameren default
tariff service unless and until the account chooses another supplier.
      (1)   Eligible retail customer list. After selecting a supplier, the
village and the consultant, under confidential agreement with the supplier,
will work with the supplier to remove any customers determined to be ineligible
due to one or more of the following:
         (a)   The customer is not located within the village;
         (b)   The customer has a pre-existing agreement with another supplier;
         (c)   The customer has free Ameren service;
         (d)   The customer has hourly rate Ameren customer (real time
pricing); and/or
         (e)   The customer is on an Ameren bundled hold.
      (2)   Initial opt-out process. After the eligible retail customer list is
reviewed, the supplier will mail the opt-out notices described below to all
eligible account holders within the boundaries of village.
         (a)   Manner of providing notices and information. The supplier will
be required to pay for printing and mailing of all aggregation and opt-out
notices on the village envelope and letterhead. The supplier will mail
aggregation and opt-out notices to the eligible account holders within the
boundaries of village at the address provided with the retail customer
identification information provided by Ameren.
         (b)   Content of notice. The village and the supplier will agree to
the format and contents of the aggregation and opt-out notice prior to
distribution or mailing. The notice will inform the electric account owner of
the existence of the Aggregation Program, the identity of the supplier, the
rates to be charged. The notice will also inform PIPP customers of the
consequences of participating in the aggregation.
         (c)   Opt-out methods. The notice will provide a method for customers
to opt-out of the Aggregation Program. The notice shall indicate that it is
from the village and include the village name and logo on the envelope. The
notice shall be signed by the Village President or his or her designee.
         (d)   Time to respond. Aggregation members shall have 14 calendar days
from the postmark date on the notice to mail the opt-out card back to the
supplier stating their intention to opt-out of the Village Aggregation Program.
The time to respond shall be calculated based on the post mark date of the
notice to the customer and the post mark date of the customer’s response. The
supplier may offer additional means of opting out, such as a toll-free number,
website, smart device quick response code, email address, or fax number, each
of which must be received within 14 days from the post mark date on the opt-out
notice. Upon receipt of the opt-out reply, the supplier will remove the account
from the Aggregation Program.
         (e)   Final list. After the expiration of the 14-day opt-out period,
the customer list shall become final. All customers who have not opted out will
be automatically enrolled in the Program. Customers will not need to take any
affirmative steps in order to be included in the program.
         (f)   Missed accounts. In the event that an eligible aggregation
member is inadvertently not sent an opt-out notice, or is inadvertently omitted
from the Program, the supplier will work with the village and the member to
ensure that the member’s decision to remain in, or opt-out, of the Program is
properly recorded and implemented by the supplier.
         (g)   Notification to Ameren. After the opt-out response period has
expired, the supplier shall submit the account numbers of participating
aggregation members to Ameren and the rate to be charged to those customers
pursuant to the service agreement and the customer’s election. The supplier
will provide that information to Ameren in the format Ameren requires.
         (h)   Notification by Ameren. Ameren will then notify customers that
they have been switched to the supplier and provide the customer with the name
and contact information of the supplier. Customers will have the option to
rescind their participation in the program according to time frames and
procedures established by Ameren.
         (i)   Activation of service. Upon notification to Ameren, the supplier
will begin to provide electric power supply to the members of the Aggregation
Program without consumer action. The service will begin on the customer’s
normal meter read date within a month when power deliveries begin under the
Aggregation Program.
   (B)   Development of customer database. The supplier will maintain a secure
database of customer account information. The database will include the Ameren
account number, and supplier account number of each active member, and other
pertinent information such as rate code, rider code (if applicable), and usage
and demand history. The database will be updated on an ongoing basis.
   (C)   Subsequent opt-out process.
      (1)   Account enrollment. After the initial opt-out enrollment process is
completed, the village and supplier will establish procedures and protocols to
work with Ameren on an ongoing basis to add, delete, or change any customer
participation or rate information.
      (2)   Off-cycle account additions.
         (a)   New accounts. The village will request from Ameren on a
quarterly basis a listing of all active accounts located within the village
boundaries. The village and the consultant will identify the accounts on that
list that have been added since the initial opt-out notifications were issued.
The process described in § VIII A of this Plan will be followed to facilitate
enrollment or exclusion from the Program.
         (b)   Opt-in accounts. Customers may join the Program after initially
opting-out by contacting the village or the supplier.
      (3)   Off-cycle supply pricing. The agreement will require that the
supplier use all commercially reasonable efforts to provide accounts seeking
entry to the aggregation after the initial opt-out period with the same energy
supply pricing as that provided the entire aggregation, accounts enrolled after
the initial opt-out period will be included in any general pricing offers
presented to the aggregation after the account is initially enrolled.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-8 ADDITIONAL SERVICE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Member education. At the discretion of the village, the supplier will
assist village in developing and implementing a program to educate residential
and small commercial retail aggregation members on the Aggregation Program, as
well as energy efficiency and conservation tools. The supplier will also
provide the aggregation members with updates and disclosures mandated by ICC
and IPA rules.
   (B)   Universal access. The supplier will implement a process to provide
universal access including member education for multi-lingual members and
members with disabilities.
   (C)   Reporting. The supplier will provide to the consultant the following
reports.
      (1)   REC Reporting. The supplier will deliver reports that provide
competent and reliable evidence to support the fact that it purchased properly
certified RECs in a sufficient quantity to offset the non-renewable energy
provided in the mix.
      (2)   Aggregation reports. The supplier will provide the village with
quarterly reports showing the number of members participating in the
Aggregation Program and the total cost for energy provided to the aggregation
as compared to the Ameren’s default tariff service rates. In addition, the
supplier will report its efforts at member education.
   (D)   Termination of agreement.
      (1)   End of term. The village’s service agreement with the supplier will
terminate upon its expiration, provided that the supplier will continue to
provide service at their best rate on a month to month basis after the
expiration of the contract term until the village provides it with 30-day
written notice to discontinue providing service.
      (2)   Early termination. The village will have the right to terminate the
agreement prior to the expiration of the term in the event the supplier commits
any act of default. Acts of default include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Breach of confidentiality regarding customer information;
         (b)   The supplier becoming disqualified to perform the services by
virtue of the lapse or revocation of any required license or certification
listed as a qualification in the RFP;
         (c)   Ameren’s termination of its relationship with the supplier;
         (d)   Any act or omission which constitutes deception by affirmative
statement or practice, or by omission, fraud, misrepresentation, or a bad faith
practice;
         (e)   Billing in excess of the approved kWh rates an stated charges;
         (f)   Billing or attempting to collect any charge other than the
approved kWh rates and contractually approved charges;
         (g)   Failure to perform at a minimum level of customer service
required by the village;
         (h)   The village will provide the supplier with written notice of
immediate termination in the event that any of the defaults listed above under
divisions (D)(2)(a) through (D)(2)(d) above exist;
         (i)   The village will provide the supplier with written notice of
default in the event of any default listed under divisions (D)(2)(e) through
(D)(2)(g) above, or any other event of default not listed above. The supplier
and the village will attempt to resolve any issues cooperatively within seven
business days. If the issue is not resolved, the village will again notify the
supplier in writing of its intention to terminate the agreement within 30 days
if the issue is not resolved to the village’s satisfaction;
         (j)   Upon termination for any reason, the village will notify Ameren
to return the aggregation members to the default tariff electric service
through a public notice; and
         (k)   Upon termination, each individual member will receive written
notification from the village of the termination of the Program. Such notice
will also inform members of their electric supply options.
   (E)   Jurisdiction. Any disputes between the supplier and the village will
be resolved in the courts or before state agencies in the State of Illinois
regardless of any conflicts laws to the contrary.
   (F)   Limitation of liability.
      (1)   The village shall not be liable to aggregation members for any
claims, however styled, arising out of the aggregation program or out of any
village act or omission in facilitating the Municipal Aggregation Program.
      (2)   In addition, the supplier agrees to hold the village harmless from
any claim, cause of action, or proceeding of any kind which may be filed
against the village arising out of the services provided by the supplier or any
act or omission of the village in obtaining the services of the supplier.
Participants in the aggregation program shall assert any such claims solely
against the supplier pursuant to the agreement, under which such participants
are express third-party beneficiaries.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 1-14-9 INFORMATION AND COMPLAINT NUMBERS.
   Copies of this Plan will be available from the village free of charge. Call
217-528-7624 for a copy or for more information. Any electric customer,
including any participant in the village’s aggregation program, may contact the
state’s Commerce Commission for information, or to make a complaint against the
Program, the supplier, or Ameren. The ICC may be reached at 217-782-5793.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   ZONING COMMISSION
CHAPTER 1: ZONING COMMISSION
Section
   
2-1-1   Commission established
   
2-1-2   Purpose of Commission
   
2-1-3   Meetings
   
2-1-4   Public hearings
   
2-1-5   Compensation
§ 2-1-1 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be and is hereby created a Zoning Commission for the village
which shall consist of seven members, including a Chairperson, to be appointed
by the President with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 109, passed 12-1-1964)
§ 2-1-2 PURPOSE OF COMMISSION.
   The Zoning Commission shall study the zoning questions in the village; shall
prepare a report and suggested ordinance for the regulation of the height of
buildings and structures, setback lines, or building lines; the intensity of
the use of lot areas; the location of trades and industries and buildings
designated for industrial businesses, residential, or other uses; and dividing
the village into various use, height, and other districts for the purposes of
establishing and enforcing adequate and proper zoning regulations.
(Ord. 109, passed 12-1-1964)
§ 2-1-3 MEETINGS.
   The Zoning Commission shall meet at such times as may be determined by it,
and special meetings of the Commission may be held upon call by the Chairperson
or any three members thereof. The Village Clerk shall act as Secretary of the
Zoning Commission, unless provision to the contrary shall be made by the Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 109, passed 12-1-1964)
§ 2-1-4 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   After the preparation of a tentative report and ordinance, the Zoning
Commission shall hold a public hearing thereon, public notice of which hearing
shall be published in a newspaper not more than 30 nor fewer than 15 days prior
thereto, and such notice shall state the place where copies of the tentative
ordinance are available for examination.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the final adjournment of its hearings, the Zoning
Commission shall make a report and submit a proposed ordinance to the Board of
Trustees, which thereupon may enact such proposed ordinance with or without
change, or may refer it back to the Zoning Commission for further study.
(Ord. 109, passed 12-1-1964)
§ 2-1-5 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Zoning Commission shall not receive compensation for their
services.
(Ord. 109, passed 12-1-1964)
TITLE 3: FINANCES AND TAXATION
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
      
2.   TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
      
3.   VILLAGE TAXES
      
4.   MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
      
5.   SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
3-1-1   Village depository
   
3-1-2   Insufficient funds fee
   
3-1-3   Responsible bidder policy
   
3-1-4   Business service fees and petty cash fund policy
Investment Policy
   
3-1-15   Policy
   
3-1-16   Scope
   
3-1-17   Prudence
   
3-1-18   Objective
   
3-1-19   Delegation of authority
   
3-1-20   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
3-1-21   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
3-1-22   Authorized and suitable investments
   
3-1-23   Collateralization
   
3-1-24   Safekeeping and custody
   
3-1-25   Diversification
   
3-1-26   Maximum maturities
   
3-1-27   Internal control
   
3-1-28   Performance standards
   
3-1-29   Reporting
   
3-1-30   Investment policy adoption and modification
Capitalization Policy
   
3-1-45   Policy
   
3-1-46   Definitions
   
3-1-47   Purpose
   
3-1-48   Asset classification
   
3-1-49   General administration
   
3-1-50   Infrastructure
   
3-1-51   Determination of cost
   
3-1-52   Estimated useful life
   
3-1-53   Depreciation method
   
3-1-54   Summary
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-1-1 VILLAGE DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   Bank of Springfield is hereby designated as a depository of village
funds.
   (B)   The Village President and Treasurer are hereby authorized and directed
to move all village funds, currently held at Marine Bank Springfield, to Bank
of Springfield within 30 days of the date of the ordinance codified herein, or,
in the case of funds held in/a certificate of deposit, within 15 days after the
certificate of deposit matures, whichever is later.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 3-4-2010)
§ 3-1-2 INSUFFICIENT FUNDS FEE.
   On each occasion where a check, issued or delivered to the village in
payment of water charges or other village charges or fees is dishonored or not
paid by the bank upon which it is drawn, a collection fee of $25 shall be
assessed or added to the account of the person, partnership, corporation, or
other entity which issued or delivered the dishonored or unpaid check, or on
whose behalf the dishonored or unpaid check was issued or delivered.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 3-3-1998)
§ 3-1-3 RESPONSIBLE BIDDER POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   All specifications for the construction or substantial
renovation of any building, roadway, bridge, shelter, parking lot, or other
capital project, or for the provision of services for the village, shall
include a requirement that any person, firm, corporation, or other entity
submitting a bid shall include a complete, accurate, and truthful listing and
description of all citations, complaints, summons, decisions, determinations,
judgments, or other allegations or findings of any violation of state or
federal laws which protect the health, safety, or welfare of workers,
including, but not limited to, OSHA, FMLA, FLSA, ADA, ADEA, NLRA, the Federal
Civil Rights Act, the state’s Human Rights Act, the state’s Wage and Hour Law,
and the Prevailing Wage Act, filed against it or any entity with whom it is
submitting the bid, including joint venturers and partners, and also including
parent and subsidiary corporations or entities, and shall further include a
true statement regarding any and all apprenticeship and training programs,
approved by and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau
of Apprenticeship and Training, that such bidder is a participant in and that
the corresponding trade or craft will be utilized on the project being bid;
provided, however, that the village may waive any apprenticeship and training
program requirement herein.
      (2)   If the bidder has not been the recipient of any citations,
complaints, summons, decisions, determinations, judgments, or other allegations
or findings as aforesaid, it shall include a statement to that effect with its
bid.
   (B)   Any bidder who willfully fails or refuses to include the information
required in division (A) above, or whose report is substantially incomplete,
inaccurate, or untruthful, shall be disqualified and its bid rejected.
   (C)   The village may reject any bid and disqualify any bidder whose report,
or subsequent inquiry into the matters contained in such report, reveals that
there has been a finding, determination, or judgment by an agency of the state
or federal government charged with the responsibility of enforcing laws and
regulations which protect the health, safety, or welfare of workers, as
enumerated above, or otherwise, that the bidder has violated such a statute or
regulations, and that such violation was:
      (1)   Found to have been part of a pattern of similar violations, or one
of three or more similar violations committed within the three years
immediately preceding the submission of the bid;
      (2)   Classified by an agency of the state or federal government as
serious;
      (3)   One which threatened the health or safety of the workers employed
by the bidder;
      (4)   One resulting in the payment of back wages and benefits of $3,000
or more;
      (5)   One that resulted or could have resulted in the debarment of the
bidder from contracting with the state or federal government, or any agency
thereof; and/or
      (6)   That the bidder and its employees do not actively participate in
applicable apprenticeship and training programs as aforesaid.
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity seeking to submit bids
for any project of, or for the provision of services for the village, which has
been disqualified or had its bids rejected by the village on three or more
occasions within the three years immediately preceding the submission of the
bid which is then currently before the village for consideration, shall be
debarred from submitting further bids for the village’s projects for a period
of two years following the rejection of the bid then currently being considered
by the village.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 1-29-2010)
§ 3-1-4 BUSINESS SERVICE FEES AND PETTY CASH FUND POLICY.
   (A)   The village recognizes the importance of providing essential business
office services to the citizens of the village, as well as others. In
furtherance of those services, the village also recognizes the importance of
maintaining a petty cash fund which will not exceed an at-hand balance in
excess of $500. Such petty cash funds will be maintained by the Village Clerk,
which shall be kept under lock and key, and accounted for through the keeping
of a written or electronic ledger and the maintenance of other records and
receipts. Such records will be open for inspection upon request by a Village
President, Village Trustee, or the Chief of Police. When the balance contained
in the petty cash fund exceeds $500, the Clerk will notify the Village
Treasurer and the Village President, who will instruct that such excess balance
be deposited within the village’s General Revenue Fund within three business
days after receiving such notice. The Village Treasurer and the Village Clerk
shall jointly audit the petty cash fund at least once a calendar year and
report their findings in writing to the Village Board as directed.
   (B)   (1)   The fee structure for essential business office services offered
are as follows:
         (a)   Faxes, copies, and scans: $0.25 per page for each page printed
or sent electronically;
         (b)   Notary services for non-village residents: $5; and
         (c)   Fees can be waived on an individual case basis by the Village
President, a Trustee, or the Chief of Police. Upon a waiver, written records
shall be kept documenting the instance for which fees were waived.
      (2)   Note: the prices included in the above fee structure shall only
apply to those documents or items brought in by private citizens who request
assistance from the village. The village shall make any and all public records
available pursuant to the express terms of the state’s Freedom of Information
Act, subject to the statutory exemptions provided, and shall comply with the
pricing requirements set forth therein.
(Res. 22-05, passed 8-2-2022)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 3-1-15 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-16 SCOPE.
   This policy includes all public funds of the village.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-17 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-18 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state, and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield. Attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the village’s need for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification, and its general performance.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-19 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who shall establish procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-20 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-21 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of
approved security brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-22 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds. Investments shall be made
that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund type being invested.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-23 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit, and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral, witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent third-party institution in
the name of the village.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-24 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third-party custodian
designated by the Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written
custodial agreement.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-25 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The entity shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in, and length of maturity.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-26 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than years from the date of purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding years if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-27 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to insure that the assets of the village
are protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-28 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity,
and credit quality as the portfolio maintained by the Illinois Public
Treasurers Investment Pool (IPTIP).
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-29 REPORTING.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly. The
report should be provided to the Village Board and available on request. The
report should be in a format suitable for review by the general public.
   (B)   An annual report should also be provided to the Village Board. A
statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the Village
Board quarterly.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 3-1-30 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION AND MODIFICATION.
   The investment policy has been be adopted by ordinance. The policy shall be
reviewed on an annual basis by the Treasurer, and any modifications made
thereto shall be made by ordinance.
(Ord. 99-30, passed 4-20-1999)
CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 3-1-45 POLICY.
   (A)   The village has received a recommendation that it adopt a
capitalization policy in order to be in compliance with applicable accounting
standards. The Board has reviewed the following capitalization policy, and
approves the adoption of that policy.
   (B)   The President is authorized and directed to execute said policy, and
the proper officers of the village are directed to carry out and apply the
terms of that policy to all future audits.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL ASSETS. Acquired for use in operations and not for resale. They are
long-term in nature and subject to depreciation. They possess physical
substance.
   COMPONENT UNIT. Individual identifiable pieces of a capital asset or a group
of capital assets.
   DEPRECIATION. The systematic and rational allocation of the estimated
historical cost of a capital asset (or if donated, the fair value of the
capital asset at the time of donation) over its estimated useful service life.
   ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE. The period of time over which an asset’s cost will be
depreciated.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. An estimate of what a willing buyer would pay to a
willing seller, both in a free market, for an asset or any piece of property.
   GASB 34. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board’s (GASB) Statement No.
34, Basic Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis,
require state and local governments depreciate their exhaustible capital asset,
including infrastructure.
   HISTORICAL COST. The actual exchange value in dollars at the time the asset
was acquired. It is measured by cash or cash equivalent price of obtaining the
asset and charges necessary to bring it to its intended location and to place
the asset in its intended condition for use.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The structures that support a society, such as roads, flood
management systems, telecommunications, drainage, and so forth.
   REPLACEMENT. The substitution of a new facility or component of an existing
facility.
   SALVAGE VALUE. An estimate of the amount that will be realized at the end of
the useful life of a depreciable asset.
   STRAIGHT-LINE DEPRECIATION METHOD. Is determined by the formula: (cost-
salvage value)/estimated useful life=depreciation per period.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-47 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This capitalization policy is intended to provide guidance for the
capitalization and depreciation of capital assets to comply with the
requirements of Governmental Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 34, Basic
Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis for state and
local governments. This statement requires the reporting of the village capital
assets and depreciation in their annual audited financial statement.
   (B)   This policy includes capital asset classes, descriptions,
capitalization threshold levels, estimated useful lives, methods of
depreciation, and the procedures to be used in effectively identifying,
recording, and reporting the village’s capital assets.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-48 ASSET CLASSIFICATION.
   Village capital assets are used to support two major criteria of the
business:
   (A)   General administration; and
   (B)   Infrastructure.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-49 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   General administration is the activity that the village employees conduct to
run the day-to-day operations. Capital assets that support these activities can
include, but are not limited to, office furniture, fixtures, equipment,
information, and computer systems and the like where the following two
conditions are met:
   (A)   Each individual item has a cost of $5,000 or more; and
   (B)   Useful life of at least three years.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-50 INFRASTRUCTURE.
   Activities related to infrastructure include new construction; replacement
due to expansion or new technology; replacement due to the end of normal life
cycle, major repairs, or refurbishment; and acceptance of assets through the
contribution by other agencies. Capital assets that are in this group can
include, but are not limited to, land, land improvement, buildings, building
improvements, facilities, facility improvements, and renovations.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-51 DETERMINATION OF COST.
   GASB Statement No. 34 states that purchased or village constructed capital
assets should be reported at historical cost. The total cost of the capital
asset is the cash outlay or its equivalent that is necessary to acquire the
asset and put it in operating condition. These costs include contract price,
freight, licensing fees, handling and assembling, installation and testing,
direct labor and material, indirect labor and materials, benefit, and overhead
allocations as well as any construction period interest cost as required by
GASB Statement No. 34. In addition, it is the village’s policy to capitalize
any cost that is specifically identifiable with a planned capital project (or
asset acquisition), including public information costs and costs incurred to
obtain financing for the project. Contributed capital assets will be recorded
at their estimated fair market value at the date of the asset was contribution
to the village.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-52 ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE.
   The village uses Internal Revenue Tax Law requirements, general guidelines
obtained from professional or industry organizations, and information for
comparable assets of other governments as the guidelines when estimating the
useful lives of the capital assets.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-53 DEPRECIATION METHOD.
   The village uses straight-line method with no salvage value for all
depreciable capital assets.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 3-1-54 SUMMARY.
   The following table summarizes the depreciation schedule.
Asset Class Description Threshold Useful Life (years)
Asset Class       Description          Threshold          Useful Life (years)
Building          Buildings            $25,000            40
improvement
Infrastructure    Roads, drainage,     $50,000            3—40
                  resurfacing
Land              Land                 N/A capitalize all N/A
Land improvement  Sidewalks, fences,   $25,000            20
                  landscape shrubbery
Office furniture, Desk, chair, file
equipment         cabinets, telephone  $5,000             3—10
                  printers
Police equipment  Radars, lidars,      $5,000             3—10
                  mobile equipment
Vehicles          Car, truck, tractor, $15,000            5
                  trailer, lawn mowers
 
(Ord. 21-02, passed 1-5-2021)
CHAPTER 2: TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Section
   
3-2-1   Application
   
3-2-2   Definitions
   
3-2-3   Notices
   
3-2-4   Late payment
   
3-2-5   Payment
   
3-2-6   Certain credits and refunds
   
3-2-7   Audit procedure
   
3-2-8   Appeal
   
3-2-9   Hearing
   
3-2-10   Interest and penalties
   
3-2-11   Abatement
   
3-2-12   Installment contracts
   
3-2-13   Statute of limitations
   
3-2-14   Voluntary disclosure
   
3-2-15   Publication of tax ordinances
   
3-2-16   Internal revenue procedure
§ 3-2-1 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Treasurer, or other officer or employee
designated from time to time by the Corporate Authorities, who is charged with
the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead.
The LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview, Illinois.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-3 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-4 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-5 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to any interest due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the tax due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-6 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction; however, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-7 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The tune period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not more than 30 days from the date the
notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to
some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the
audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within the
30 days, approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-8 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled within 14 days
of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer
requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-9 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
3-2-8, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination,
audit, or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-10 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 9.0%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-11 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-12 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer
for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing.
   (B)   Upon written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is
30 days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any
delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day
period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment
contract with the local administrator, the installment contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-13 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-14 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has
not received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from
the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with
the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due.
   (B)   A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay
the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application.
   (C)   A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not be
liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed; however, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void.
   (D)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator; however, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within 90 days after a final determination and the
exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-15 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
§ 3-2-16 INTERNAL REVENUE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-21-2001)
CHAPTER 3: VILLAGE TAXES
Section
Utility Taxes
   
3-3-1   Electricity tax
   
3-3-2   Gas tax
   
3-3-3   Utility Tax Fund
Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
3-3-15   Tax imposed; rates
   
3-3-16   Collection of tax by retailers
   
3-3-17   Dedication of funds
Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax and
Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
   
3-3-25   Municipal grocery retailers' occupation tax imposed
   
3-3-26   Municipal grocery service occupation tax
   
3-3-27   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes
 
   
3-3-99   Penalty
UTILITY TAXES
§ 3-3-1 ELECTRICITY TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(3) and any and all other applicable
authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
      (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.61 per kilowatt-hour;
      (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.40 per kilowatt-hour;
      (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.36 per kilowatt-hour;
      (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.35 per kilowatt-hour;
      (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.34 per kilowatt-hour;
      (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.32 per kilowatt- hour;
      (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.315 per kilowatt- hour;
      (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.31 per kilowatt- hour;
      (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.305 per kilowatt- hour; and
      (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: $0.30 per kilowatt-hour.
   (B)   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state of any political subdivision thereof.
   (C)   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
   (D)   All terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as those
terms have in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, as existing on the effective date of this
section or as thereafter amended by the General Assembly. In the event of a
conflict between this section and 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the provisions of the
Municipal Code shall prevail.
   (E)   This section shall take effect on July 1, 2010. The tax provided for
herein shall be based shall be based on the electricity consumed, and billed by
and paid to the taxpayer for services on or after on or after July 1, 2010.
   (F)   (1)   On or before the last day of October, 2010, each taxpayer shall
make a return to the Village Treasurer for the three months of July, August,
and September, 2010, stating:
         (a)   Its name;
         (b)   Its principal place of business;
         (c)   The amount of electricity consumed in each tax rate category set
forth in division (A) above;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for a corresponding
three-month period.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may,
if it so elects, report and pay an amount based upon its total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   (G)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (H)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Ord. 10-06, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see §
3-3-99
§ 3-3-2 GAS TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(2), a tax is imposed on all persons
engaged in the privilege, occupation, or business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the village and not for resale, at a rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
   (B)   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state of any political subdivision thereof.
   (C)   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
   (D)   All terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as those
terms have in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, as existing on the effective date of this
section or as thereafter amended by the General Assembly. In the event of a
conflict between this section and 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the provisions of the
Municipal Code shall prevail.
   (E)   This section shall take effect on July 1, 2010. The tax provided for
herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed on or after July 1, 2010.
   (F)   (1)   On or before the last day of October, 2010, each taxpayer shall
make a return to the Village Treasurer for the three months of July, August,
and September, 2010, stating:
         (a)   Its name;
         (b)   Its principal place of business;
         (c)   Its gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for a corresponding
three-month period.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may,
if it so elects, report and pay an amount based upon its total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   (G)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (H)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see §
3-3-99
§ 3-3-3 UTILITY TAX FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the Village Treasury a special fund to
be known as the Utility Tax Fund. All taxes imposed by the village pursuant to
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, and thereafter received by the village, shall be placed by
the Village Treasurer in the Utility Tax Fund, which shall be segregated from
all other funds of the village.
   (B)   Annually, as part of the village appropriation ordinance, the funds in
the Utility Tax Fund shall be appropriated for the following purposes, and may
thereafter be expended for the following purposes, and no other purposes,
except as set forth in division (C) below:
      (1)   Funding of retirement benefits for full-time village employees;
      (2)   The purchase of village equipment;
      (3)   Salary adjustments for village employees; and
      (4)   Capital improvements.
   (C)   The funds in Utility Tax Fund may be appropriated and expended for
purposes other than those set forth in division (B) above only with a two-
thirds vote of the corporate authorities of the village then in office.
(Ord. 2000-50, passed 11-21-2000)
CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 3-3-15 TAX IMPOSED; RATES.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the village at the rate of 3%
of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/8-11-22.
(Ord. 19-10, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 3-3-16 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the State Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-10, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 3-3-17 DEDICATION OF FUNDS.
   Beginning with sales tax receipts transferred to the village on or after
November 1, 2019, the Village Treasurer shall transfer those receipts into a
line item in the corporate budget dedicated to infrastructure improvements as
directed by the Village Board.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 11-19-2019)
MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 3-3-25 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subchapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 24-18, passed 12-3-2024, eff. 1-1-2026)
§ 3-3-26 MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section
3-3-25, above. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-24).
(Ord. 24-18, passed 12-3-2024, eff. 1-1-2026)
§ 3-3-27 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES.
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 24-18, passed 12-3-2024, eff. 1-1-2026)
§ 3-3-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
3-3-1 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $250 nor more than $500 and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
   (C)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
3-3-3 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $250 nor more than $500 and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 2000-50, passed 11-21-2000)
CHAPTER 4: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
Section
   
3-4-1   Recitals
   
3-4-2   Definitions
   
3-4-3   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
3-4-4   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
   
3-4-5   Collection and enforcement
   
3-4-6   Compliance with other laws
   
3-4-7   Existing franchises and licenses
   
3-4-8   Waiver and fee implementation
   
3-4-9   Notice to telecommunication providers which do not have franchise
agreements
   
3-4-99   Penalty
§ 3-4-1 RECITALS.
   The facts and statements contained in the preamble to the ordinance codified
herein are found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES. The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act
or privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money, whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office
channel provided within the village. However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
         (a)   The fee imposed by this section;
         (b)   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221 or
9-222 of the Public Utilities Act;
         (c)   Amounts collected under 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17;
         (d)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (e)   911 surcharges; or
         (f)   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time- sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the village;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
      (7)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunications
devices; or
      (9)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water, electric, or public
right-of-way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings, towers, and other structures or improvements,
regardless of whether they are situated in the public right- of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Includes any
retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the
customer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1550 et
seq.) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Includes any telecommunications retailer and
any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs, owns,
operates, or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER, RETAILER, or CARRIER. Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any RETAILER not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (Public Law No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services, and paging services.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-3 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this chapter shall
register with the village on or before January 15, 1998 or upon becoming a
telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a form set forth in Exhibit
“A” of the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form to the village within 30 days from the date of the occurrence
of any changes in the information provided by the telecommunications provider
in the registration form.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-4 MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village on
and after February 1, 1998.
   (B)   On and after February 1, 1998, the village infrastructure maintenance
fee authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of
all public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in §
3-4-5.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-5 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Administrator, the
infrastructure maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to
the month in which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that
the telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form exemplified by Exhibit “B” of the ordinance
codified herein.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the Village Administrator may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations, and the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      (1)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      (2)   “Gross receipts” for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
      (3)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax as prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17; and
      (4)   “Gross revenue” for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in § 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of
the amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the village by
the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village plus 5% of the
total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs
incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 5%
of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said sum shall
be paid to the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice
for same.
   (H)   The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, may promulgate such
further or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement
of this chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time
to time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to this chapter of such regulations.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-6 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or
repair of the public rights-of- way, including standards relating to free
standing towers and other structures upon the public rights-of- way, as
provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over, or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-7 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
chapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges, or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-8 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   (1)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other
compensation that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the
village by a telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village
franchise, license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer
during the time the village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure
maintenance fee.
      (2)   This waiver shall only be effective during the time the
infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this chapter is subject to being
lawfully imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   (B)   On or before October 31, 1997, the Village Clerk shall send a notice
of the waiver in the form exemplified by Exhibit “C” attached to the ordinance
codified herein by certified mail/return receipt requested to each
telecommunications retailer with whom the village has a franchise.
   (C)   (1)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
chapter shall become effective and imposed on February 1, 1998, so long as the
village has, by October 31, 1997, mailed to each telecommunications retailer
with whom the village has an existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
that the village waives all compensation under such existing franchise,
license, or similar agreement during such time as the fee is subject to being
lawfully imposed and collected by the retailer and remitted to the village.
      (2)   The infrastructure maintenance fee shall apply to gross charges
billed on or after the effective date as established in the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-9 NOTICE TO TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDERS WHICH DO NOT HAVE FRANCHISE
AGREEMENTS.
   As soon as practicable, the Village Clerk shall mail to all
telecommunications providers known to be operating within the village and which
do not have franchise agreements, a notice of imposition of the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee, in substantially the form
exemplified by Exhibit “D” attached to the ordinance codified herein. Whenever
the Clerk becomes aware of an additional telecommunications provider operating
within the village, he or she shall send such a notice. Failure to send such a
notice, however, shall not effect the validity of the fee to be assessed
against the telecommunications provider.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 3-4-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to fine of $500. Each month a return is not filed shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
In addition to any penalty, the village may seek all other remedies available
at law or in equity, including collection of taxes due together with interest
at the general rate of prejudgment interest allowed by law, and injunctions to
restrain further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 10-21-1997)
CHAPTER 5: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
Section
   
3-5-1   Definitions
   
3-5-2   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
3-5-3   Collection of tax by retailers
   
3-5-4   Returns to Department
   
3-5-5   Resellers
§ 3-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The state’s Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit
is extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within this municipality and charges for the portion of the
inter-office channels provided within this municipality. Charges for that
portion of the inter-office channel connecting two or more channel termination
points, one or more of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of
this municipality, shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount
equal to the total charge for the inter-office channel by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of channel termination points that are located
within the jurisdictional boundary of the municipality, and the denominator of
which is the total number of channel termination points connected by the inter-
office channel. However, GROSS CHARGE shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
         (a)   The tax imposed by this chapter;
         (b)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (c)   The tax imposed by I.R.C. § 4251;
         (d)   911 surcharges; or
         (e)   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of
§§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar
charges added to customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate
regulation by the State Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering any
of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the
Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under § 9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the
period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices;
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act; and
      (10)   (a)   Charges for non-taxable services or telecommunications if:
            1.   Those charges are aggregated with other charges for
telecommunications that are taxable;
            2.   Those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill
or invoice; and
            3.   The retailer can reasonable identify the non-taxable charges
on the retailer’s books and records kept in the regular course of business.
         (b)   If the non-taxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the
GROSS CHARGE from the sale of both taxable and non-taxable services of
telecommunications billed on a combined basis shall be attributed to the
taxable services or telecommunications. The burden of proving non-taxable
charges shall be on the retailer of the telecommunications.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court; the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute; or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption, or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any RETAILER
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such RETAILER shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a RETAILER maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE or any like term. Any
retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of a taxpayer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in the state where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by the chapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, PRIVATE LINE means a
dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS
subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes of this section,
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in § 2-27 of
the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 3-5-2 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 3%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the
municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax;
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-state or multi-municipal taxation of the act
or privilege that is subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this
state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant
to or authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax
properly due and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in
another municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a credit
against any other state or local tax in this state; and/or
   (C)   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
of the United States and statutes, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 3-5-3 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 3-5-4 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   On or before the last day of February 2022, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the Department pursuant to the state’s Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act (35 ILCS 636/5-50) and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the Department to implement the Act.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 3-5-5 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 7-20-2021)
TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.   VIDEO GAMING
      
3.   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
4.   SOLICITORS
      
5.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
6.   SECOND-HAND STORES
      
7.   SOLID WASTE HAULERS
      
8.   BUILDING MOVERS
CHAPTER 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
4-1-1   Definitions
   
4-1-2   Liquor Commissioner
   
4-1-3   License required
   
4-1-4   Application for license
   
4-1-5   Disposition of license application
   
4-1-6   Restriction on licensees
   
4-1-7   Record of licenses
   
4-1-8   Insurance requirements
   
4-1-9   Initial license applications; fees
   
4-1-10   Classification and fees
   
4-1-11   Term of license; renewals
   
4-1-12   Transfer of license
   
4-1-13   Incomplete applications
   
4-1-14   Disposition of fees
   
4-1-15   Conditions of license
   
4-1-16   Location restrictions
   
4-1-17   Sanitary conditions
   
4-1-18   View from street
   
4-1-19   Premises restrictions
   
4-1-20   Personnel restrictions
   
4-1-21   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
4-1-22   Sales to minors, drunkards, and the like
   
4-1-23   Purchase or acceptance of gift by minors; identification cards
   
4-1-24   Violation of Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act; citizen complaints
   
4-1-25   Revocation or suspension of local license; fines; notice; hearing;
appeal
   
4-1-26   Forfeiture of fees
   
4-1-27   Use of premises after revocation
   
4-1-99   Penalty
§ 4-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. This chapter
shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by
volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the State of Illinois, not
for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than
the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring, or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing, and serving food and meals for its
members and their guests; provided that such CLUB files with the Liquor
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter
two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or her name
and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer,
agent, or employee of the CLUB is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in
the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the CLUB or the members of the CLUB or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A grocery store which also sells motor fuel.
   CORPORATION. Includes limited liability companies. Where this chapter refers
to a “shareholder” or a “stockholder” of a corporation, the term includes a
member of a limited liability company. Where this chapter refers to “officers”
and “directors” of a CORPORATION, the terms include persons holding similar
positions in limited liability companies, such as managers and managing
members.
   GROCERY STORE. A retail establishment primarily engaged in the sale of food
and household items with the sale of alcoholic liquors as incidental to its
primary business.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised,
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered to adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith, and such building or buildings, structure or
structures, being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   LIQUOR COMMISSIONER. The President of the Village of Grandview.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, 23 ILCS 5/5-1-
1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
   PACKAGE STORE. A retail establishment, the primary business of which is the
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off premises.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or any corporation or partnership or
unincorporated association.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests. A RESTAURANT holding
an R-1 or R-2 license under this chapter shall have its normal lunch or dinner
items available for sale at all times alcoholic liquors are available for sale.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious, or other nonprofit organizations.
   SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER. An educational, fraternal, civic, religious, or non-
profit organization which sells or offers for sale, beer or wine or both, only
for consumption at the location and on the dates designated by a special event
license.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   STATE COMMISSION. The Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-2 LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Administration of Liquor Control Act. The Village President is hereby
designated as the Liquor Commissioner and shall be charged with the
administration of the Liquor Control Act and of such ordinances and resolutions
relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted. The President may appoint a
person or persons to assist in the exercise of the powers and the performance
of the duties provided for in division (B) below.
   (B)   Powers, duties, and functions. The Liquor Commissioner shall have all
the powers, functions, and duties with respect to local liquor licenses granted
by the Liquor Control Act, including:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within the
village and to impose fines as set forth herein;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted by the Liquor Commissioner or by the State Commission, have
been or are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensee in connection therewith;
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen with the village that any of
the provisions of the Liquor Control Act or of this chapter have been or are
being violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner provided by the
Liquor Control Act or this chapter;
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay same to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local license or for a renewal thereof, of any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the State Commission; to examine, or
cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee
or respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for information in the
performance of the Liquor Commissioner’s duties; and for such purposes, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Liquor Commissioner
under this section, the Commissioner may authorize an agent to act on his or
her behalf;
      (6)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
the General Not for Profit Corporation Act or a foreign corporation functioning
as a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued under that Act
has violated the Liquor Control Act by selling or offering for sale at retail
alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license; and
      (7)   To revoke and suspend licenses, and levy fines, in accordance with
§
4-1-25.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-3 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
4-1-99
§ 4-1-4 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant for a license shall submit to the Liquor Commissioner or to the
Village Clerk (who shall transmit the application to the Liquor Commissioner)
an application in writing under oath stating:
   (A)   The applicant’s name and mailing address;
   (B)   The name and address of the applicant’s business;
   (C)   If applicable, the date of the filing of the assumed name of the
business with the County Clerk;
   (D)   In case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of a state corporation or limited liability company,
the date of its incorporation or formation; or in the case of a foreign
corporation or limited liability company, the state where it was incorporated
or formed and the date of its becoming qualified to transact business in the
State of Illinois;
   (E)   The number, the date of issuance, and the date of expiration of the
applicant’s current state and local retail liquor licenses;
   (F)   The name and address of the landlord if the premises are leased, with
a copy of the lease;
   (G)   Whether the applicant has made an application for a liquor license
which has been denied, and if so, the reasons therefor;
   (H)   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked, and if so, the specific reasons thereof;
   (I)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any criminal
misdemeanor or felony, and if so, the particulars thereof;
   (J)   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering stamp, and
if so, the reasons therefor;
   (K)   Whether the applicant or any other person with an interest in the
applicant’s place of business is a public official, and if so, the particulars
thereof;
   (L)   The applicant’s name, sex, date of birth, Social Security number,
position, and percentage of ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, Social Security number, position, and percentage of ownership in the
business of every owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager, member,
and any person who owns 5% or more of the shares, membership interest, or other
ownership interest of the applicant’s corporation, limited liability company,
or other business entity or parent entity of the applicant business entity;
   (M)   In addition to any other requirement of this section, an applicant for
a special event retailer’s license shall also submit proof of adequate dram
shop insurance for the special event prior to being issued a license; and
   (N)   If said application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club, or corporation, then the same shall be signed by at least
two members of such partnership or the president and secretary of such
corporation or two authorized agents of said partnership or corporation.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-5 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Liquor Commissioner may, in the exercise of his or her discretion,
require any applicant for a new village liquor license, or any applicant for a
renewal of a village liquor license, to be fingerprinted, whether said
applicant be an individual or a partnership. Should the applicant be a
corporation or limited liability company, the Liquor Commissioner may, within
his or her discretion, require the following to be fingerprinted:
      (1)   The officers, managers, managing members, or directors of said
corporation or limited liability company; or
      (2)   Any stockholder or member owning in the aggregate more than 5% of
the capital stock or membership interests.
   (B)   All such fingerprinting shall be done by the Village Police Department
or by some other law enforcement agency designated by the Chief of Police, and
at a time and place designated by the Chief of Police. The fingerprints shall
be submitted to the appropriate state and federal agencies for processing as
available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant.
   (C)   The Liquor Commissioner may, after examination of the application,
require the submission of further information needed for a determination under
§
4-1-6 or conduct further investigations as set forth in §
4-1-2(B)(5) of this chapter.
   (D)   The Commissioner shall issue a written acceptance or rejection of an
application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or Village Clerk,
or shall notify an applicant of the reasons for further time being necessary to
complete the investigation or processing.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-6 RESTRICTION ON LICENSEES.
   (A)   No liquor license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A natural person who is not a resident of the village;
      (2)   A natural person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which such person resides;
      (3)   A natural person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A natural person who has been convicted of a felony under any
federal or state law, unless the state’s Liquor Control Commission determines
that such person has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public
trust after considering matters set forth in such person’s application and the
state’s Commission’s investigation;
      (5)   A natural person who has been convicted of keeping a place of
prostitution or keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting
prostitution that involves keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting
juvenile prostitution that involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution;
      (6)   A natural person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime
or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (7)   A person whose license issued under the Liquor Control Act has been
revoked for cause;
      (8)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (9)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder;
      (10)   (a)   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member,
officer, manager, or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the state.
         (b)   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated or organized in the state, or unless it is a foreign corporation
or foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the Business
Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability Company Act to transact
business in the state. The village shall permit and accept from an applicant
for a license under this Act proof prepared from the Secretary of State’s
website that the corporation or limited liability company is in good standing
and is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited
Liability Company Act to transact business in the state.
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by
the licensee;
      (12)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this Act or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
      (13)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
      (14)   Any law enforcing public official, including any President of the
Village Board of Trustees, any member of a Village Board of Trustees, or any
President or member of a County Board; and no such official shall have a direct
interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except
that a license may be granted to such official in relation to premises that are
not located within the village if the issuance of such license is approved by
the state’s Liquor Control Commission and except that a license may be granted
to a member of a Village Board if: the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the
license is incidental to the selling of food; the issuance of the license is
approved by the state’s Commission; the issuance of the license is in
accordance with all applicable village ordinances in effect; and the official
granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending before the
Board or Council to which the license holder is elected. Notwithstanding any
provision of this division (A)(14) to the contrary, a member of a Village Board
of Trustees other than the President of the Village Board of Trustees, may have
a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor
as long as he or she is not a law enforcing public official or a Village Board
President. To prevent any conflict of interest, the elected official with the
direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor
shall not participate in any meetings, hearings, or decisions on matters
impacting the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
Furthermore, Village President with a may have an interest in the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor as long as the Village Board has made
a Local Liquor Control Commissioner appointment that complies with the
requirements of § 4-2 of the Liquor Control Act;
      (15)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (16)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by any of § 28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), or as proscribed by §§ 28-
1.1 or 28-3, of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      (17)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under the Raffles Act or the state’s Pull Tabs and Jar Games
Act;
      (18)   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in § 6-21(a) of the Liquor
Control Act; and
      (19)   A person who does not qualify for a state retail liquor license.
   (B)   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-7 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Liquor Commissioner shall keep a complete record of all such
licenses issued and shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof.
   (B)   Upon revocation or suspension of any license, the Liquor Commissioner
shall immediately give written notice thereof to the Chief.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-8 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to an applicant until such applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Commissioner that such applicant is
covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a responsible insurance
company authorized and licensed to do business in the state insuring such
applicant against liability which such applicant may incur under the Liquor
Control Act. The evidence of the insurance policy shall indicate that the term
of the insurance is of sufficient length to encompass the period of the license
sought.
   (B)   The dram shop insurance policy required by this section shall be
maintained in force by the licensee at all times, and the licensee shall
provide evidence of insurance to the Liquor Commissioner upon the
Commissioner’s demand.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-9 INITIAL LICENSE APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The first and initial license fee for new licenses applied for between
January 1 and June 30 of any year shall be in an amount equal to the annual fee
described in §
4-1-11 plus a nonrefundable fee of $200 to defray the costs of investigation of
the applicant as provided for and pursuant to the provisions of this section,
payable in one installment. The first and initial license fee for new licenses
applied for between July 1 and December 31 for any year shall be in an amount
equal to one-half the annual fee plus the nonrefundable fee of $200 to defray
the costs of investigation of applicant as provided for and pursuant to the
provisions of this section payable in one installment.
   (B)   Any sale, transfer, or assignment of more than 5% of the shares of a
corporation shall terminate said license for the purpose of payment of a fee
for a first and initial license.
   (C)   Any bankruptcy, insolvency of a license, or any sale, transfer, or
assignment of any copartner or copartnership or copartnership interest in a
license held by a copartnership shall terminate and said license for the
purpose of payment of a fee for a first and initial license.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-10 CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   A Class G “Grocery” license shall be issued only to grocery
stores, including convenience stores, and shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor in not more than case lots, in bottles or cans only, for
consumption off the premises where sold. The annual fee for such license shall
be $360. The annual fee shall be payable in two installments, namely, $180 on
December 31 of each year and $180 on June 30 of each year.
      (2)   (a)   A Class G-P “Grocery-Pour” license shall be issued only to
grocery stores, including convenience stores, and shall entitle the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquor in not more than case lots, in bottles or cans only, for
consumption off the premises where sold, and additionally, the retail sale of
beer and wine only for consumption on premises where sold, subject to the
following additional regulations:
            1.   The area in which beer and wine is sold for consumption on
premises shall be physically segregated, with walls or partitions, from the
remainder of the store, and shall be designated as an area for consumption of
beer and wine with appropriate and prominent signage, and access to such
designated area by persons under the age of 21 shall be strictly prohibited,
and the signage shall so state;
            2.   If the licensee has licensed video gaming terminals, the beer
and wine sales for on-premises consumption shall be conducted in the same space
where the terminals are located;
            3.   No customer shall bring beer or wine in an original package
from elsewhere in the store into the area designated for on-premises
consumption, or beer and wine in from the area designated for on-premises
consumption to any other area of the store;
            4.   The licensee shall procure and continuously maintain dram shop
insurance, and show evidence thereof at the time of applying for or renewing
the license; and
            5.   The licensee shall abide by all applicable regulations of the
County Department of Public Health.
         (b)   The annual fee for such license shall be $1,200. The annual fee
shall be payable in two installments, namely, $600 on December 31 of each year
and $600 on June 30 of each year.
      (3)   A grocery store holding a Class G license may convert the license
to a Class G-P license if the Class G-P license is open, and upon filing of a
new application for a Class G-P license and approval thereof by the Liquor
Commissioner and payment of a one-time conversion fee of $420.
   (B)   A Class N “Not for Profit” license may be granted only to a club, and
shall entitle the licensee thereof to sell at retail alcoholic liquor for
consumption, but not in the original package on the premises specified in the
license. The annual fee for the license shall be $300. The annual fee shall be
payable in two installments, namely $150 on December 31 of each year and $150
on June 30 of each year.
   (C)   A Class P “Package” license shall be issued only to a package store,
and shall entitle the licensee to sell at retail alcoholic liquor in the
original package only for consumption off the premises where sold. The annual
fee for the license shall be $600. The annual fee shall be payable in two
installments, namely $300 on December 31 of each year and $300 on June 30 of
each year.
   (D)   A Class R-1 “Restaurant 1” license shall be issued only to a
restaurant and shall entitle the licensee to sell at retail beer and wine only,
by the glass, in bottles, or in cans, for consumption on the premises where
sold. The annual fee for the license shall be $600. The annual fee shall be
payable in two installments, namely $300 on December 31 of each year and $300
on June 30 of each year.
   (E)   A Class R-2 “Restaurant 2” license shall be issued only to a
restaurant and shall entitle the licensee to sell at retail beer and wine by
the glass, in bottles, or in cans, or other alcoholic liquor not in the
original package, for consumption on the premises. The annual fee for the
license shall be $720. The annual fee shall be payable in two installments,
namely $360 on December 31 of each year and $360 on June 30 of each year.
   (F)   A Class SE “Special Event” license shall be issued only to a bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans’
organization which operates without profit to its members, and which has been
in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license and which has had, during that entire five-year
period, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their/its objectives.
The license shall authorize the sale at retail during a special event on the
premises specified, and during the time specified therein, of alcoholic liquor
by a special event retailer. The fee for the license shall be $100; the term of
the license shall not exceed three days.
   (G)   A Class T “Tavern” license shall entitle the licensee to sell at
retail alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises specified and to sell
at retail alcoholic liquor in the original package for consumption off the
premises where sold. The annual fee for the license shall be $1,200. The annual
fee shall be payable in two installments, namely $600 on December 31 of each
year and $600 on June 30 of each year.
   (H)   Initially, the number of licenses issued by the village shall be as
follows:
      (1)   There may be one Class G licenses;
      (2)   There may be one Class G-P license;
      (3)   There may be zero Class N licenses;
      (4)   There may be one Class P licenses;
      (5)   There may be zero Class R-1 licenses;
      (6)   There may be zero Class R-2 licenses;
      (7)   There may be one Class SE license outstanding at any time; and
      (8)   There may be nine Class T licenses.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014; Ord. 16-01, passed 3-15-2016; Ord. 17-02, passed
1-17-2017; Ord. 21-11, passed 7-20-2021; Ord. 21-18, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 4-1-11 TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS.
   Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on December 31 following the
issuance thereof. Any licensee may renew such license at the expiration
thereof, provided that it is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purpose; provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall
not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Village
Board from decreasing or limiting the number of classes of licenses to be
issued within the village.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, effective for a period
not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as provided herein,
and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable for transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall cease upon the death of the licensee, and shall not descend
by the laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee.
   (B)   No refunds shall be made of any portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-13 INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for liquor licenses which are incomplete or fail to
contain the statements of information required by §
4-1-4 shall be rejected by the Liquor Commissioner. The Commissioner shall
issue a written rejection of such application setting forth the deficiencies in
said application within 60 days of its receipt by the Liquor Commissioner or by
the Village Clerk. Prior to such rejection, the applicant may submit the
additional information or statements required to complete such application in
accordance with §
4-1-4.
   (B)   Administrative or legal expenses incurred in reviewing incomplete
liquor license applications, advising the applicant of such deficiencies, and
rejecting such applications shall be paid by the applicant. A bill or invoice
shall be submitted to the applicant specifying the additional administrative or
legal expenses incurred in processing the applicant’s incomplete liquor license
application, which shall be paid by the applicant together with the annual
license fee prior to the issuance of such liquor license.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-14 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All such fees shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time application
is made. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant, except for the nonrefundable fee set forth in §
4-1-12. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited as set forth
above, and no portion thereof shall be refunded.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-15 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Closing hours.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the holder of any G-P, N, R-1, R-2,
or T license issued under this chapter to sell or offer for sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor in the village during the following hours: Monday through
Sunday: 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.
         (b)   The licensee shall cause all customers to vacate the licensed
premises within one-half hour after the time at which sales of alcoholic liquor
are required by this section to be terminated, and shall not permit the
consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person on the licensed premises after
the time customers are required to vacate and before the time the licensee may
next commence sales under this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a G or P license to sell or
offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the village during the
following hours:
         (a)   Monday through Saturday: 12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   Sunday: 12:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
   (B)   Election days. Subject to division (A) above, licensees may sell at
retail any alcoholic liquor on the day of any national, state, county, or
village election, including primary elections, during the hours the polls are
open, within the political area in which such election is being held.
   (C)   Refilling original packages. No person licensed under this chapter
shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic
liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at
retail any bottles, casks, or other containers containing alcoholic liquor,
unless in original packages, except vinous beverages and pitchers of beer as
permitted elsewhere herein.
   (D)   Quantity sales for on-premises consumption. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee to sell, give away or permit to be sold, served, or given away for
consumption on the licensed premises any distilled spirits except by the glass,
in individual servings not exceeding three fluid ounces.
   (E)   Displaying license. Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
   (F)   Live music.
      (1)   A Class T licensee may have live music on the licensed premises,
subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   Live music shall not be audible beyond the property line of the
licensed premises;
         (b)   There shall be no live music between the hours of midnight and
noon; and
         (c)   The licensee shall comply with the orders of any police officer
to reduce the volume of the live music if the police officer hears music beyond
the property line of the licensed premises.
      (2)   “Live music” includes karaoke and performances by disk jockeys.
   (G)   Off-premises consumption. No licensee or officer, employee, or agent
of a licensee shall permit any person on the licensed premises from leaving the
licensed premises with any open container of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014; Ord. 23-05, passed 6-6-2023; Ord. 24-17, passed
11-19-2024)
§ 4-1-16 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale or retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or
naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or restaurants or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if such place of business or use so exempted is established for
such purposes prior to the establishment of any such church, school, home for
the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any
military or naval station, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet since of any church or
school, where such church or school has been established within such 100 feet
since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the
distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used
for worship services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor, if any such sales
are limited to period when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   No such license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age, or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for such
minors.
   (D)   A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only when and upon the written permit to make such change shall
be issued by the Local Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   No licensee, other than an SE licensee, may conduct sales of alcoholic
liquor out of doors or shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor out of
doors on the licensed premises.
   (F)   No licensee, other than an SE licensee, may be located on any lot
which is not zoned “C” (commercial) under the village zoning ordinance.
   (G)   There will be no sales of liquor in any building belonging to the
village. There shall be no outdoor sales of liquor anywhere on village-owned
property, except when expressly permitted by the Village Board in connection
with an SE license, and after presentation by the licensee of dram shop
insurance naming the village as an additional insured in such amounts as are
satisfactory to the Village Board in its sole discretion.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
4-1-99
§ 4-1-17 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with any and
all village and county ordinances regulating the condition of the premises used
for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-18 VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed (other than a restaurant, hotel, or club) no screen,
blind, curtain, partition, article, or thing shall be permitted in the windows
or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises, which
shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road, or sidewalk at all times. No booth, screen, partition, or other
obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or
about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a clear view of the
entire interior from the street, road, or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is
sold for consumption on the premises shall be continuously lighted during
business hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of
the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
   (B)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee, or be
permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license shall
be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this section, the Village President shall have the right to
require the filing of plans, drawings, and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as above required.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
4-1-99
§ 4-1-19 PREMISES RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensed premises shall be operated or occupied in violation of any
building, fire, health or safety code, rule, regulation, occupancy, or capacity
limitation established or adopted by the village, the state, or the county.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of a Class T licensee to maintain peace and order
on the licensed premises and to maintain the premises free from rowdiness,
fighting, brawling, disorderly conduct, and similar behavior on the part of the
patrons. Where there is a history of rowdiness, fighting, brawling, and
disorderly conduct and similar behavior on the part of the patrons, the Class T
licensee shall have the duty to institute and thereafter provide security
measures sufficient to restrain such behavior and to protect the safety and
security of patrons.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-20 PERSONNEL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Change in personnel.
      (1)   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than 5% of the stock, LLC membership, or other
ownership interest, managers or assistant managers of establishments licensed
under this chapter shall be reported in writing to the Liquor Commissioner
within ten days of the change. All such new personnel shall meet all the
standards of this chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license.
All such changes in personnel shall be subject to review by the Liquor
Commissioner.
      (2)   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, said license shall terminate.
      (3)   When a license has been issued to a corporation or limited
liability company, and a change takes place in officers, directors, managers,
members, or shareholders of more than 5% of the stock or membership interest,
resulting in the holding of office or ownership of such shares of stock or LLC
membership interests by one who is not eligible for a license, said license
shall terminate.
      (4)   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any persons who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any persons who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation, or distribution of such liquor. No employee, agent, or
manager, while on duty within the premises, shall use or consume any illegal
drugs or alcoholic liquor, or be under the influence of illegal drugs or
alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Supervision. A license which operates with a manager or assistant
manager shall have on duty at all times such manager or assistant manager when
the license is in effect.
   (D)   Training requirement. Employees of all licensees, other than SE
licensees, shall complete a BASSET training course from a licensed BASSET
instructor.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-21 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   (B)   Gambling. It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor except for video gaming as permitted by §§
4-2-1 through
4-2-3  and
4-2-99 .
   (C)   Solicitation. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, manager, or other
person in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage, employ, or permit the
engagement or employment of any persons, nor shall any person be permitted to
remain on said premises who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to
purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor or sexual favors or services for
herself, himself, or any other person; nor shall any person, whether employer,
entertainer, or otherwise, solicit any patron or customer therein to purchase
alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for herself, himself, or any other person
therein. However, nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manager,
waitress, or waiter who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and
serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment
as such manager, waitress, or waiter.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
4-1-99
§ 4-1-22 SALES TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No licensee or officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known to be an habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient, or in need of mental treatment No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give, or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service. It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of 21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose
of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (B)   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
read substantially as follows.
      WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
You are subject to a fine up to $500 under the ordinances of the Village of
Grandview if you purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a liquor license, or his or her
agent or employee, to suffer or permit any persons under the age of 21 to be or
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place where such licensed premises is located; provided that this shall
not apply to any person under the age of 21 who is accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or to that portion of any licensed premises which derives its
principal business from the sale or service of commodities other than alcoholic
liquor.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit
any person of which he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any
provision of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to draw,
pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises. It shall be
unlawful for persons under the age of 21 to be employed as waiters and
waitresses to deliver to customers alcoholic liquor drawn, poured, or mixed by
another. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
dispense, sell, or deliver any alcoholic liquor in the original package,
bottle, or case for consumption off the premises of any licensed establishment
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
4-1-99
§ 4-1-23 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT BY MINORS; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Purchase of possession of alcoholic liquor by a person under 21 years
of age.
      (1)   Any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor of have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If a licensee or such licensee’s agent or employee believes, has
reason to believe, or should have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
such licensee, agent, or employee shall, before making such sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification (containing proof
of age) issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official
duties. Reasonable care in compliance with the provisions of this division (A)
(2) shall be competent evidence and may be considered in prosecution,
revocation, or suspension for the violation of any section of this chapter
relating to revocation or suspension for the violation of any other provision
of this chapter. A licensee may at its option require a customer to execute the
following an age and identity verification form, which, in conjunction with
positive identification, shall constitute evidence of reasonable care:
      AGE AND IDENTITY VERIFICATION FORM
Name:
                                                                                                                                      
         [First]            [Middle Initial]            [Last]
Address:
                                                                                                                                   
City:                                      State:                   Zip:
                         
Date of Birth: / /
Drivers License No.:
                                                                                                                 
Drivers License Expiration Date: / /
   I, the undersigned, certify that the statements set forth in this Age and
Identity Verification Form are made upon my personal knowledge and such
statements are true and correct.
Signature:                                                           
Date:                                     
      (3)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface an identification card,
use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
      (4)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
21 years is forbidden.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
possession and dispensing, or consumption by a person under the age of 21 years
of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
4-1-99
§ 4-1-24 VIOLATION OF RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX ACT; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Liquor
Commissioner, upon the complaint of the State Department of Revenue, may refuse
the issuance or renewal of a retail license, or suspend or revoke such license,
for any of the following violations of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act,
approved June 28, 1933, as amended:
      (1)   Failure to make a tax return;
      (2)   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all of part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration; or
      (6)   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the State Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
   (B)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Liquor Commissioner that a licensee has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Liquor Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by
the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged
there is reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-25 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE; FINES; NOTICE; HEARING;
APPEAL.
   (A)   The Liquor Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license if he or she
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this Act or
of any valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the Village Board or any
applicable rule or regulations established by the Liquor Commissioner or the
state’s Commission which is not inconsistent with law. In lieu of suspension or
revocation, the Liquor Commissioner may instead levy a fine on the licensee for
such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation;
each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Not more than $10,000 in fines under this section may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from such finds
shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the village.
   (B)   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Liquor
Commissioner with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be open
to the public and the Liquor Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing
and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. If the Liquor
Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he or
she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard
during that period, except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the
conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed premises such order
shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses.
   (C)   The Liquor Commissioner shall, within five days after such hearing, if
he or she determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons for
such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the fine, the
period of suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a
copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee.
   (D)   The licensee, after the receipt of such order of suspension or
revocation, shall have the privilege within a period of 20 days after the
receipt of such order of suspension or revocation of appealing the order to the
state’s Commission for a decision sustaining, reversing, or modifying the order
of the Liquor Commissioner. If the state’s Commission affirms the Liquor
Commissioner’s order to suspend or revoke the license at the first hearing, the
appellant shall cease to engage in the business for which the license was
issued, until the Liquor Commissioner’s order is terminated by its own
provisions or reversed upon rehearing or by the courts.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-26 FORFEITURE OF FEES.
   Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked as provided for in this
chapter, the licensee shall incur a forfeiture of all monies that have been
paid for the license.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-27 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   When a license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
to any person for a period of one year thereafter for the conduct of the
business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in such revoked license.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 4-1-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person other than a licensee violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   A licensee violating any provision of this chapter may be fined by the
Local Commission in lieu of suspension or revocation. The fine shall not exceed
$1,000 for each such violation. Each day on which the violation occurs shall
constitute a separate violation. Not more than $10,000 in fines under this
section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of the licensee’s
license.
   (C)   Proceeds of fines imposed by the Liquor Commissioner shall be paid
into the village treasury.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 2: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
4-2-1   Definitions
   
4-2-2   Video gaming permitted
   
4-2-3   Payment of video gaming fee
   
4-2-99   Penalty
§ 4-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail establishment which is licensed under the
liquor control ordinance of the village, and where alcoholic liquor is drawn,
poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the premises.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including, but not limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, as
authorized by the state’s Gaming Board utilizing a video display and
microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or credits that can
be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that directly
dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 4-2-2 VIDEO GAMING PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any provision of any village ordinance heretofore adopted,
including, but not limited to, § 21 of Ord. 12-03, “an ordinance pertaining to
liquor control” adopted on April 17, video gaming from video gaming terminals
licensed by the state and operated pursuant to the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/1 et seq., is permitted in the village at licensed establishments, licensed
fraternal establishments, and licensed veterans establishments.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 4-2-3 PAYMENT OF VIDEO GAMING FEE.
   (A)   Each licensed establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, and
licensed veterans establishment within the village shall pay a fee of $25 per
video gaming terminal per year to the village.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid:
      (1)   Upon initial receipt of a license from the state (prorated for the
number of days remaining in the year from the initial date of licensure); and
      (2)   On or before January 15 of each year thereafter.
   (C)   Upon payment of the fee, the licensed establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment, or licensed veterans establishment shall provide the
village with a copy of the establishment’s current license from the state.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 4-2-99 PENALTY.
   Any licensed establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed
veterans establishment which fails to pay the fee and provide a copy of the
state license as set forth in §
4-2-3 shall be subject to a fine of $500.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 7-17-2012)
CHAPTER 3: COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
4-3-1   Definitions
   
4-3-2   Licenses required; registration of devices
   
4-3-3   Licenses and registration fees
   
4-3-4   Placement or use of unregistered devices
   
4-3-5   License decals
   
4-3-6   Devices constituting nuisances
   
4-3-7   Gambling prohibited
   
4-3-8   Revocation
§ 4-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device which is
operated or put into operation in whole or in part by the insertion of a coin,
token, or similar object, is operated for amusement or skill only, and does not
dispense any form of payoff, prize, or reward other than free replays. The term
includes coin-operated video games, pinball machines, and billiard and pool
tables. The term excludes any bona fide vending machine, in which gaming or
amusement features are not incorporated, and it excludes any gambling device or
slot machine. The term excludes juke boxes playing music only. In the case of
devices which may be played with or without a coin-operated device, only the
attached device which requires a coin to operate it shall be deemed to be a
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE does not include
licensed video gaming terminals.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any location, facility, or conveyance open to the general
public or to an organization or incorporated association or group.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 4-3-2 LICENSES REQUIRED; REGISTRATION OF DEVICES.
   (A)   Annually, each establishment in which there is one or more coin-
operated amusement device shall obtain a license for the establishment, and
shall register all such devices, as provided in this chapter. The license term
shall commence on January 1 and expire at the end of December 31.
   (B)   All persons operating coin-operated amusement devices in the village
as of the effective date of this chapter shall have a grace period to and
including January 31, 2006 in which to obtain a license for calendar year 2006.
Thereafter, annual licenses shall be obtained in December of each year for the
upcoming year.
   (C)   The Village President shall be the licensing authority for the village
and shall grant an establishment license upon submission of an application on a
form prescribed by the Village President, together with the applicable license
fee and registration fees. The form shall include, as a minimum:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the establishment;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of all persons having more
than a 5% interest in the establishment;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of at least one manager of
the establishment;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the coin-
operated amusement devices in the establishment;
      (5)   The make, model, and serial number of all coin-operated amusement
devices in the establishment as of the time of application; and
      (6)   A statement that no coin-operated amusement device will be used for
gambling.
   (D)   No license shall be granted to any establishment where any manager or
owner of more than a 5% interest of the establishment has been convicted of a
gambling offense in the previous five years.
   (E)   No license shall be granted to any establishment which has had a
license revoked within the previous year.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 4-3-3 LICENSES AND REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   The license fee for an establishment shall be $150.
   (B)   The registration fee for each coin-operated amusement device shall be:
      (1)   No additional fee for the first device in a licensed establishment;
and
      (2)   A fee of $150 for each additional device in a licensed
establishment.
   (C)   If during the term of a license, an establishment increases the number
of coin-operated amusement devices, the establishment shall register the new
device and pay the additional registration fee.
   (D)   Whenever an applicant applies for a license, or applies to increase
the number of registered devices after June 30 in any given year, the license
and registration fee through December 31 of that year shall be one-half of the
amount set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 4-3-4 PLACEMENT OR USE OF UNREGISTERED DEVICES.
   No manager or operator of an establishment shall allow the placement or use
of any coin-operated amusement device in an establishment unless the
establishment has been licensed and the device has been registered pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 4-3-5 LICENSE DECALS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall issue to the licensed operator of any coin-
operated amusement device a license decal for each registered device placed on
a registration list. This license decal shall indicate the device registration
number and the year of issue.
   (B)   Any licensed operator may, upon proof of loss or destruction of a
decal and payment of a replacement fee of $5 to the City Clerk, obtain a new
decal. The Village Clerk shall note the destruction of the original decal.
   (C)   The license decal shall be prominently displayed on the coin-operated
amusement device or in a prominent place in the establishment in which the
device is located.
   (D)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of any coin-
operated amusement device shall be prominently displayed on the device.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 4-3-6 DEVICES CONSTITUTING NUISANCES.
   No coin-operated amusement device shall be operated so as to constitute a
nuisance.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 4-3-7 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All owners and managers of each establishment shall be responsible for
preventing the use of any coin-operated amusement device in connection with
gambling of any kind.
   (B)   No gambling activities shall be conducted in any establishment where
any coin-operated amusement device is located except for video gaming as
provided by the village’s of video gaming ordinance.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 4-3-8 REVOCATION.
   The Village President may revoke the license of any establishment whenever
the Village President determines that a false statement has been made in any
application; or the establishment or an owner or manager thereof has violated
this chapter, or where a gambling offense has occurred in the establishment.
Prior to revocation of a license, the Village President shall give the licensee
an opportunity for a hearing. In the event of a license revocation, no license
shall be issued for any owner, operator, or manager of the establishment, nor
shall any license be granted for another establishment at the same address as
that of the offending establishment for one calendar year following the
revocation or any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-2013)
CHAPTER 4: SOLICITORS
Section
   
4-4-1   Definitions
   
4-4-2   Posting of notice regarding solicitation
   
4-4-3   Duty to comply with notices and requests to leave premises
   
4-4-4   Solicitation license required
   
4-4-5   Registration fee; investigation
   
4-4-6   Duty to carry, exhibit license
   
4-4-7   Revocation of license; appeals
   
4-4-8   Hours of solicitation and exempt activities
   
4-4-99   Penalty
§ 4-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police or other police officer designated by
the Chief of Police to carry out the Chief’s duties under this chapter.
   EXEMPT ACTIVITIES. The door-to-door seeking of donations to, or selling
goods on behalf of, not-for-profit corporations and organizations; door-to-door
dissemination of political, religious, charitable, and other noncommercial
information; and door-to-door sale or solicitation of newspaper, magazines, and
books.
   SOLICITATION. The entry on private property without a prior appointment with
the occupant thereof for the purpose of selling, leasing, or obtaining orders
for the sale or lease of goods or services.
   SOLICITOR. A person, firm, or corporation engaged in solicitation.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 4-4-2 POSTING OF NOTICE REGARDING SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to secure protection from uninvited solicitation
as provided by this chapter shall comply with the directions in this section.
   (B)   Notice of refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence or
place of business, may be given in the following manner:
      (1)   A weatherproof card, not less than three inches by four inches in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
or business, and containing the following words: “NO SOLICITORS”; and
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the card shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the card.
   (C)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor that the solicitor does not have an invitation to solicit at the
premises.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 4-4-3 DUTY TO COMPLY WITH NOTICES AND REQUESTS TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   Any solicitor, whether or not licensed, and other than those engaged
in exempt activities, going onto the premises of any residence or business in
the village with a notice stating “NO SOLICITORS” shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor, whether or not licensed, and any person engaged in
exempt activities, who has gained entrance into any residence or business,
whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 4-4-4 SOLICITATION LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage or attempt to engage in
solicitation, other than exempt activities, in the village without having first
obtained a license from the Chief of Police. On an application form provided by
the Chief of Police, the solicitor shall provide his or her identification,
including: name, address, phone number, and driver’s license number; filename
of the solicitor’s employer; the nature of the products or services involved in
the solicitation; the name of the manufacturers of such products or of the
organization which the solicitor is representing; and the proposed method of
operation in the village. No person shall make any false statement upon any
application. The act of signing an application shall constitute consent to a
criminal background check by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997) Penalty, see §
4-4-99
§ 4-4-5 REGISTRATION FEE; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay to the Chief of Police a nonrefundable fee in
the amount of $30 at the time of application. The Chief of Police shall turn
the funds over to the Treasurer for deposit into the General Fund of the
village.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the funds and the completed application form, the
Chief of Police shall commence an investigation, including a criminal
background check, of the applicant. The Chief of Police shall complete the
investigation and grant or deny the application for license within three
business days.
   (C)   A license application shall be denied for the following reasons only:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a misdemeanor in the preceding
five years or a felony in the preceding ten years;
      (2)   The applicant or the business of which the applicant is an agent or
representative has been found guilty of, or entered into a consent decree with
respect to, any violation of the Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Trade Practices
Act; and/or
      (3)   A false statement has been made on the application.
   (D)   If the license application is granted, the Chief of Police shall issue
a solicitor’s license which shall state the name and address of the license,
the type of business engaged in by the licensee, and the expiration of the date
of the license, which shall be 30 days from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997; Ord. 21-14, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 22-10, passed
8-16-2022) Penalty, see §
4-4-99
§ 4-4-6 DUTY TO CARRY, EXHIBIT LICENSE.
   Each person shall, at all times while engaged in solicitation in the village
other than exempt activities, shall carry upon his or her person the
solicitor’s license issued pursuant to this chapter. The license shall be
exhibited by the licensee upon the request of any police officer or any person
solicited.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 4-4-7 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEALS.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by the by the
Chief of Police because of any violation by the registrant of this chapter, or
of any other ordinance of the village, or of any state or federal law. A person
whose license application is denied, or whose license is revoked may, within
five calendar days thereof, appeal the denial or revocation to the Village
President, who shall within ten days thereafter conduct an informal hearing
regarding the denial or revocation and either affirm or reverse the action of
the Chief of Police. A person whose license has been revoked, or whose
application has been denied, may not apply for another license for a period of
two years from the date of revocation or denial.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 4-4-8 HOURS OF SOLICITATION AND EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall engage in solicitation or in exempt activities within the
village other than between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday and 12:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997) Penalty, see §
4-4-99
§ 4-4-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500. Each
provision violated, and each day a violation occurs, is a separate offense.
   (B)   Corporations and other entities shall be separately liable for
violations of this chapter by their employees and agents. Each violation by
each employee and each agent shall be a separate offense for a corporation or
other entity employing such employee or agent.
   (C)   (1)   A person charged with a violation of §
4-4-5(A) shall, on conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$50.
      (2)   A person charged with a subsequent violation of §
4-4-5(A) shall, on conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$100 for each day the person is convicted of violating the terms of §
4-4-5(A).
(Ord. 97-12, passed 11-18-1997; Ord. 21-14, passed 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 5: ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
4-5-1   Definitions
   
4-5-2   License required
   
4-5-3   License, when not required
   
4-5-4   Application for license
   
4-5-5   Issuance and denial of license
   
4-5-6   Regulations governing itinerant merchants
   
4-5-7   Revocation and appeal
   
4-5-8   Duration; renewals
   
4-5-9   Keeping records of licensing
   
4-5-10   License fee
   
4-5-99   Penalty
§ 4-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who or which engages in a
transient or temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, or
merchandise, including food and beverages, within the village.
      (2)   And who, in furtherance of such purpose, leases, uses, or occupies
any temporary structure, motor vehicle, trailer, tent lot, street, alley,
sidewalk, or any other such place, public or private, within the village for
the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise, or for securing
orders for future delivery of such goods, wares, or merchandise.
   PERSON. Any person, organization, firm, or corporation.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any business,
occupation, or pursuit as an itinerant merchant within the village without
first having obtained a license therefor, issued in compliance with this
chapter, unless exempted herein.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007) Penalty, see §
4-5-99
§ 4-5-3 LICENSE, WHEN NOT REQUIRED.
   This chapter is not intended to regulate, and no license is required, for
the following activities:
   (A)   The sale of goods, wares, or merchandise at a organized charitable,
religious, civic, local, or any other not-for-profit organization sponsored
event such as a flea market or rummage sale;
   (B)   An occasional garage sale or yard sale at a person’s residence; and
   (C)   A sidewalk sale or other outdoor display or sale of merchandise by a
person with an established and permanent retail business in the village.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-4 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Prior to engaging in the business of itinerant merchant, each person shall
submit to the Chief of Police a written application for a license on a form
furnished by the village, which shall contain the following information
requested on the application:
   (A)   The applicant’s name, current address, telephone number, date of
birth, and Social Security number;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person, firm,
corporation, or organization which the applicant is employed by or represents,
and the length of time of such employment or representation;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business in which the
applicant is engaged, and the kind of products or services to be sold or
rendered;
   (D)   The applicant’s “Illinois Business Tax Number” as issued by the
state’s Department of Revenue;
   (E)   The period of time for which the license is requested and the
approximate hours of the day that such function shall be performed;
   (F)   The place or places where the business may be carried on, and a
written statement from the owner of such place or places authorizing the
applicant to conduct such business on such premises;
   (G)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
a license, if any, as submitted to the village;
   (H)   A statement whether a license, under the provisions of this chapter,
or any other similar ordinance of the village or any county or municipality,
has been revoked, together with the details thereof;
   (I)   A statement as to whether the applicant or the person or persons
having the management or supervision of the applicant’s business have been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal regulations,
together with the details thereof;
   (J)   Credentials from the person, firm, corporation, or organization for
which the applicant proposes to do business and authorizing the applicant to
act as such representative;
   (K)   A description of any motor vehicle or trailer to be used in connection
with the business, together with the current license number issued by the
Secretary of State or such other identification as will serve to identify the
vehicle or trailer and its owner;
   (L)   A list of the names and addresses of all persons who will participate
in any way in the business; and
   (M)   If the applicant plans to sell prepared food, a copy of a food handler
permit issued by the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-5 ISSUANCE AND DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the license application, the Chief of Police shall
conduct a criminal background check on the applicant and all persons named in
the application. After consideration of the application and all information and
data obtained relative thereto, the Chief of Police shall license the applicant
as an itinerant merchant if the Chief determines that the applicant has the
qualifications and meets the requirements of this chapter, and all other
applicable laws and ordinances. Otherwise, the Chief of Police shall deny the
application. The Chief of Police may, in his or her discretion, allow the
applicant to make minor emendations and corrections in the application not
affecting the applicant’s qualifications as an itinerant merchant.
   (B)   The application shall also be denied:
      (1)   If the applicant or any person who is to participate in the
business, or any person having management or supervision of the business, has
ever been convicted of a felony, or has been convicted of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude within ten years prior to the date of the
application;
      (2)   If the purpose of the business is otherwise unlawful; and/or
      (3)   If the village has denied a previous application for itinerant
merchant license submitted by the applicant within the previous year, or
revoked the applicant’s license as an itinerant merchant in the previous five
years.
   (C)   If the application for a license is approved, the Chief of Police
shall forthwith issue the applicant a license, provided the applicant pays the
license fee established pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   The license shall contain a permanently affixed photograph of the
applicant and copies thereof shall contain the names, addresses, and the
photograph of each person who is authorized to conduct business on behalf of
the applicant.
   (E)   The applicant may appeal any denial of an application to the Village
President, whose disposition of the appeal shall be further subject to review
pursuant to the Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-6 REGULATIONS GOVERNING ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   No itinerant merchant may display, offer for sale, or sell any goods,
merchandise, or services in any area classified in a residential district by
the village zoning ordinance, and no license shall be issued with respect to
any such area.
   (B)   No itinerant merchant may display, offer for sale, or sell any goods,
merchandise, or services before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m., Monday through
Thursday, or before 8:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m., Friday and Saturday, or
before 11:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (C)   At all times engaging or carrying out such business in the village, an
itinerant merchant shall prominently display the license granted by the
village, and shall exhibit same whenever he or she is requested to do so by any
police officer or by any customer or prospective customer.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 20-05, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 4-5-7 REVOCATION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any license issued hereinafter shall be revoked by the Chief of Police
if:
      (1)   The licensee or any agent of the licensee is convicted for a
violation of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee ceases to possess the qualifications required for
licensing or has otherwise become disqualified for the issuance of a license
under this chapter;
      (3)   It comes to the attention of the Chief that the applicant has made
a false material statement in the application; or
      (4)   The licensee sells prepared food without a current permit from the
county’s Board of Health.
   (B)   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be
given by the Chief of Police to the holder of the license by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the applicant’s residence address as set
forth in the application. Immediately upon the mailing of such notice, the
license shall become null and void, subject to the licensee’s right of appeal
   (C)   The licensee may appeal the revocation to the Village President, whose
disposition of the appeal shall be further subject to review pursuant to the
Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-8 DURATION; RENEWALS.
   (A)   No license granted hereunder shall have a duration exceeding one
calendar year.
   (B)   Except as set forth in division (C) below, a person whose license has
expired shall resubmit an application before a new license may be issued.
   (C)   A license granted hereunder with a duration of less than one calendar
year may be renewed for any period or periods upon payment of the applicable
license fee and without resubmission of an application, so long as the period
of the original license and all renewals thereof does not exceed, in the
aggregate, one year.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-9 KEEPING RECORDS OF LICENSING.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept an accurate record of every
application received and acted upon, together with all other information and
data pertaining thereto, all licenses issued hereunder, and a record of the
denial of applications.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-10 LICENSE FEE.
   Each applicant shall pay an initial fee of $15 for handling and processing
of each application. Upon approval and prior to the issuance of a license by
the Village Clerk pursuant to this chapter, a license fee shall be paid as
follows:
   (A)   For a license of up to one week’s duration: $10;
   (B)   For a license of more than one week but less than eight months’
duration: $20 per month or part thereof; and
   (C)   For a license of over eight months and up to one year’s duration: $85.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 4-5-99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $750.
Any person who conducts any business described in this chapter, without first
obtaining a license as described herein, shall be assessed a fine of not less
than $250 and not more than $750 for each day a violation occurs.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 12-18-2007)
CHAPTER 6: SECOND-HAND STORES
Section
   
4-6-1   Definition
   
4-6-2   Regulations governing second-hand stores
   
4-6-99   Penalty
§ 4-6-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECOND-HAND STORE. A retail establishment which sells or offers for sale to
the public, used goods, articles, or other items of personal properly which
have been previously owned by a person other than the retail establishment or
the owner or operator thereof, before being offered for sale by, or placed on
consignment with, such retail establishment. SECOND-HAND STORE does not include
pawnbrokers as defined by the Pawnbroker Regulation Act.
(Ord. 99-37, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 4-6-2 REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECOND-HAND STORES.
   (A)   Each second-hand store shall require two forms of identification to be
provided by each person providing goods, articles, and other items of personal
property to the second-hand store for resale or for sale upon consignment. One
of the two forms of identification shall include such person’s residence
address, and one of the two forms of identification shall contain such person’s
photograph. Acceptable forms of identification shall include, but are not
limited to: driver’s license; Social Security card; utility bill; employee or
student identification card; credit card; or a civic, union, or professional
association membership card.
   (B)   Each second hand store shall maintain a true and accurate record of
all goods, articles, and items of personal property received or purchased by
the second-hand store for resale or sale on consignment. Such records shall
include the name and address of the person from whom such goods, articles, or
items are purchased or accepted on consignment, as determined pursuant to
division (A) above; a general description of such goods, articles, or items;
and if any item has a serial number, the serial number thereof; and the date
and time the goods, articles, or items were purchased by the second- hand store
or placed on consignment.
   (C)   The records maintained pursuant to division (B) above shall be
available upon request for inspection and copying by the Village Police
Department or any other law enforcement agency with jurisdiction in the
village. The records shall be maintained for a period of two years.
   (D)   No goods, articles, or items purchased by a second-hand store, or
placed on consignment for sale therein, shall be resold for a period of 48
hours after receipt thereof by the owner or operator of the second-hand store.
   (E)   No second-hand store shall purchase goods, articles, or items for
resale, or accept consignment of goods, articles, or items for sale, from any
minor or from any intoxicated person.
   (F)   The records maintained pursuant to division (B) above shall be
confidential, and shall not be used or disclosed by the Village Police
Department except in connection with a an investigation or charge of a felony
or misdemeanor, or in connection with a request in connection with an
investigation or charge of a felony or misdemeanor from another law enforcement
agency, the State’s Attorney of the county, or a court of law.
   (G)   The owner and operator of each second-hand store, and each officer,
director, and manager of any firm or corporation which is the owner or operator
of a second-hand store, is responsible for violations of this chapter by his,
her, or its employees and agents.
(Ord. 99-37, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 4-6-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$250 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each time an owner or operator or
agent of a second-hand store purchases goods, items, or articles for resale, or
accepts consignment of items for sale, in violation of this chapter,
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 99-37, passed 9-7-1999)
CHAPTER 7: SOLID WASTE HAULERS
Section
   
4-7-1   License required
   
4-7-2   License application
   
4-7-3   Licensing procedure; appeals
   
4-7-4   Conditions of licensure
   
4-7-5   Rate structures and customer contract
   
4-7-6   Unremarkability of recyclables
   
4-7-7   Unlicensed waste collection prohibited
   
4-7-8   License duration; fee; contractual obligations
   
4-7-9   Records
   
4-7-10   Enforcement
   
4-7-99   Penalty
§ 4-7-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of solid waste
hauling or disposal within the corporate limits of the village unless licensed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010) Penalty, see §
4-7-99
§ 4-7-2 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation may obtain a license to collect solid
waste within the village by submitting an application for license to the
Village Clerk and paying an annual license fee as set forth in §
4-7-8.
   (B)   The applications shall be on forms prescribed by the village, and
shall contain the following information about and agreements of the waste
hauler:
      (1)   The name, business address, and telephone number of the person,
firm, or corporation;
      (2)   If the waste hauler is a corporation, the corporation shall provide
a certificate of good standing and the name, address, and telephone number of
the corporation’s president and of its registered agent;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall provide the
names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all partners holding greater than a
5% interest;
      (4)   If the applicant is doing business under an assumed name, the
applicant shall provide a copy of the assumed name certificate filed with the
County Clerk, if a natural person, and of the assumed name certificate filed
with the Secretary of State, if a corporation;
      (5)   The applicant shall provide proof of liability insurance in the
amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence, including insurance for each vehicle, and
shall agree to keep such insurance in occurring the term of the license;
      (6)   The applicant shall provide proof of workers’s compensation
insurance covering its employees in the statutory amount and shall agree to
keep such insurance in force during the term of its license;
      (7)   The applicant shall attach a schedule of rates which it will charge
upon the license being granted, and shall agree to provide the village with
written notice of any rate changes at least 60 days in advance of rate changes;
however, the first notification after passage of this chapter shall require
only a 30-day notification;
      (8)   The applicant shall agree to observe all provisions and conditions
of this chapter during the term of its license;
      (9)   If, in accordance with §
4-7-6, the applicant proposes not to recycle a class of recyclable materials
due to the unavailability of markets, the applicant shall include with the
application, or may submit under separate cover, proof of the unavailability of
the market;
      (10)   The application shall be signed by the applicant or a responsible
officer of the applicant; and
      (11)   The applicant shall agree to clearly mark each vehicle used for
solid waste collection with the applicant’s name.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-3 LICENSING PROCEDURE; APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for solid waste hauling licenses shall be submitted
to the Village Clerk, who shall process the applications within seven working
days and either grant or deny the license. If the license is denied, the
village shall state the reason for the denial in writing.
      (2)   Thereupon, the applicant may appeal in accordance with division (B)
below, or may within ten days resubmit a license application curing any
deficiencies without having to pay an additional license fee. The village shall
grant the license or render a final decision denying the license, within seven
working days of resubmission.
   (B)   In the event a license is denied, the applicant may appeal the denial
of the application to the Village Board within seven working days of the final
denial, and may request a hearing. The Village Board’s determination shall be
reviewable in accordance with state statutes pertaining to administrative
review.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-4 CONDITIONS OF LICENSURE.
   A licensee under this chapter shall, as a condition of licensure, do the
following things.
   (A)   The licensee shall pick up and segregate by class the following
classes of solid waste:
      (1)   Unseparated solid waste, which shall consist of solid waste of all
descriptions other than yard waste, including recyclable materials that have
not been segregated by the customer;
      (2)   (a)   Recyclable materials, which may include:
            1.   Aluminum cans;
            2.   Steel cans;
            3.   Tin-coated cans;
            4.   Bimetal cans;
            5.   Glass bottles and jars of all colors;
            6.   No. 1 plastic;
            7.   No. 2 plastic; and
            8.   Newspapers.
         (b)   Recyclable materials shall be separated by the customer from
other classes of solid waste and placed in a separately marked bin. Newspapers
shall be placed in paper bags or baled with twine. The village reserves the
right to expand the definition of recyclable materials due to changing market
conditions without affecting the validity of the license.
      (3)   Yard waste, which shall include leaves, grass clippings, wood
chips, twigs, and garden waste such as weeds and stalks, when segregated and
bagged in accordance with the regulations of the facility which accepts such
yard waste from the solid waste hauler.
   (B)   The licensee shall transport and dispose of unseparated solid waste in
the Sangamon Valley landfill, when accessible or by any other method permitted
by state and federal law.
   (C)   The licensee shall transport and dispose of recyclable materials by
selling or giving such materials to dealers in recyclable materials. Recyclable
materials shall be recycled and shall not be disposed of in a solid waste
landfill or other methods without the express approval of the Village Board.
Unauthorized disposal of recyclable material may result in the cancellation of
the waste haulers license and subject to fines as provided for in §
4-7-99.
   (D) The licensee shall transport yard waste to composting centers or other
facilities which accept yard waste only.
   (E)   Each licensee shall be responsible for handling the recyclable
materials and yard waste of its own customers; however, licensees may agree
among themselves to handle the recyclable materials and yard waste of another
licensee.
   (F)   The licensee shall comply with this chapter and all other ordinances
of the village and with state, county, and federal laws and regulations
pertaining to solid waste management.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-5 RATE STRUCTURES AND CUSTOMER CONTRACT.
   A license may set its own rates, and may contract with its customers,
subject only to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The licensee shall set volume-based rates for commercial and
industrial customers for collection of unseparated solid waste, and shall
dispose of recyclable materials from such customer free of charge. The licensee
may agree with such customers on any frequency of pickup of solid waste,
provided that all waste is picked up at least once per week. Because the needs
of commercial and industrial customers vary from customer to customer, the
licensee need not announce a rate of general applicability, and is free,
subject to state and federal law, to discriminate among commercial and
industrial customers in the matter of rates.
   (B)   The rates for residential customers shall be of general applicability,
and there shall be no discrimination among residential customers as to rates;
however, senior citizen discounts are permissible. The licensee may agree with
such customers on any frequency of pickup of solid waste, provided that all
waste is picked up at least once per week.
   (C)   Recyclable materials shall be picked up from residential customers
free of charge.
   (D)   Rates for disposal of yard waste shall be volume based.
   (E)   A licensee may change its rates from time to time in its discretion.
The licensee shall provide the village with a copy of any rate change for
residential customers at least 60 days in advance of the rate change and shall
inform each residential customer of the rate change in writing at least 30 days
in advance of its effective date. However, the first notification after passage
of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall require only a 30-day
notification. Notice to customers may, in the discretion of the licensee, be
made by an insert in the monthly bill. No rate change shall be effective unless
these notice provisions are complied with.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-6 UNREMARKABILITY OF RECYCLABLES.
   A licensee may relieve itself of the obligation to pick up and dispose of
any class of recyclable materials by submitting to the village proof of the
lack of a reasonable market for such recyclable material. If a licensee is not
required by the City of Springfield to collect and dispose of a class of
recyclables, such will constitute sufficient proof that there is a lack of a
reasonable market for such class.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-7 UNLICENSED WASTE COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation not licensed hereunder may collect or
transport solid waste within the corporate limits of the village. No person
other than a licensee hereunder may remove recyclable materials from any
premises located within the corporate limits of the village. This section shall
not be a limitation on the right of any benefit, nonprofit, religious,
charitable, or education organization to collect recyclable materials on the
premises of such organization, or on the right of any person to give recyclable
materials to such organizations or to sell or give his or her own recyclable
materials to a recyclable dealer.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-8 LICENSE DURATION; FEE; CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   The annual basic license fee shall be $50. A license shall be
effective from January 1 of any year through and including December 31.
   (B)   In addition to the basic license fee, each licensed waste hauler shall
pay to the village the sum of $0.50 per month per customer located within the
village limits. This fee may be passed on by the licensed waste hauler to the
consumer. All fees collected pursuant to this division (B) shall be segregated
in a special fund and used to defray the costs of the village recycling and
cleanup program. All such fees shall be paid to the village on or before the
tenth day of the month following the month in which they are collected.
   (C)   A license granted hereunder shall constitute a contract pursuant to 65
ILCS 5/11-19-1 for the duration of the license.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-9 RECORDS.
   The village shall design license application forms and shall maintain
records of all licenses granted and denied hereunder, as well as forms for
payment of the license fees pursuant to §
4-7-8.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Police Department, the Village President, and any trustee
designated by the Village President are hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 4-7-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a monetary fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Each and every day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (C)   The village may revoke the license of any licensee who fails to comply
with the conditions of licensure set forth in §
4-7-4. The village shall, before revoking a license, order a licensee to show
cause why the license should not be revoked, and shall specify the deficiencies
which the village believes exist. The licensee shall, within ten days of the
date of the notice, provide the village with written reasons and evidence why
the license should not be revoked. Within five days of receipt of such
evidence, the village shall render a decision, which may be appealed by the
licensee in the same manner as denial of licenses in accordance with §
4-7-3(B).
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-2-2010)
CHAPTER 8: BUILDING MOVERS
Section
   
4-8-1   License required
   
4-8-2   Application
   
4-8-3   Fee
   
4-8-4   Regulations
   
4-8-5   Inspections
   
4-8-6   Bond
   
4-8-7   Planking street
   
4-8-99   Penalty
§ 4-8-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of house moving, raising, or
shoring without having secured a license therefor. Application for such license
shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
4-8-99
§ 4-8-2 APPLICATION.
   Such application shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall
set forth the name of the applicant, address, names, and places of residence of
its officers, if any. Upon payment of license fee and compliance with the bond
provisions of the ordinance codified herein, the President shall issue or cause
to be issued a license authorizing such applicant to engage in, carry on the
business of moving houses or buildings from place to place in the village in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and in compliance with other
ordinances of the village until the expiration of the licenses so issued.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 4-8-3 FEE.
   The fees for such licenses shall be $100 for an annual license.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 4-8-4 REGULATIONS.
   Persons licensed under this chapter must comply with all the provisions
relating to the work being done and must pay the permit fee required for moving
buildings.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 4-8-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 4-8-6 BOND.
   Every licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall file with the
Clerk a bond in the sum of $5,000 with sureties to be approved by the President
and Board of Trustees of the village to indemnify the village for any loss,
damage, or expense occasioned by said licensee by any act or failure of the
licensee to comply with the ordinances of the village relating to the business
of house moving or moving houses.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 4-8-7 PLANKING STREET.
   The pavement of any or sidewalk on or along which any house is moved shall
be protected by two-inch wooden planks along the route.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 4-8-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any prevision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 103, passed 10-15-1963)
TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION, AND ENVIRONMENT
   Chapter
      
1.   WEEDS AND RUBBISH
      
2.   NUISANCE TREES AND BUSHES
      
3.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
4.   FLY-DUMPING
      
5.   OUTDOOR BURNING
      
6.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
7.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
8.   NOISE
      9.   OPEN CONTAINERS
CHAPTER 1: WEEDS AND RUBBISH
Section
   
5-1-1   Nuisance declared; prohibited acts
   
5-1-2   Abatement required
   
5-1-3   Cutting plants and weeds by village; lien provisions
   
5-1-99   Penalty
§ 5-1-1 NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The presence upon lands lying within the corporate limits of the village of
brush, weeds, obnoxious growth, filth, garbage, trash, and/or debris, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, is hereby declared to
be detrimental to public health and a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for anyone
to permit any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding eight inches anywhere in
the village.
(Ord. 22-08, passed 7-19-2022) Penalty, see §
5-1-99
§ 5-1-2 ABATEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person causing a public nuisance as set forth in §
5-1-1, and the owner, occupant, or lessee of land on which any nuisance exists,
are responsible for correcting the nuisance within five days of the receipt of
notice from the village of the violation. It is the ultimate responsibility of
the owner of the premises on which a public nuisance exists to correct the
violation.
   (B)   The person causing the public nuisance shall remove or cause to be
removed the item(s) causing the nuisance within five days of receipt of written
notice from the Village President or his or her designated official.
(Ord. 22-08, passed 7-19-2022) Penalty, see §
5-1-99
§ 5-1-3 CUTTING PLANTS AND WEEDS BY VILLAGE; LIEN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a lien is recorded pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7 after a nuisance
is cured by the village or by someone directed to cure a nuisance on behalf of
the village, the notice of lien for the costs and expenses incurred by the
village shall be recorded in the following manner: the village may file notice
of lien in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, which notice of lien
shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred, and shall
consist of a sworn statement setting forth:
      (1)   A description of the real property sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the costs and expenses incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when the costs and expenses were incurred by the
village.
   (B)   Upon payment of the costs and expenses after a notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village, and the release shall be sent
to the property owner for recording in the same manner as filing the notice of
lien.
(Ord. 22-08, passed 7-19-2022) Penalty, see §
5-1-99
§ 5-1-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event a person fails to correct any violation of this chapter
after notice as prescribed by §
5-1-2, the village may, in its discretion, remove or cause to be removed the
offensive material(s) to cure the nuisance. In addition to any other fines and
penalties prescribed by the village code, the offending person(s) shall be
responsible for reimbursing the village for its employee(s) time, at a rate of
$100 per hour for each employee, and/or any additional expenses the village
incurs in curing the nuisance or in causing the nuisance to be cured.
   (B)   The village may, in its discretion, seek any other remedy available in
law or equity to restrain or enjoin violations of this chapter.
   (C)   The village may also, in its discretion, seek reimbursement of
reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees incurred in curing the nuisance(s) and in
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, including any costs or fees incurred
in preparing a lien pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7, as described in this section
herein.
(Ord. 22-08, passed 7-19-2022)
CHAPTER 2: NUISANCE TREES AND BUSHES
Section
   
5-2-1   Definition
   
5-2-2   Nuisance trees and bushes prohibited and declared a nuisance
   
5-2-3   Notice to abate nuisance
   
5-2-4   Removal of nuisance trees or bushes by village
   
5-2-5   Lien
   
5-2-6   Charge for use of village equipment and personnel
   
5-2-7   Other remedies
   
5-2-99   Penalty
§ 5-2-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE TREE and NUISANCE BUSH. Include and are defined as:
      (1)   Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which
overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other public place in the village in such a
way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel;
      (2)   Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which by
reason of disease, age, wind damage, or any other reason, has become likely to
fall on or across any public place or way;
      (3)   Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which by
reason of disease, age, wind damage, or any other reason, has become likely to
fall on or across an abutting lot in such a way as to cause or threaten
personal injury or damage to buildings or personal property; and
      (4)   Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which has been
felled or damaged by storm or otherwise, such that the trunk, branches, or
limbs have been lying about on the ground for more than 14 calendar days
without having been removed, provided that if the damaged tree or bush has been
trimmed to remove damaged branches or limbs, and such branches and limbs have
been prepared and placed for disposal in an authorized manner, such tree or
bush does not fall within the definition.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
§ 5-2-2 NUISANCE TREES AND BUSHES PROHIBITED AND DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Nuisance trees and nuisance bushes, as that term is defined herein, are
hereby declared to be a nuisance pursuant to the village’s authority under 65
ILCS 5/11-60-2 and 65 ILCS 5/11-60-7. No owner of property within the corporate
limits of the village, and no person in control of property within the
corporate limits of the village, shall permit any nuisance trees or bushes to
be present on such property.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008) Penalty, see §
5-2-99
§ 5-2-3 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Village President, or any trustee so authorized by the
corporate authorities of the village becomes aware of the existence of a
nuisance tree or bush, he or she may order the abatement of the nuisance by
sending to the property owner as disclosed by the records of the County
Assessor, and to the occupant of the property, a notice substantially in the
following form.
VILLAGE OF GRANDVIEW, ILLINOIS
NOTICE OF NUISANCE TREE OR BUSH VIOLATION
   To:
                                                                                          
      Insert name(s) of property owners and occupants
   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that there is a nuisance tree or bush on the following
property owned or occupied or otherwise controlled by you within the corporate
limits of the Village of Grandview, in violation of Ordinance No. 2008-08, “an
ordinance regulating nuisance trees and bushes, providing for their removal and
implementing 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7.” The address of the property is
                                               , Grandview, Illinois.
   The definition of “NUISANCE TREE” or “NUISANCE BUSH” in Ordinance 2008-08 is
as follows.
   (a) Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which overhangs any
sidewalk, street, or other public place in the village in such a way as to
impede or interfere with traffic or travel.
   (b) Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which by reason of
disease, age, wind damage, or any other reason, has become likely to fall on or
across any public place or way.
   (c) Any tree or bush, or trunk, limb, or branch thereof, which by reason of
disease, age, wind damage, or any other reason, has become likely to fall on or
across an abutting lot in such a way as to cause or threaten personal injury or
damage to buildings or personal property.
   (d) Any tree or bush, or limb or branch thereof, which has been felled or
damaged by storm or otherwise, such that branches and limbs are have been lying
about on the ground for more than 14 calendar days, provided that if the
damaged tree or bush has been trimmed to remove damaged branches or limbs, and
such branches and limbs have been prepared and placed for disposal in an
authorized manner, such tree or bush does not fall within the definition.
   The nuisance condition is as follows: (insert narrative)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
   Check if appropriate:           Photographs of the nuisance condition are
attached.
   You are hereby ordered to remove such nuisance tree or bush, or abate the
condition giving rise to the nuisance, within ten calendar days of the date of
this notice.
   Ord. 2008-45 provides that any person violating its provisions is subject to
a fine of no less than $100 nor more than $750 for each day a violation is
allowed to continue, if the village must prosecute you for violating Ordinance
No. 2008-08, it will seek fines beginning from the date of this notice.
Ordinance No. 2008-08 also provides that if you fail to remove the nuisance,
the village may do so, or may hire someone to do so, and may place a lien on
the premises described in this notice if you fail to pay for the work. If the
village itself performs the work, it will charge $100 per hour for the work.
   This notice is dated this         day of                         , 20      
                                                    
   Signature
   (B)   The notice may be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
it may be personally delivered by the Police Department or by any person
authorized by state law to serve legal process.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
§ 5-2-4 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE TREES OR BUSHES BY VILLAGE.
   If within ten calendar days of mailing or ten days of actual delivery of the
notice set forth in §
5-2-3, the nuisance tree or bush has not been removed or otherwise abated, then
the Village President or a Village Trustee authorized by the corporate
authority may cause the nuisance tree or bushes to be removed, or the condition
causing the nuisance to be abated, and the entire expense thereof shall be
chargeable to both the person who owns and the person who controls such real
estate, to be collected by suit or otherwise, in addition to the penalty
prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
§ 5-2-5 LIEN.
   (A)   As provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7, the cost of removal or abatement of
a nuisance tree or bush is a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to
all other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens; provided that within 60
days after such cost and expense is incurred the village files a notice of lien
in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds. The notice shall consist of a
sworn statement setting out a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof, the amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred or payable for the service, and the date or dates when such cost and
expense was incurred by the village.
   (B)   After the lien is filed with the Recorder of Deeds, a notice shall be
personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent
the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year.
The notice shall be delivered or sent after the removal or abatement of the
nuisance tree or bush. The notice shall be in substantially the following form:
   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that pursuant to Ordinance No. 2008-08 of the Village of
Grandview, Illinois, and pursuant to a notice previously sent to you, the
Village of Grandview has incurred charges in the amount of $          to remove
nuisance trees or bushes from property owned by you, the address of which is
                                           .
   In accordance with said Ordinance and with 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7, a lien has
been filed in such amount against your property with the Recorder of Deeds of
Sangamon County, Illinois.
   (C)   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, including all
recording costs, the lien shall be released by the village or person in whose
name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of record by the
property owner.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
§ 5-2-6 CHARGE FOR USE OF VILLAGE EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   The village hereby establishes a charge, payable to the village, of $100 per
hour or any portion thereof for the use of village employees, equipment, and
fuel for removal of nuisance trees and bushes. The corporate authorities of the
village hereby find that said charge is fair and reasonable to recompense the
village for its expenses.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
§ 5-2-7 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to bringing an enforcement action seeking a penalty in
accordance with §
5-2-99, and in addition to any other remedy allowed by the Illinois Municipal
Code, the village may bring suit to foreclose this lien, and to sue the owner
or lessee of the real estate, in a civil action to recover the money due for
services rendered, plus all expenses and reasonable attorneys fees to be fixed
by the court. Any such judgment shall be enforced in accordance with law. In
addition to the charges due, the village is entitled to collect the costs of
filing notice of lien, foreclosing said lien and litigation costs, together
with all office and legal expense incurred in connection with the collection of
the amount due. The forms of notice contained in this chapter are not
mandatory, and the failure of the village to use the prescribed form shall not
by itself adversely affect the village’s right to a penalty or remedy.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
§ 5-2-99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
5-2-2 shall, upon conviction thereof, be liable for a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $750. Each day a violation continues after notice has been
mailed or actually delivered, whichever is later, in accordance with §
5-2-3, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-2-2008)
CHAPTER 3: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
5-3-1   Definitions
   
5-3-2   Duty of village residents regarding disposal and storage of garbage and
other rubbish
   
5-3-3   Garbage containers
   
5-3-4   Storage of garbage and other rubbish
   
5-3-5   Burning garbage or other rubbish
   
5-3-6   Placement of garbage containers
   
5-3-7   Leaf bags
   
5-3-8   Littering
   
5-3-9   Removal of limb and branches
   
5-3-10   Curbside recycling program
   
5-3-99   Penalty
§ 5-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Include the solid residue from outdoor cooking, recreational fires,
and authorized burning of landscape waste.
   BULKY WASTE. Furniture, box springs, mattresses, and other discarded
household items with weights or volumes greater than those allowed for
containers. It also shall mean television sets, kitchen stoves, clothes dryers,
clothes washers, furnaces, humidifiers, hot water heaters, trash compactors,
dishwashers, refrigerators, freezers, central air conditioners, window air
conditioners, dehumidifiers, and other appliances, metal sinks, metal counter
tops, and bathroom fixtures such as porcelain toilets, vanity sinks, bathtubs,
and all other related items.
   COLLECTION PLACE. The location where garbage, rubbish, and recyclables are
placed prior to scheduled collection. It shall be outside each residence or
dwelling at the street edge, curb, gutter or rear edge of the sidewalk or at a
properly constructed storage area acceptable to the waste disposal service and
is readily accessible the waste disposal service’s personnel; service for the
infirmed or disabled will be at the convenience of the resident and treated as
an exception.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair, or demolition operations; except that occasional
residential construction debris placed in a container for collection shall be
treated as rubbish.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle with a capacity of greater than 20 gallons
constructed of plastic, metal, or fiberglass having handles of adequate
strength for lifting and having a tight-fitting lid capable of preventing
entrance into the container by animals, and it shall also mean plastic bags,
which when full shall not exceed 40 pounds gross weight, which shall have
sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top,
and which shall be securely tied at the top and kept in a secure place away
from animals prior to scheduled collection by a waste disposal service.
CONTAINER shall also mean a recycling collection bins selected and furnished by
the waste disposal service, or other suitable receptacles agreeable to that
purpose.
   GARBAGE. Include all putrescible (or easily decomposable) wastes, including
vegetable and animal matter produced or resulting from the use and storage of
food for human consumption.
   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Tin cans, metal utensils, bottles, glass, crockery,
paper, boxes, rags, discarded clothing or footwear, and all domestic wastes and
similar refuse resulting from the regular operations of a household not classed
as garbage, ashes, bulky waste, or construction debris.
   LEAF BAGS. Heavy paper, closed biodegradable bags containing leaves, grass,
and appropriate-size garden and yard waste.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials that would otherwise become municipal waste,
including without limitation newspapers, glass, metal cans, aluminum cans, and
plastic items that are placed by a resident in a recycling container at
curbside and collected by the waste disposal service’s curbside recycling
program in order to eventually be separated or processed and returned to the
economic mainstream in the form of raw materials for new, reused, or
reconstituted products.
   REFUSE. Garbage, ashes, and household rubbish.
   WASTE DISPOSAL SERVICE. The person or entity authorized by owner, tenant, or
lessee of any private premises, or duly authorized under common law or by the
Village Board, to collect and remove garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulky waste, and
construction debris.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011)
§ 5-3-2 DUTY OF VILLAGE RESIDENTS REGARDING DISPOSAL AND STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND
OTHER RUBBISH.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village shall remove
from such premises or otherwise dispose of all refuse, bulky waste, and
construction debris of every description whatsoever at least once each week,
and shall keep such premises at all times free and clear of any accumulation of
refuse, bulky waste, and construction debris of every description whatsoever.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011)
§ 5-3-3 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village, upon which
shall accumulate any refuse, shall provide or cause to be provided, and shall
maintain clean and in good repair, adequate containers.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011)
§ 5-3-4 STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND OTHER RUBBISH.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in
the village to cause all refuse as defined in this chapter, to be deposited in
the containers provided for garbage: provided, however, that it shall not be
unlawful for any owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village to
dispose of any garbage, ashes, or household rubbish which may be produced, on
his or her own premises, when such disposal is accomplished in a manner which
does not create a nuisance or cause annoyance or discomfort to the inhabitants
of the village. And, while storing refuse, bulky waste, construction debris, or
recyclables prior to collection, the owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises
in the village shall maintain that such storage shall not create a fire hazard,
a breeding ground for rodents and vermin, or in any way endanger the safety and
welfare of any person.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011) Penalty, see §
5-3-99
§ 5-3-5 BURNING GARBAGE OR OTHER RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set fire to, or cause to be
burned, or cause to be set afire, any refuse or construction debris as defined
in this chapter at any place within the village.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011) Penalty, see §
5-3-99
§ 5-3-6 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All containers for refuse, ashes, and recyclables shall be placed
outside the residence in an accessible place and at ground level. Where there
is an alley accessible to the residence, such receptacles shall be placed
adjacent to the alley as close to the property lies as practicable.
   (B)   All containers for refuse and recyclables shall be placed by residents
at the collection place of the premises served not earlier than 24 hours prior
to contracted pick-up day.
   (C)   All empty containers must be removed from collection place sites
within 24 hours of set collection day.
   (D)   While in use during the week, and excluding the contracted pick-up
day, all containers must be kept behind the face-line of the individual
premises being served.
   (E)   No container shall be placed so as to constitute a nuisance to
adjacent property or to the occupants thereof.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011) Penalty, see §
5-3-99
§ 5-3-7 LEAF BAGS.
   (A)   Leaf bags may be placed curbside along public streets and on the
public parkway for pick-up by a waste disposal service.
   (B)   Owners, tenants, or lessees of any private premise in the village
shall be responsible for purchasing their own yard waste stickers for
individual use.
   (C)   All curbside leaf bags must display a yard waste sticker, as required
by waste disposal services for yard waste pick-up services.
   (D)   Leaf bags shall not be placed fewer than ten feet from any storm drain
inlet, nor shall they create a safety hazard for vehicles, bicyclists, or
pedestrians.
   (E)   Owners, tenants, or lessees of any private premise in the village
shall be responsible for all leaf bags placed curbside at their residences.
Leaf bags shall not be allowed to degrade into a condition unsuitable for pick-
up. Uncollected leaf bags shall not be allowed to remain curbside beyond a
normal yard waste pick-up cycle or period greater than two weeks.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011) Penalty, see §
5-3-99
§ 5-3-8 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to fall from any
vehicle in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley, park, or other public place in
the village, garbage or rubbish of any kind whatsoever.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011) Penalty, see §
5-3-99
§ 5-3-9 REMOVAL OF LIMB AND BRANCHES.
   The following rules shall govern pick-ups by the village of tree limbs and
branches.
   (A)   Limbs and branches will be picked up and removed on the first Monday
of each month beginning in April and ending in November. If the first Monday is
a holiday, pick-ups will be made on the first Tuesday.
   (B)   Only two categories of tree limbs and branches are eligible for pick-
up and removal by the village:
      (1)   Limbs or branches that have fallen from trees; and
      (2)   Limbs or branches that have been pruned as part of routine tree
maintenance.
   (C)   In no event shall the village pick up and remove:
      (1)   Limbs, branches, or logs resulting from tree removal; or
      (2)   Any limb or branch longer than six feet or more than four inches in
diameter.
   (D)   Limbs and branches will not be picked up unless:
      (1)   They are segregated from other yard or other waste (e.g., leaf
piles or grass clippings); and
      (2)   They are placed for pick-up in an orderly pile in a village ditch.
   (E)   The Street Department may refuse to pick up and remove any limbs,
branches, or other materials which it believes to be in violation of these
rules, subject to the right of appeal of the property owner to the Village
Board at the Village Board’s next regularly scheduled Board meting.
   (F)   The Street Department may refuse to pick up and remove a pile or
collection of limbs where any portion thereof is in violation of these rules.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 5-3-10 CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   (A)   A curbside recycling program is hereby created in the village. The
program shall begin on or after January 1, 1993. The program shall allow for
the pick-up of recyclable materials by one or more waste haulers. RECYCLABLE
MATERIALS include, but are not limited to, old newspaper, soft drink containers
made from high density polyethylene (HDPE), milk jugs made from polyethylene
terephthalate (PETE), bimetal food and beverage cans, aluminum, clear glass,
brown glass, and green glass. All recyclable materials shall be placed in bins
or kraft paper bags. Such materials shall be picked up at curbside, or if a
resident has paid the waste hauler for special service, at another location on
the resident’s premises. Participation by residents shall be promoted by free
distribution of one recycling bin to each residence; however, participation by
residents shall be voluntary, not mandatory.
   (B)   This curbside recycling program shall be supervised by the trustee who
regularly supervises health and safety matters. That trustee is empowered to
make rules, consistent with this chapter, for the orderly, safe, and sanitary
operation of the program. Such rules and any amendments shall be published in
pamphlet form from time to time.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out recyclable materials
for collection more than 24 hours before the expected time of collection.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the resident or an
employee of a waste hauler, to remove recyclable materials from that resident’s
recycling bin or other recycling container.
(Ord. 314, passed 2-9-1993) Penalty, see §
5-3-99
§ 5-3-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
5-3-1 to
5-3-8 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750,
and each day on which an offense is committed or allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
5-3-10(C) or (D) may be fined no less than $100 and no more than $500 per
offense. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 314, passed 2-9-1993; Ord. 11-10, passed 8-2-2011)
CHAPTER 4: FLY-DUMPING
Section
   
5-4-1   Definitions
   
5-4-2   Fly-dumping prohibited
   
5-4-3   Nuisance declared
   
5-4-4   Non-exclusivity
   
5-4-99   Penalty
§ 5-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Any construction or demolition
materials, scraps, or matter usually discarded during or after construction or
demolition of buildings, roads, and other structures.
   FLY-DUMPING. Dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, leaving,
or causing or permitting the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing,
discarding, or leaving, of garbage, refuse, ashes, construction, and demolition
debris, on any public lands or thoroughfare or at sites or locations which are
not authorized to accept such wastes, debris, or other materials, except by the
owner or lessee of such site or location.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food and wastes from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging construction material,
abandoned vehicles (as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code), motor vehicle
parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive
matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create a traffic
hazard, potentially infectious medical waste as defined in § 3.360 of the
Environmental Protection Act, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise disposed of
improperly.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding, noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral waste, and street rubbish, including, but not limited
to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch-basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles, but REFUSE does not mean earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes,
boilerhouse cinders, lumber, scraps, and shavings.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 5-4-2 FLY-DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   Fly-dumping is prohibited within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
5-4-99
§ 5-4-3 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Fly-dumping is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
5-4-99
§ 5-4-4 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   Prosecution for violation of this chapter shall not be the exclusive means
by which the village may address an offense of fly-dumping. The village may in
its discretion bring a proper action to abate or restrain a public nuisance,
and my pursue all other remedies available under law.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 5-4-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who engages in any act of fly-dumping shall
be fined $750 upon conviction for each offense, and shall in addition be liable
to the village for the actual cost of cleanup relating to each separate
offense.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-4-2011)
CHAPTER 5: OUTDOOR BURNING
Section
   
5-5-1   Definitions
   
5-5-2   Burning trash
   
5-5-3   Burning landscape waste
   
5-5-4   Recreational fires
   
5-5-5   Exceptions
   
5-5-6   Drought burn ban
   
5-5-7   Enforcement   
   
5-5-99   Penalty
§ 5-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DROUGHT BURNING BAN. A ban on all burning of landscape waste by proclamation
of the Village President during the existence of drought conditions.
   DROUGHT CONDITIONS. The existence within the village of drought conditions
of at least D2 intensity level (moderate severity) as published from time to
time on the National Drought Mitigation Center. http://droughtmonitor.unl.edu/.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Has the same definition as in the Environmental Protection
Act: all accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs, and
other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns, shrubbery,
vines, and trees.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A wood or charcoal fire continuously maintained during a
social gathering of two or more persons.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings and leaves, and excludes all other types of
landscape waste.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 5-5-2 BURNING TRASH.
   No person shall burn trash, rubbish, papers or garbage, general household
commercial waste, construction or demolition debris, or waste other than
landscape waste within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
5-5-99
§ 5-5-3 BURNING LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   (A)   The burning of landscape waste within the corporate limits of the
village is permitted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall burn landscape waste in a village ditch, or upon or
within two feet of the paved portion of any street, sidewalk, or public way.
   (C)   (1)   Landscape waste may be burned only on Wednesday through
Saturday, 9:00 a.m. to sunset, and only if:
         (a)   The wind speed is 15 mph or less;
         (b)   There is at least one person, age 16 or older, constantly
tending the fire;
         (c)   Excessive smoke is not caused thereby;
         (d)   The person tending the fire has ready access to a garden hose or
other water supply, or has other tools or equipment available for the use in
extinguishing such a fire; and
         (e)   There is no drought burning ban in effect.
      (2)   A person tending a landscape waste fire shall immediately
extinguish the fire if the fire, when started, met the standards of this
section, but conditions have changed such that the fire no longer meets the
standards of this section.
   (D)   No person shall burn landscape waste, or attempt to dispose of yard
waste under the yard waste pick-up program, unless such waste was generated by
vegetation located within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
5-5-99
§ 5-5-4 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (A)   Recreational fires are allowed within the corporate limits of the
village during the period of time between one-half hour before sunset and 2:00
a.m., and only if:
      (1)   The wind speed is 15 miles per hour or less;
      (2)   There are at least two persons, age 16 or older, constantly tending
the fire, and one of the persons is the owner or occupier of the land;
      (3)   Excessive smoke is not caused thereby;
      (4)   The fire is contained within a pit at least one foot in depth and
ringed with brick, cinder blocks, or rocks or a commercially purchased fire
pit;
      (5)   The person tending the fire has ready access to a garden hose or
other water supply, or has other tools or equipment available for the use in
extinguishing such a fire; and
      (6)   The fire is conducted entirely on private property at least ten
feet from any property line; and
      (7)   There is no drought burning ban in effect.
   (B)   A person tending a recreational fire shall immediately extinguish the
fire if the fire, when started, met the standards of this section, but
conditions have changed such that the fire no longer meets the standards of
this section.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
5-5-99
§ 5-5-5 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not prohibit or regulate outdoor grills, whether charcoal,
natural gas, or propane. This chapter does not prohibit or regulate fires in an
interior fireplace.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 5-5-6 DROUGHT BURN BAN.
   (A)   The Village President may, during the existence of drought conditions,
declare a drought burning ban by proclamation.
   (B)   In the event a drought burning ban is declared, the village shall use
best efforts to publicize the drought burning ban though the mass media and
through notification on village utility bills. A drought burning ban shall
continue in effect until the Village President issues a second proclamation
that the burning ban is rescinded.
   (C)   No person shall burn landscape waste or start or have a recreational
fire during the pendency of a drought burning ban.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
5-5-99
§ 5-5-7 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village Police Department is charged with the responsibility of
monitoring and enforcing this chapter. The village Police Department may order
the extinguishment of any fire, which, in the opinion of the officer on duty,
violates this chapter. All persons shall obey the order of the officer on duty.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 5-5-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §§
5-5-3(C) or
5-5-4 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine as follows:
         (a)   For the first offense, not less than $50 or more than $ 100;
         (b)   For a second offense, not less than $150 or more than $250; and
         (c)   For the third or subsequent offense, not less than $300 or more
than $750.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to an action brought by the village for a
violation of §§
5-5-3(C) or
5-5-4 based on the existence of a drought burning ban, that the offender lacked
actual knowledge that the ban was in effect, so long as the person promptly
obeys an order of a police officer to extinguish the fire.
   (C)   Any person violating §§
5-5-2,
5-5-3(B), or
5-5-3(D), or failing to obey the lawful order of a police officer in accordance
with §
5-5-6, shall upon conviction be subject to a fine of not less than $500 or more
than $750 for each offense. Each day a violation occurs is deemed a separate
offense.
   (D)   In addition to seeking penalties as set forth in divisions (B) and (C)
above, the village may seek any other remedies available at law and equity to
restrain or enjoin violations, which are hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 9-6-2011)
CHAPTER 6: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
5-6-1   Definition
   
5-6-2   Nuisance declared; abatement procedures
   
5-6-3   Dangerous building prohibited
   
5-6-99   Penalty
§ 5-6-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Includes:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause or condition which causes or aids or may cause or
aid in the spread of disease, or the harboring and spread of rodents, insects,
or other vermin, or garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials, or which causes or may cause injury to the health of
the occupants of it or of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or fall of any part of such
structure; and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and is frequented or may be frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons
who are not lawful occupants of such structure or poses an attractive nuisance
to children.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 5-6-2 NUISANCE DECLARED; ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. Any dangerous building in the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, the President and the
Board of Trustees of the village are empowered to demolish, repair, or enclose
or cause the demolition, repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings
or uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the territory of the village and
may remove or cause the removal of garbage, debris, and other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from those buildings.
   (B)   Notice. Whenever the President and Board of Trustees of the village is
of the opinion, based upon a viewing of the premises by the President, a
Trustee or any official of the village charged with enforcement of building or
zoning and an oral or written report to the President and Board of Trustees,
that any building or structure in the village is a dangerous building, they may
by resolution direct the Village Clerk to cause written notice to be served
upon the owner thereof and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified
mail, registered mail, or personal service. Where, upon diligent search, the
identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of the building, including the
lienholders of record, is not ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or
persons in whose name the real estate was last assessed is sufficient notice
under this section. Notice by certified or regular mail pursuant to this
section shall be accomplished if the village receives a return receipt from the
addressee or if the certified or regular mailing is returned unclaimed or
refused. Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition, that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it and that the
condition must be remedied at once. Such notice may be, but is not required to
be, in the following form:
   “To                                 (owner-occupant of the premises) of the
premises known and described as                                     .
   You are hereby notified that pursuant to Ordinance No. 06-04, “an ordinance
relating to dangerous buildings” your building located at the above-described
premises has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by                       .
   The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
   You have fifteen (15) days from the date of service of this notice (which,
in the case that this notice was mailed by certified or registered mail, is the
date the notice was mailed) to remedy this condition or demolish the building
immediately or the village will proceed to take legal action to do so.
   You may also be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
per day nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day for each day the
building has been or shall remain in dangerous condition pursuant to village
ordinance. In addition, the village may further avail itself of all of the
remedies set forth in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.”
   (C)   Unknown address of owner. If the owner of the premises concerned is
unknown or if his or her address is unknown, service of any notice provided for
in this chapter may be made by posting a copy thereof on the premises and by
publishing one time a copy thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village.
   (D)   Remedy of condition.
      (1)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith
within 15 days from the time when the notice is served upon such person by
personal service or by certified mail, the Zoning Administrator or other
officer of the village directed by the President and Board of Trustees may
proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building by filing a
lawsuit in the Circuit Court seeking any or all remedies available under 65
ILCS 5/11-31-3, including, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   An order authorizing action to be taken by the village with
respect to a building if the owner or owners of the building, including the
lienholders of record, after at least 15 days’ written notice by mail so to do,
have failed to put the building in a safe condition or to demolish it;
         (b)   A fine as set forth in §
5-6-99;
         (c)   An order requiring the owner or owners of record to demolish,
repair, or enclose the building or to remove garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from the building;
and/or
         (d)   A judgment against the owner or other person causing the
dangerous condition for the payment of the village’s costs and reasonable
attorneys fees in connection with the village’s enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to an action brought pursuant to this
chapter that the building is boarded up or otherwise enclosed, although the
court may order the defendant to have the building boarded up or otherwise
enclosed.
   (E)   Additional remedies. In addition to the actions authorized by this
chapter, the village officials may proceed under any and all of the provisions
of the Illinois Municipal Code, including 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, which authorizes
imposition of a lien when the village is compelled to take action, and 65 ILCS
5/11-31-2, which authorizes an injunction to require compliance with building,
fire, health, and safety standards.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 5-6-3 DANGEROUS BUILDING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village and it shall be unlawful for a record owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
a dangerous condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 5-2-2006) Penalty, see §
5-6-99
§ 5-6-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
5-6-3 shall, upon conviction, be punished by imposition of a fine of not less
than $50 and not more than $500 per offense. Every day a building shall be
maintained or permitted to exist in a dangerous condition shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 5-2-2006)
CHAPTER 7: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
5-7-1   Definitions
   
5-7-2   Inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles on public property
   
5-7-3   Inoperable motor vehicles on private property
   
5-7-4   Abandoned but not inoperable motor vehicles on private property
   
5-7-5   Other remedies
   
5-7-6   Parking of vehicles with expired registration stickers
   
5-7-99   Penalty
§ 5-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As defined in § 1401.05 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
ILCS 5/1-101.05, an ABANDONED VEHICLE is any vehicle in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition or any motor
vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and
is apparently deserted.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3, an INOPERABLE
MOTOR VEHICLE is any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven
days, the engine, wheels, tires, or other parts have been removed, or on which
the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, nor to any motor
vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, nor an operable
historic vehicle over 25 years of age, nor a motor vehicle on the premises
lawfully engaged in the wrecking and junking of motor vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in § 1-146 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, a MOTOR
VEHICLE means every vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles moved
solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs.
   PERSON. Any human being, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, public or private, within the corporate limits
within the village that is not a street or highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 5-7-2 INOPERABLE OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Inoperable and abandoned motor vehicles which are on public property, a
street, or a highway, are hereby declared a nuisance. They shall be towed or
otherwise dealt with by the Police Department in accordance with procedures set
forth in Chapter 4, Article II of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 4/
201 et seq., which is herein incorporated by reference, together with all
future amendments thereto.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 5-7-3 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Inoperable motor vehicles on private property are hereby declared a
nuisance.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer discovers an inoperable motor vehicle on
private property, the officer shall determine the owner of record of the
property, and if the vehicle has a license plate, the owner of the vehicle. The
officer shall attempt to determine the identity of persons occupying the
property if different from the owner of record. The officer shall cause a
notice, in substantially the form attached to the ordinance codified herein as
Exhibit “A”, to be mailed by certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal delivery to the owner of record of the property, and to all persons
known to the officer, after reasonable investigation, to occupy such property,
and also to the owner of the motor vehicle if the owner is known.
   (C)   Notice by certified mail pursuant to this section shall be
accomplished if the village receives a return receipt from the addressee or if
the certified or regular mailing is returned “unclaimed” or “refused”.
   (D)   In the event that a violation of §§
5-7-2 or
5-7-3 is not corrected within the time specified in the notice, or if there is
a hearing, within five days after the hearing, the Police Department may
proceed to tow and dispose of the inoperable motor vehicle in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Chapter 4, Article II of state’s Motor Vehicle
Code, 625 ILCS 4/201 et seq., which is herein incorporated by reference.
   (E)   Hearings conducted by the Chief of Police shall be informal and may
include, in the case of an allegedly inoperable vehicle, an inspection of the
vehicle and a (missing content) ...nstration that the vehicle is not
inoperable.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 5-7-4 ABANDONED BUT NOT INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Vehicles which are not inoperable, but which are abandoned in the sense of
not having been moved for seven consecutive days or more and being apparently
deserted, may be removed by the Police Department and otherwise dealt with in
accordance with Article II of Chapter 4 of the state’s Vehicle Code, but only
if:
   (A)   The owner of the property on which the vehicle was abandoned is
different from the owner of the vehicle;
   (B)   The owner of the property on which the vehicle was abandoned requests
the Police Department to take action; and
   (C)   If approved by the Chief of Police in his or her sole discretion.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 5-7-5 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to any other remedies, the corporate authorities may at any time
instruct the Village Attorney to file a lawsuit in the County Circuit Court,
seeking any or all remedies available in the Illinois Municipal Code respecting
abatement of nuisances. The corporate authorities may seek penalties in
accordance with §
5-7-99.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 5-7-6 PARKING OF VEHICLES WITH EXPIRED REGISTRATION STICKERS.
   No person may stop, park, or leave standing upon a public street, highway,
or roadway a vehicle upon which is displayed an Illinois registration plate or
plates or registration sticker after the termination of the registration period
for which the registration plate or sticker was issued or after the expiration
date set by §§ 3-314 or 3-314.1 of the state’s Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
5-7-99
§ 5-7-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of §§
5-7-2,
5-7-3, or
5-7-4 shall be fined not less than $250 and no more than $750, plus the cost to
the village of its attorney’s fees and shall be required by the court to make a
disposition on the abandoned, unclaimed, or inoperable vehicle. Each day a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set forth in this chapter and in Article
II of Chapter 4 of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, the village may bring a
common law nuisance action against a person who is responsible for a nuisance
as defined in this chapter, and in connection therewith, may seek all remedies
available in law or equity in connection with such an action, and shall be
entitled as part of the action to an award of its attorneys fees and costs.
   (C)   A person who violates §
5-7-6 shall be fined the sum of $25 for each violation. Each day a violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-6-2004)
CHAPTER 8: NOISE
Section
   
5-8-1   Public nuisance established
   
5-8-2   Radio, television sets, phonographs, stereo systems, and similar
devices use restricted
   
5-8-3   Sound amplifiers and loud speakers
   
5-8-4   Animals
   
5-8-5   Mufflers and motor vehicles
   
5-8-6   Construction operations
   
5-8-7   Lawn mowers and other landscape maintenance equipment
   
5-8-8   Vehicle maintenance activities
   
5-8-99   Penalty
§ 5-8-1 PUBLIC NUISANCE ESTABLISHED.
   It is hereby declared that the following noise activities shall be a public
nuisance and are therefore unlawful.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-2 RADIO, TELEVISION SETS, PHONOGRAPHS, STEREO SYSTEMS, AND SIMILAR
DEVICES USE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, or permit to be played
any radio receiving sets, musical instruments, television, phonographs, stereo
systems, sound amplifiers, loudspeakers, drums, or other machines or devices
for the production or reproduction of sound in such a manner as to cause to be
made or continued any unnecessary noise in such a manner as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and comfort of any reasonable person with normal sensitivity
residing within or bordering a residential area within the village.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-3 SOUND AMPLIFIERS AND LOUD SPEAKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, or permit to be
operated on private property or on the public way within any residential or
commercial district any sound amplifier equipment of loud speakers designed to
mechanically amplify the sound of the human voice, musical instruments, and
other sounds.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-4 ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or maintain, or permit the keeping of, upon any
premises owned, occupied, or controlled by such person, any animal or fowl
otherwise permitted to be kept which by any sound, cry, or behavior shall cause
annoyance or discomfort or otherwise disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of
any reasonable person of normal sensitivity within or bordering a residential
neighborhood within the village.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-5 MUFFLERS AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an automobile, truck,
motorcycle, boat, motor vehicle, or other power device which is not equipped
with an adequate muffler in constant operation and properly maintained to
prevent any unnecessary noise which shall cause annoyance or discomfort to a
reasonable person of normal sensitivity within or bordering a residential
neighborhood within the village.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-6 CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS.
   Noise resulting from construction operations being conducted prior to 7:00
a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and prior to 8:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
on weekends and holidays for which building permits have been issued, or for
which building permits are not required, or for noise resulting from
construction operations anytime day or night, weekday, or weekend and holiday
for which a building permit is required but has not been properly applied for,
or otherwise issued. However, at the discretion of the Director of Building and
Zoning, or his or her designee, provisions may be made on a case-by-case basis
specifically to accommodate roofing-related activities that must be conducted
outside these specified hours if weather conditions and temperatures are
forecasted by the National Weather Service to warrant such a special
consideration.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-7 LAWN MOWERS AND OTHER LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT.
   Noise resulting from lawn mowers and other landscape maintenance equipment
used prior to 7:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and prior to 8:00 a.m.
and after 9:00 p.m. on weekends and holidays.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-8 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   Noise resulting from vehicle maintenance activities being conducted in areas
zoned as residential areas prior to 7:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. on weekdays
and prior to 8:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. on weekends and holidays, during
which the vehicle motor is in operation at idle, or during which rapid
increases of engine rpm commonly referred to as “gunning the engine” is
required, or during which tools operated by pneumatic, electric, or other means
is required, except for emergencies, such as changing a flat tire or charging a
battery. Vehicle maintenance must never be performed on public streets, or
other public ways to include sidewalks, walkways, or trails. Nothing in this
section prevents maintenance on private vehicles after the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and prior to 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and after 9:00 p.m. and prior to 8:00 a.m.
on weekends and holidays that does not require engine operation or the use of
powered tools.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
5-8-99
§ 5-8-99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $100 for a first offense. For a second violation of this chapter within a
24-month-period, the mandatory minimum fine shall be $250. For a third or
subsequent violation of this chapter, the mandatory minimum fine shall be $500.
Each day during which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
punishable offense.
(Ord. 21-10, passed 7-20-2021)
CHAPTER 9: OPEN CONTAINERS
Section
   
5-9-1   Public nuisance
   
5-9-2   Open container on public way
 
   
5-9-99   Penalty
§ 5-9-1 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that the following activities shall be a public
nuisance and are therefore unlawful.
(Ord. 24-17, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 5-9-2 OPEN CONTAINER ON PUBLIC WAY.
   No person shall carry, possess, or consume any alcoholic liquor on any
public way or right- of-way, including but not limited to highways, streets,
alleys, or sidewalks, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken, while within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 24-17, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 5-9-99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $250.
(Ord. 24-17, passed 11-19-2024)
TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
3.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
4.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
5.   MINORS
      
6.   VANDALISM AND GRAFFITI
      
7.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-1-1   Department created; membership; appointments
   
6-1-2   Administrative control
   
6-1-3   Chief of Police
   
6-1-4   Auxiliary Police
   
6-1-5   Rules and regulations
   
6-1-6   Policy manual
§ 6-1-1 DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENTS.
   There is hereby created a police department for the Village which shall
consist of such personnel as may be provided by the Board of Trustees. The
President of the Board of Trustees or their designee shall be the supporting
authority for all personnel of said police department subject to the consent of
the Board of Trustees. As appointing authority, the President of the Board of
Trustees shall appoint a Chief of Police subject to approval by the Board of
Trustees, who shall maintain hiring and firing authority.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 6-1-2 ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL.
   The President of the Board of Trustees shall have administrative control
over the police department and shall appoint a Chief of Police in accordance
with Section 6-1-1 of this Chapter and in accordance with applicable state
statutes. The Chief of Police shall perform duties and have responsibilities as
described in this Chapter and as designated by the Village President and the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 6-1-3 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Office of Chief of Police. There is hereby created the Office of Chief
of Police who shall be the head of the Police Department. He or she shall be
appointed by the President with the consent of the Village Board. The Chief
shall serve at the discretion of the Village Board, and shall serve a minimum
12-month probationary period upon appointment as Chief. The salary of the Chief
shall be established by the Board of Trustees, which shall consider the
individual's experience.
   (B)   Qualifications. No person shall be eligible to hold the office of
Chief of Police unless he or she has knowledge of matters of public welfare,
investigation of crime and criminals, crime prevention, traffic control and
regulation, laws of the state, and enforcement of law, so as reasonably to
qualify them in such matters. Any applicant for Police Chief shall have at
least ten years of full-time service as a police officer.
   (C)   Duties. It shall be the duties of the Chief of Police to:
      (1)   Keep records and create monthly reports concerning the activities
of the Police Department to be presented to the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Have the custody, care and control of the public property of the
Police Department, including all firearms and other equipment and the books and
records of the Department;
      (3)   Devote such time to the municipal affairs and events of the Village
as the Board shall prescribe;
      (4)   Preserve the peace, order, safety and cleanliness of the Village;
      (5)   Execute and enforce all ordinances, police requirements and orders
of the Village Board and of the President, or their designee;
      (6)   Protect the rights of persons and property;
      (7)   Cause to be enforced all ordinances of the Village unless otherwise
provided;
      (8)   Take notice of all nuisances, and at all times render all necessary
assistance to other village officers, in the abatement thereof;
      (9)   Supervise and manage personnel that are assigned as police officers
within the police department and handle all personnel actions, including:
scheduling of personnel to ensure shift coverage, scheduling training,
scheduling vacations and leave time, disciplining police personnel as needed,
advertising vacancies, and assisting with the hiring of new officers; all of
which should be in conformance with all terms and conditions outlined in the
Village Ordinances, Grandview Lexipol Policies, and applicable State Laws;
      (10)   Maintain open line of communication with Village President and
Village Board;
      (11)   Study police problems and matters of public welfare and
administration as related to crime and law enforcement and make recommendations
thereon to the President and Village Board;
      (12)   Investigate, study and recommend traffic regulations, routing and
changes therein with a view to improving traffic conditions and lessening
congestion and improve safety in the streets and public places; investigate,
study, and recommend changes, updates, or new ordinances related to law
enforcement duties and public safety;
      (13)   Cause to be kept case files with all original and updated
information on the case in an organized manner;
      (14)   Cause to be detailed a sufficient number of the police force to
make, from time to time and as often as may be necessary, a thorough and
systematic examination of the Village, and to ascertain and report to the
proper authority for prosecution of all violations of this code or any
ordinance of the Village;
      (15)   Maintain the evidence room, all records pertaining to the evidence
room, and destroy, return, or keep any evidence dependent upon the disposition
of the case;
      (16)   To plan and execute community policing events to promote the
Grandview Police Department in a positive light with the community residents;
and
      (17)   Maintain a working rapport with businesses and citizens.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 6-1-4 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Village President may, with the advice and consent of
the Board, appoint auxiliary police in such number as the Board shall from time
to time deem necessary. Auxiliary police, when on duty, shall be conservators
of the peace and shall have the powers as specified in 65 ILCS 5/3.15-25. Such
auxiliary police shall not be members of the regular police department of the
Village and shall supplement members of the regular police department in the
performance of their normal duties. Identification symbols worn by auxiliary
police shall be different from those worn by the regular police force.
Auxiliary police shall be under the control of the Chief of Police in the
performance of their duties.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   All auxiliary police shall be residents of the Village. Prior to
appointment, fingerprints shall be taken, and no person convicted of a felony
or crime of moral turpitude shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer.
      (2)   Auxiliary police will not carry firearms except with the written
permission of the Chief of Police and while in uniform and in performance of
their duties. Before being permitted to carry a firearm however, an auxiliary
police officer must have the same course of training as required of peace
officers under section 2 of the Peace Officer Firearm Training Act.
      (3)   Auxiliary police, prior to entering upon any duties, shall receive
a course in training in the use of weapons and police procedures, as shall be
appropriate in the exercise of their duties.
   (C)   Duties. Auxiliary police members shall be only assigned to perform the
following duties:
      (1)   To aid in control of manmade or natural disasters, direct traffic
in the Village and aid in case of civil disorders as directed by the Police
Chief.
      (2)   In cases which render it impractical for members of the regular
police force to perform normal duties, the chief of police may assign auxiliary
police to such duties.
   (D)   Death in line of duty. The Line of Duty Compensation Act, as now or
hereafter amended shall be applicable to auxiliary police upon their death in
the line of duty described herein.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 6-1-5 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules or regulations as they
shall deem advisable. Such rules, when approved by the Board of Trustees, shall
be binding on members of the department. Such rules and regulations may cover,
besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations, and all other similar matters necessary
or desirable for the better efficiency of the department. Said rules and
regulations shall be posted.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 6-1-6 POLICY MANUAL.
   Policies for the Grandview Police Department will be written and updated
utilizing Lexipol by the Village President, Chief of Police, or other
individuals approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Emergency Management
   
6-2-1   Policy adopted
Local State of Emergency
   
6-2-15   Definitions
   
6-2-16   Declaration
   
6-2-17   Orders authorized
   
6-2-18   Duration
   
6-2-19   Notice
   
6-2-99   Penalty
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 6-2-1 POLICY ADOPTED.
   It shall be the public policy of this the village to adopt the NIMS concept
of emergency planning and unified command. It shall further be the policy of
the village to train public officials responsible for emergency management.
(Res. 10-03, passed 9-7-2010)
LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 6-2-15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property, or
vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill, or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary
action, public health emergencies, acts of domestic terrorism, other acts
defined as a DISASTER pursuant to § 4 of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/4), or other acts giving rise to a state of emergency
as contemplated by 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6.
   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A written declaration or proclamation of the
Village President, under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute a
disaster, describing the nature of the disaster, and declaring that a LOCAL
STATE OF EMERGENCY exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 6-2-16 DECLARATION.
   (A)   Whenever a disaster, as defined herein, exists, the Village President
is authorized to declare the existence of a local state of emergency. This
declaration must be filed with the Municipal Clerk as soon as practicable after
issuance.
   (B)   Such declaration(s) of a local state of emergency shall constitute a
declaration of a local disaster pursuant to 20 ILCS 3305/11; the effect of
which is to activate the emergency operations plan of the village and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance under that plan or any other
applicable plan.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 6-2-17 ORDERS AUTHORIZED.
   After the proclamation of a local state of emergency, the Village President
may, in the interest of public safety and welfare and to address issues
threatened by the emergency, take any or all of the following actions by
executive order during the state of emergency:
   (A)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the disaster;
   (B)   A general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village
or to the village as a whole, as the Village President deems reasonable and
advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night as the Village
President deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare;
   (C)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
   (D)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, approve new spending by the
village during the existence of the local state of emergency;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer; or
   (F)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 4-7-2020) Penalty, see §
6-2-99
§ 6-2-18 DURATION.
   The declaration of a local state of emergency shall be effective for the
earlier of a period of up to seven days or upon the adjournment of the first
regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the state of emergency is
declared, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Village President
or his or her interim emergency successor, indicating that the disaster no
longer exists. A declaration may be continued or renewed beyond seven days by
or with the consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 6-2-19 NOTICE.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Village Clerk shall
notify the news media situated within the village, and shall cause at least
four copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and
any curfew to be posted at the following places within the city: the City Hall,
the police station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 6-2-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the executive orders issued pursuant §§
6-2-15 through 6-2-19 shall be guilty of an offense against the village and
shall be punished as provided by village code.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 4-7-2020)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
6-3-1   Definitions
   
6-3-2   Exercise of certain powers
   
6-3-3   Keeping of certain animals prohibited
   
6-3-4   Inoculation of dogs; inoculation tag affixed to collars
   
6-3-5   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
6-3-6   Duration of inoculation
   
6-3-7   Exhibition of certificate on request
   
6-3-8   Restraint of dogs and other animals
   
6-3-9   Animals disturbing the peace
   
6-3-10   Keeping animals
   
6-3-11   Biting animals
   
6-3-12   Confinement; warning of dangerous animals
   
6-3-13   Killing or attacking animals
   
6-3-14   Cruelty to animals
   
6-3-15   Cock fighting; dog fighting
   
6-3-16   Dead animals
   
6-3-17   Injured animals; animals found dead on public ways
   
6-3-18   Interference with enforcement
   
6-3-19   Authority to impound animals and enter onto private property
   
6-3-20   Impoundment of dogs or other animals which have bitten persons
   
6-3-21   Notice to owners or keepers of impoundment and violation
   
6-3-22   Redemption of impounded animals
   
6-3-23   Dangerous dog determinations
   
6-3-24   Vicious dog determinations
   
6-3-25   Disposition of animals
   
6-3-26   Citations in ordinance violation cases
   
6-3-27   Prosecution of violations
   
6-3-28   Nuisances
   
6-3-29   Incorporation of Animal Control Act
   
6-3-99   Penalty
§ 6-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   All terms in this chapter, have the same meaning as in the Animal Control
Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq. The following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois and
appointed by Sangamon County Animal Control pursuant to the Animal Control Act.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, other than humans, which may be affected by
rabies, including dogs and cats.
   AT LARGE. Any animal not under restraint as defined herein.
   BITE. To seize with the teeth or jaws so that the person or animal seized
has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further includes contact of
saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   CAT. All members of the family Felidae.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Village Police Department.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape- proof building, house, or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
   COUNTY. Sangamon County, Illinois.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL PERSONNEL. Personnel who are employed by the county to
take up domestic animals and transport them to the County Pound, or take up
wild animals and dispose of them in accordance with the procedures of the
County Animal Control Department.
   COUNTY POUND. The animal pound operated by the County Animal Control
Department.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of
the owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by
its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal or a dog that, without
justification, bites a person and does not cause serious physical injury.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the State of
Illinois.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the enclosure. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a
residence, the dog must be locked. A vicious dog may be allowed to move about
freely within the entire residence if it is muzzled at all times.
   FIGHT. A prearranged conflict between or among two or more animals, but does
not include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public animal control facility in
the city, town, or county where the animal is found.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture of the canine anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Department.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap, or other such physical restraint having a
tensile strength of not less than 300 pounds.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, chickens, ducks,
turkeys, geese, and any other animals commonly recognized as livestock.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or a metal muzzle,
made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but will prevent the dog from biting any person or
animal.
   NIP. To pinch or squeeze with teeth with no breaking of skin or tissue.
   OWNER or KEEPER. A person having a right of property in an animal, who keeps
or harbors such animal, who cares for or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by such
person.
   POLICE ANIMAL. An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department’s or agency’s work.
   POLICE OFFICER. The Chief of Police of the village, or any police officer
employed by the village, or any police officer from another jurisdiction
operating in the village under a mutual aid agreement or under the direction of
the Chief of Police of the village.
   POUND or ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. Any facility approved by the Administrator
for the purpose of enforcing the Animal Control Act and used as a shelter for
seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted dogs or other animals.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE. The entranceway of a residence or other building closest to
the public street or sidewalk or one which would be reasonably perceived by the
public to be the entrance to the dwelling available for public use.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this Act.
   RESTRAINT. 
      (1)   An animal is under RESTRAINT if it is:
         (a)   Attached to a leash held by a responsible person;
         (b)   Attached to a structure or fixture in such a manner that it is
unable to reach beyond the limits of the owner’s or keeper’s property and is
unable to reach or molest service persons or casual visitors to the owner’s or
keeper’s property using the public entrance or persons placing mail in the
mailbox or delivering newspapers at the request of the owners;
         (c)   Enclosed in a fenced yard from which it is unable to escape
without assistance from a person;
         (d)   On the property of its owner or keeper authorized by the owner,
and under voice command; or
         (e)   Confined by a fence of sufficient height and security (which may
be an electronic invisible fence system) to prevent it from leaving the area so
encompassed.
      (2)   Herding of animals, and tethering of animals for grazing purposes
is not UNDER RESTRAINT as defined herein.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or plastic surgery.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person, and causes
serious physical injury or death, or any individual dog that has been found to
be a “dangerous dog” upon three separate occasions.
   WORKING DAY. Any day when the office or public entity referred to was open
for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-2 EXERCISE OF CERTAIN POWERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, police officers, and the Village President shall
have the exclusive power to request County Animal Control personnel to take up
and transport animals in accordance with this chapter and in accordance with
contractual arrangements with the county.
   (B)   Police officers on duty shall have the additional authority to take up
and temporarily detain vicious animals and animals running at large pending the
arrival of County Animal Control personnel.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-3 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping of livestock within the corporate limits of the village is
prohibited, except for the keeping of five or less total chickens or ducks per
lot. The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
   (B)   The keeping of undomesticated animals within the village is
prohibited.
   (C)   The keeping of more than five dogs and cats in the aggregate (e.g.,
five dogs and no cats, four dogs and one cat, three dogs and two cats, and the
like) on one zoning lot within the village is prohibited; provided, this
division (C) does not apply to litters of pups or kittens less than five months
of age.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011; Ord. 11-13, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 23-02, passed
2-21-2023) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-4 INOCULATION OF DOGS; INOCULATION TAG AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
which is four months of age or older shall cause such dog to be inoculated
against rabies.
   (B)   Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog at all times.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-5 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   (1)   The inoculation of dogs required by this chapter shall be
performed by a veterinarian, duly licensed to practice in this state or in the
state where the inoculation occurred.
      (2)   On performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to
the owner or keeper a certificate of such fact.
   (B)   (1)   Each owner or keeper is responsible for obtaining annually from
the County Clerk a metallic tag suitable for attaching to the collar of such
dog which tag shall also certify to the fact of inoculation against rabies.
      (2)   The tag shall be in such form as shall be determined by the County
Clerk.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-6 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
6-3-4 shall be effective until the expiration of a calendar year in which the
vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-7 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE ON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time on request of any member of the Police Department or
Animal Control Officer, the owner or keeper of any dog shall exhibit any
current, valid certificate required under the provisions of this code
certifying the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or kept by him or
her.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-8 RESTRAINT OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   Owners and keepers of dogs, cats, and other animals shall keep the
dogs, cats, and other animals under restraint at all times and shall not permit
such dogs and other animals to be at large. Any animal found running at large
contrary to provisions of this chapter may be apprehended and impounded.
   (B)   No owner of or person in control of a dog shall permit the dog to
damage any lawn, garden, or other private or public property, or to urinate or
defecate on public property or private property, without the consent of the
owner or possessor of the property. It shall be the duty of each owner or
person in control of a dog to remove any feces left by such dog and to dispose
of such feces in a sanitary manner. It shall also he or she the duty of each
owner or person in control of a dog when such dog is off the owner’s premises
to have in possession a device or equipment for the picking up and removal of
dog feces. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to a guide dog
accompanying a blind person or to a dog when used in police or rescue
activities by or with the permission of the village.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011; Ord. 16-03, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-9 ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   The owner or keeper an animal shall not suffer or permit the animal to
bark, howl, cry, or make other distressing or loud or unusual noise or to
disturb the peace or quiet of any place, neighborhood, family, or person in the
village.
   (B)   In addition to the general restrictions of division (A) above, for the
purpose of this section, an owner or keeper is in violation of this section if
he or she permits a dog to bark in a substantially continuous manner for a
period of more than 15 minutes, or who allows such animal to bark, howl or cry
for numerous periods of time, regardless of duration, so as to disturb the
quiet of the neighborhood or of particular neighbors.
   (C)   In case any animal shall repeatedly disturb the peace or quiet of any
place or neighborhood or become a nuisance as defined in this code, the Village
Police Department may contact Animal Control to remove the animal for placement
in the County Animal Pound.
   (D)   The owner may redeem the animal from the County Animal Pound pursuant
to §
6-3-22. Failure to redeem the animal will result in its disposition pursuant to
§
6-3-23.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-10 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   No person shall house or keep animals in any pen, stable, yard, confinement
structure, or any other place in such a manner that associated debris or odors
are unreasonably offensive to persons residing in the vicinity or passing along
any nearby street or alley, or constitute a hazard to the health of persons
residing nearby.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-11 BITING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of an animal shall suffer, permit, or fail to prevent an
animal from biting or attacking a person or another animal resulting in injury
to the person or animal attacked, provided that such an attack on a person who
is or reasonably appears to be in the commission of a criminal act is not
prohibited if the animal is acting in the defense of the owner or keeper of his
or her family or premises, and the animal remains on its premises. For purposes
of this section, it is not necessary that the person bitten or attacked be
arrested or convicted of a criminal offense.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-12 CONFINEMENT; WARNING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor within the village an animal other than
a dog known to be dangerous or vicious, unless such person shall keep such
animal safely and securely confined so as to protect from injury any child or
other person who may come on the premises in the vicinity where such animal may
be located. Adequate warning by sign, or otherwise, shall be given to all
persons coming on the premises in the vicinity of any such vicious or dangerous
animal. The confinement of vicious dogs and dangerous dogs is further subject
to the provisions of the Animal Control Act.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-13 KILLING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS.
   No person shall kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound by the use of
firearms, sling shot, bow and arrow, BB gun, air rifle, or any other dangerous
weapon, any animal within the village limits, provided that this section shall
not prohibit a person from defending himself or herself or another from attack
by an animal. This section does not prohibit the use of a weapon by a police
officer to destroy animals which are seriously injured to avoid unnecessary
suffering, or in self-defense or defense of others.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-14 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall commit acts of cruelty to animals. The following acts
shall be deemed to be examples of cruelty to animals and are not intended to be
a complete list of acts which may constitute cruelty:
      (1)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or killing any animal or causing or knowingly allowing
the same to be done;
      (2)   Cruelly working any old, maimed, injured, sick, or disabled animal
or causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done;
      (3)   Failing to provide any animal in one’s charge or custody, as owner
or keeper, with proper food, drink, shelter, air, sanitation, or medical care;
and/or
      (4)   Abandoning any animal without making provisions for its care and
feeding.
   (B)   Doctors or veterinary medicine, in the performance of their
profession, are not subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-15 COCK FIGHTING; DOG FIGHTING.
   No person shall use or keep animals or be in any way connected with the
management of any place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any
dogs, cocks, or other animals or permit such place to be kept or used on
premises owned or controlled by such persons.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-16 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal shall be responsible for the disposal
of such animal’s remains upon its death, from whatever cause, and regardless of
the location of the remains of such animals.
   (B)   Animal remains shall be disposed of:
      (1)   By burial beneath at least 18 inches of compacted soil on the
property of the animal’s owner or keeper, or any other location with the
express permission of the owner of the property;
      (2)   By or through the County Animal Pound;
      (3)   By or through a licensed veterinarian; or
      (4)   By action of the Police Department.
   (C)   The Police Department may issue a written notice to any owner or
keeper who has failed to properly dispose of the remains of an animal as
prescribed herein. Such person shall have 24 hours from receipt of such notice
to properly dispose of such remains. The notice shall be served on the violator
personally or by leaving such notice at this usual place of abode with some
person of the family, of the age of 13 years or upwards, and informing that
person of the contents thereof.
   (D)   The village may dispose of any animal’s remains without notice to the
owner or keeper when:
      (1)   Such remains are located on a public roadway;
      (2)   The remains are located on the property of a person other than the
owner or keeper; or
      (3)   Service of a notice on the owner or keeper is refused or not
readily possible within a short time.
   (E)   In any case where a disposal notice is required, in accordance with
division (C) above, on failure of a person served a notice to properly dispose
of such remains within the time allowed, the remains may be disposed of by
employee of the village and all costs of such removal shall be paid by the
owner or keeper of the dead animal to the village.
   (F)   A minimum charge of $50 for each hour or part of an hour spent by
police officers or other village employees in disposing of the remains shall be
levied against the owner or keeper when the village disposes of the remains.
The village may institute legal proceedings to collect any amount owing by the
owner or keeper providing that such suit is filed within two years of the
issuance of the notice or disposal of the remains if no notice is required.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-17 INJURED ANIMALS; ANIMALS FOUND DEAD ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Any animal discovered injured on a public way shall be impounded or
picked up by the County Animal Control personnel at the direction of a police
officer and processed in accordance with the procedures of the County Pound.
   (B)   When a domestic animal is discovered dead on a public way, the police
officer on duty shall attempt to ascertain its owner and shall request that the
owner dispose of the remains. If a wild animal is discovered dead on the public
way, or the officer cannot ascertain the owner of a dead domestic animal, the
officer shall notify the Street Department of the animal and the Street
Department shall dispose of the remains.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-18 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall, in any way, interfere with any person who is known to such
person to be or who identifies himself or herself to be and is in fact, a
village or county employee or other officer enforcing the provisions of this
chapter or engaged in catching or impounding any animal under the authority of
this chapter.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-19 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND ANIMALS AND ENTER ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of police officers to request the County Animal
Control personnel to take up and impound in the County Animal Pound any animal
found at large or any dog found in the village without inoculation tags
contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or statutes of the state.
   (B)   Police officers and County Animal Control personnel are authorized to
go on private property in order to enforce this chapter or to take up any
animal which is believed to be at large or take up any dog found without
required inoculation tags; however, such persons may not enter a private
dwelling house for this purpose without a valid warrant or the consent of the
occupant, nor shall such persons remove an animal believed to be at large
without reasonably attempting to ascertain whether the property on which the
animal is found is owned by the owner or the authorized keeper of the animal.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-20 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog, whether under restraint or not, which shall have bitten or
otherwise injured any persons so as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be
immediately taken by the Police Department or County Animal Control personnel,
impounded at the County Pound. The handling, disposition, and redemption of
such animals shall be in accordance with the county’s procedures and the Animal
Control Act.
   (B)   After having been notified that his or her animal has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be outside of his or her premises except
on a leash with a responsible adult until the procedures prescribed in this
section have been completed. An owner who has knowledge that his or her animal
has bitten or otherwise injured any person and knows that the Police Department
or County Animal Control Center is investigating a claim shall not under any
circumstances trade, sell, or give away the animal until such investigation is
complete.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-21 NOTICE TO OWNERS OR KEEPERS OF IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION.
   The Police Department shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owners or
keepers of animals impounded pursuant to this chapter, if known to them, of the
fact of impoundment and the procedures for redemption of the impounded animal.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-22 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except an
animal that may have bitten any person, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held
until it may be disposed of pursuant to the Animal Control Act in order to
afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to redeem the same. Any owner
or keeper desiring to redeem an impounded animal shall pay an impounding fee of
$125 per animal payable to the County Animal Control Center in the form of
cash, cashier’s check, or money order in addition to the fees and set forth in
division (B) below. Prior to disposition, animals shall be held for a minimum
of three calendar days if the owner is not known, and for a minimum of seven
calendar days if the owner is known, in order to give the owner an opportunity
to redeem the animal. Animals which have bitten persons are subject to an
impoundment of at least ten days in the County Pound.
   (B)   Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement with the village, the
county will remit the impounding fee to the village. Any owner or keeper
desiring to redeem an impounded animal shall, as a condition of release:
      (1)   Show proof of inoculation or pay the requisite deposit as set forth
in division (D) below; and
      (2)   Pay to County Animal Control Officer, or reimburse the village, for
all fees charged by the County Pound or to be charged by the County Pound for
responding to any and all calls with respect to the animal, picking up the
animal, and boarding the animal. The County Animal Control’s hourly charges and
boarding fees for impounded animals are established by the county and are
outside the village’s control.
   (C)   If the animal is in the County Pound, it may be released only upon the
owner’s showing of proof of inoculation, or by payment by the owner of the
County Pound’s charges for inoculation. If the owner cannot show proof of
inoculation, then in addition to all other charges, the owner shall pay the
County Animal Control the amount of money required for inoculation, which fee
is established by the county.
   (D)   The owner of an impounded animal shall pay the County Animal Control
Center directly for all impoundment fees, costs, and services rendered. In the
event that the village is billed for the fees, costs, and services rendered,
the village will be entitled to collect costs from the owner in the amount of
$80 per hour for each call with a minimum one hour charge and boarding fees for
impounded animals of $10 per day.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-23 DANGEROUS DOG DETERMINATIONS.
   Whenever the Police Department has reason to believe that a dog is
dangerous, it shall report the dog to County Animal Control for further
investigation and disposition in accordance with the Animal Control Act. Upon a
determination that a dog is dangerous, and unless and until such a
determination is overruled on administrative review, the owner thereof shall
fully comply with the directives of the Administrator accompanying the finding.
No person shall keep or maintain a dangerous dog or allow a dangerous dog to
leave such person’s premises in violation of the Animal Control Act.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-24 VICIOUS DOG DETERMINATIONS.
   Whenever the Police Department has reason to believe that a dog is vicious,
it shall report the dog to County Animal Control for a determination of
viciousness, or it may consult with the Village Board and Village Attorney
regarding the bringing of an action in the Circuit Court pursuant to § 15 of
the Animal Control Act. Upon a determination that a dog is vicious, and unless
and until such a determination is overruled on appeal, the owner thereof shall
fully comply with the directives of the Administrator or the Court accompanying
the finding. No person shall keep or maintain a vicious dog or allow a vicious
dog to leave such person’s premises or an enclosure mandated by the Animal
Control Act in violation of the Animal Control Act.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
6-3-99
§ 6-3-25 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   Any dog or other animal which has not been redeemed within the time
specified in §
6-3-22 shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the Director of
the County Animal Pound.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-26 CITATIONS IN ORDINANCE VIOLATION CASES.
   (A)   For violations of this chapter other than violations relating to
dangerous, vicious, and biting dogs and other animals, village police officers
are authorized in their discretion to issue citations. Citations shall be
issued on forms approved by the Chief of Police and shall be served personally
on the violator, left with a responsible family member of at least 16 years of
age at the home of the violator, or mailed to the residence of the violator.
   (B)   On receipt of any citation alleging violation of any section of this
chapter, the violator may pay one-half of the minimum fine provided in this
chapter at the Village Hall within ten working days of issuance of the
citation, and in such event, the village will not prosecute the ordinance
violation. After ten working days but before filing of an action with the
County Circuit Court, an alleged violator may avoid prosecution under this
chapter by paying the full minimum fine applicable to the violation at the
Village Hall.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-27 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The village may by its attorney file a complaint, whether in the
Circuit Court or in proceedings for administrative adjudications established in
the future, and prosecute any alleged violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Where a citation has been issued, after ten working days have
elapsed from the date of issuance of a citation; or
      (2)   Where no citation has been issued, at any time.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties set forth in this chapter, the village
may pursue any and all other remedies available under state law, including, but
not limited to, bringing actions to abate nuisances and seeking the destruction
of dangerous or vicious animals.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-28 NUISANCES.
   (A)   In addition to subjecting persons responsible therefor to the fines
and penalties set forth herein, the following acts in violation of this chapter
are hereby declared a nuisance:
      (1)   Keeping or harboring animals in violation of §§
6-3-3 and
6-3-10;
      (2)   Suffering or permitting any animal to disturb the peace as set
forth in §§
6-3-9 and
6-3-10;
      (3)   Failing to confine or warn of a dangerous a dog in violation of §
6-3-12;
      (4)   Keeping a place where cock fighting or dog fighting occurs in
violation of §
6-3-15; and
      (5)   The failure to take measures for the protection of the public as
ordered by County Animal Control, the Administrator, or a court in the case of
a dangerous or vicious dog.
   (B)   The village may, in addition to seeking remedies and fines allowed by
this chapter and the Animal Control Act, seek appropriate relief in the court
to restrain or compel the cessation of a nuisance as defined herein.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-29 INCORPORATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL ACT.
   The provisions of the Animal Control Act are herein incorporated by
reference. Any violation of the Animal Control Act is also a violation of this
chapter. In the event of a conflict between the Animal Control Act and this
chapter, the Animal Control Act shall apply.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 6-3-99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to have violated this chapter shall, in addition to
boarding costs and impoundment fees required herein, be fined:
   (A)   Seven hundred and fifty dollars for any violation of §§
6-3-11,
6-3-12,
6-3-18,
6-3-20, or
6-3-23 of this chapter, including any failure to comply with the directive of
the Administrator, County Animal Control, or the Court relating to vicious or
dangerous dogs; or
   (B)   Not less than $25 or more than $750 for any other violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011; Ord. 23-06, passed 8-15-2023)
CHAPTER 4: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
General Offenses
   
6-4-1   Disorderly conduct
   
6-4-2   Firearms and air guns
   
6-4-3   Storage of combustible liquids
   
6-4-4   Possession of cannabis or the synthetic form commonly known as K2
prohibited
   
6-4-5   Ordinance violation citations
Drug Paraphernalia
   
6-4-20   Prohibited
   
6-4-21   Definition
   
6-4-22   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
6-4-23   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
6-4-24   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia
   
6-4-25   Nuisance declared
   
6-4-99   Penalty
§ 6-4-1 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully disturb the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood or family by loud or unusual noises or by tumultuous
or offensive carriage, threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight
or fighting, or by displaying any deadly weapon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt or disturb any
congregation or assembly met for the purpose of religious worship or for any
lawful purpose by making any loud or unusual noise, or by rude or indecent
behavior, or by profane, obscene, or improper discourse or conduct.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act in such unreasonable
manner as to alarm or disturb another person and to provoke a breach of the
peace.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-19-1977) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-2 FIREARMS AND AIR GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or airguns or any gun that
discharges a missile in the village, provided that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge a firearm in the
performance of his or her duty; nor to any citizen to discharge a firearm when
lawfully defending his or her person or property.
(Ord. 75, passed 7-18-1955) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-3 STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   No storage tank of gasoline or other combustible liquids shall be
larger than 2,000 gallon capacity and the total of all tanks at one filling
station shall not exceed 6,000 gallons and all storage tanks shall be buried
underground.
   (B)   (1)   The maximum storage at one filling station shall be 12,000
gallons with no one tank to exceed 6,000 gallons. All tanks shall be buried
underground.
      (2)   All tanks must be installed and operated according to laws, rules,
and regulations relating to the storage, transportation, sale, and use of
gasoline and volatile oils, and the law prescribing the color and label for
gasoline or benzol receptacles, as revised May 17, 1956 by the state’s
Department of Public Safety, Division of Fire Prevention.
(Ord. 78, passed 5-7-1956; Ord. 82, passed 10-1-1956)
§ 6-4-4 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS OR THE SYNTHETIC FORM COMMONLY KNOWN AS K2
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   No person shall possess 30 grams or less of any substance
containing cannabis, or the synthetic form of cannabis, 1-pentyl-3-(1-napthoyl)
indole, commonly known as K2, except as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, effective January 1, 2020.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, CANNABIS includes marijuana,
hashish, and other substances which are identified as including any parts of
the plant cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of such plant, and any compound, manufacture, sale,
derivative, and all other cannabinoid derivatives, including its naturally
occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by
a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the
mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil, or cake made
from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant
which is incapable of germination.
   (B)   Relationship to state cannabis laws. The Police Department may in its
discretion refer charges of possession of cannabis to the state’s Attorney for
charges pursuant to state law instead of bringing charges pursuant to this
section, but no person shall be charged pursuant to this section and state law
for the same offense. Possession of cannabis in excess of 30 grams is not
subject to this section, but rather, shall be referred to the state’s Attorney
to be charged pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6-4-5 ORDINANCE VIOLATION CITATIONS.
   The village does hereby recognize that the Village Public Health and Safety
Trustee shall have the authority, in his or her discretion, to issue or cause
to be issued a notice concerning violation(s) or an ordinance violation
citation for ordinances pertaining to residential and business nuisances as
identified in the village’s code of ordinances.
(Res. 22-03, passed 6-1-2022)
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 6-4-20 PROHIBITED.
   The Village Board has been advised by the Police Department of an increase
in the possession of drug paraphernalia by individuals in the village. To
provide the Police Department with as many tools as possible to combat this
issue, the Village Board hereby prohibits the possession of drug paraphernalia
and sets penalties for violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   Means all equipment, products, and materials of any kind which are
used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of 720 ILCS
600/1 et seq. and 720 ILCS 570/100, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used, intended
for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Waterpipes;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held
in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (2)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of any owner or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq. and 720 ILCS 570/100;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq. and 720 ILCS 570/100; the innocence of an
owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct violation of 720
ILCS 600/l et seq. and 720 ILCS 570/100, shall not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 6-4-22 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of state law.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-23 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, or possess with intent to deliver,
drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of state law.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-24 ADVERTISEMENT OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-25 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any store, place, or premises from which or in which any item of drug
paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold, or delivered at retail
is declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to or in lieu of an action for
a penalty pursuant to this subchapter, the corporate authorities may bring an
action to enjoin the continuation of such a nuisance.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
6-4-99
§ 6-4-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
6-4-1 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of §
6-4-4 shall be as follows:
      (1)   For possession of two and one-half grams or less of cannabis: $250;
and
      (2)   For possession of more than two and one-half grams of cannabis, up
to and including 30 grams: $750.
   (D)   Each violation of §§
6-4-20 through
6-4-25 shall be separately punishable by a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-19-1977; Ord. 20-01, passed 3-3-2020; Ord. 22-05, passed 3-
15-2022)
CHAPTER 5: MINORS
Section
   
6-5-1   Curfew established
   
6-5-2   Minors under 14 years old
   
6-5-3   Parents responsibility
   
6-5-4   Exemption
   
6-5-99   Penalty
§ 6-5-1 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   It is unlawful for a person between the ages of 14 years and 18 years to be
present upon any public street, public place, or public right-of-way, unless
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or other adult approved in advance by
the parent or guardian at the following times:
   (A)   Between midnight Friday and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
   (B)   Between midnight Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
   (C)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
the following morning.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1988) Penalty, see §
6-5-99
§ 6-5-2 MINORS UNDER 14 YEARS OLD.
   It is unlawful for a person under the age of 14 years to be present upon any
public street, public place, or public right-of-way, unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian or other adult approved in advance by the parent or
guardian at the following times: between 9:30 p.m. on each day of the week and
6:00 a.m. the following morning.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1988) Penalty, see §
6-5-99
§ 6-5-3 PARENTS RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for a parent or legal guardian or other person responsible
for the temporary care or custody of a person under the age of 18 years to
knowingly permit such person to violate this chapter.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1988) Penalty, see §
6-5-99
§ 6-5-4 EXEMPTION.
   Persons under the age of 18 years are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter while engaged in the performance of lawful business, trade, or
occupation.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1988)
§ 6-5-99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1988)
CHAPTER 6: VANDALISM AND GRAFFITI
Section
Vandalism
   
6-6-1   Vandalism defined
   
6-6-2   Vandalism prohibited
   
6-6-3   Possession of paint or marker with intent to deface unlawful
   
6-6-4   Restitution; financial responsibility
Graffiti
   
6-6-15   Graffiti defined
   
6-6-16   Graffiti declared a nuisance
   
6-6-17   Placement of graffiti prohibited
   
6-6-18   Duty of property owners, occupants, and lessees with respect to
graffiti
   
6-6-99   Penalty
VANDALISM
§ 6-6-1 VANDALISM DEFINED.
   A person commits VANDALISM when he or she engages in the wilful or malicious
destruction, injury, disfigurement, or defacement of any public or private
property. This offense includes, but is not limited to, cutting, tearing,
breaking, marking, drawing, or painting when these actions are intended to or
have the effect of causing damage to property.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-5-1994)
§ 6-6-2 VANDALISM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit vandalism within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-5-1994) Penalty, see §
6-6-99
§ 6-6-3 POSSESSION OF PAINT OR MARKER WITH INTENT TO DEFACE UNLAWFUL.
   Absent express permission to the contrary by the owner or other person
having control thereof, it shall be unlawful for any persons to possess a spray
paint container, liquid paint, of any marker containing a fluid which is not
water soluble and has a point, brush, applicator, or other writing surface of
one-half inch or greater, in any public building or upon any public facility or
private property with intent to use the same to deface the said building,
facility, or property.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-5-1994) Penalty, see §
6-6-99
§ 6-6-4 RESTITUTION; FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   In lieu of or in addition to a fine or incarceration, any person found
guilty of violating this subchapter or any parent or legal guardian of any
unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian found in such
violation may be required to submit full restitution to the victim or victims
of such vandalism by monetary payment or property repairs.
   (B)   In the case of an unemancipated minor accused of violating this
subchapter and residing with a parent or legal guardian at the time of such
violation, the Village Police Department shall within three days notify such
parent or legal guardian in writing, either by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, that said minor has been accused of vandalism and
that said parent or legal guardian may be held financially responsible for any
fines or restitution resulting from such vandalism.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-5-1994)
GRAFFITI
§ 6-6-15 GRAFFITI DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting, or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted,
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property if not authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 6-6-16 GRAFFITI DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Graffiti is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 12-4-2012) Penalty, see
6-6-99
§ 6-6-17 PLACEMENT OF GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place graffiti on the property of another person.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 12-4-2012) Penalty, see §
6-6-99
§ 6-6-18 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS, OCCUPANTS, AND LESSEES WITH RESPECT TO
GRAFFITI.
   Owners, occupants, and lessees of all premises in the village shall have
remove all graffiti from any premises owned, occupied, leased, or otherwise
controlled by them, within 20 days receiving notice from the Village President
or Chief of Police to remove the graffiti, unless they provide satisfactory
evidence within such 20 days that advance permission was given for the
placement of the offending inscription, word, figure, painting, or other
defacement on the affected premises. Notice shall be given by certified mail.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 6-6-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
6-6-1 to
6-6-4, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of $500. Any such
offense may also be punished as a misdemeanor by incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a term of up to 30 days or by a
requirement to perform up to 1,000 hours of community service under the
procedures set forth in 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1 and 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1 (1992), as
amended, in a separate proceeding. All actions seeking the imposition of fines
only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the
state’s Code of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. (1992), as amended.
   (C)   (1)   A person violating §
6-6-17 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $750.
Each occasion of placing graffiti on the property of another is a separate
offense.
      (2)   A person failing to comply with §
6-6-18 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $50 per day and not more than
$250 per day for each day graffiti remains on property owned, occupied, or
controlled by such person after the 20-day period set forth in §
6-6-18.
      (3)   In addition any other remedy, either in the Code Hearing Department
or the Circuit Court, for violation of §§
6-6-15 to 6-6-18, the village may bring an appropriate action for injunction or
other order of the Court or Code Hearing Officer to abate a graffiti nuisance.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-5-1994; Ord. 12-14, passed 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 7: FIREWORKS
Section
   
6-7-1   Definitions
   
6-7-2   Firework usage
   
6-7-3   Display permits
   
6-7-99   Penalty
§ 6-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMITTED FIREWORKS. Novelty items including snakes or glow worms; smoke
devices; trick noisemakers known as “party poppers”, “booby traps”, “snappers”,
sparklers, and any other items specifically exempted from the definition of
“consumer fireworks” within 425 ILCS 35/1.
   PROHIBITED FIREWORKS. Handheld fireworks, bottle rockets, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, chasers, buzz bombs, helicopters,
missiles, pinwheels, planes, and any other “consumer fireworks” or “display
fireworks”, as those terms are defined by 425 ILCS 35/1.
(Ord. 21-13, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 6-7-2 FIREWORK USAGE.
   (A)   No person shall possess, store, use, or explode any prohibited
fireworks within the village’s jurisdiction without a valid fireworks display
permit issued by the village.
   (B)   A person may possess, store, use, or explode permitted fireworks
within the village’s jurisdiction without a valid fireworks display permit.
   (C)   Display permits shall only be issued for displays requested between
July 1 and July 7 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 21-13, passed 8-3-2021) Penalty, see §
6-7-99
§ 6-7-3 DISPLAY PERMITS.
   (A)   Application and issuance of permits. Applications for display permits
shall be submitted to the Police Department at least 15 days before the
requested display date. The Police Department shall issue permits in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and applicable state law, including, but
not limited to, the state’s Pyrotechnic Use Act.
   (B)   Application information. Applications shall be made on a form supplied
by the village and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   The requested display type;
      (3)   The requested display date(s); and
      (4)   The requested display site.
   (C)   Application documents. Applications for a permit shall be accompanied
by:
      (1)   A signed waiver by applicant releasing the village of liability and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and all claims
resulting from pyrotechnic usage or display;
      (2)   If different from applicant, a signed waiver by the registered
property owner of the requested display site releasing the village of liability
and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and all claims
resulting from pyrotechnic usage or display;
      (3)   Proof of proper authority to display and/or operate pyrotechnics
pursuant to the terms of 425 ILCS 35/2.1 and/or 425 ILCS 35/2.2;
      (4)   Proof of valid general liability insurance for a sum not less than
$1,000,000;
      (5)   Proof of completion of a fireworks safety training approved by the
office of the State Fire Marshal; and
      (6)   A non-refundable $25 application fee.
   (D)   Site inspection. Upon receipt and approval of the application and
accompanying documents, the Police Department shall coordinate an inspection of
the requested display site with the local fire department.
   (E)   Issuance. Upon approval of the site by the Police Department and local
fire department, a non-transferrable permit shall be issued by the Police
Department to the applicant.
(Ord. 21-13, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 6-7-99 PENALTY.
   A person charged with a violation of this chapter shall, on conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500 by
the village.
(Ord. 21-13, passed 8-3-2021)
TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
2.   ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES
      
3.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
      
4.   DRIVING RULES
      
5.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
6.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
7.   PEDESTRIANS
      
8.   VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
9.   TOWING OF VEHICLES FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-1-1   Definitions
   
7-1-2   Application to animals and bicycles
   
7-1-3   Exemptions from provisions
   
7-1-4   Unattended animals
   
7-1-5   Accidents
§ 7-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
   BICYCLES. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county, or municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam, or gravel.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the property
lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets cross.
   LANED ROADWAY. A street, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the function
thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his
vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other
vehicle.
   METAL TIRES. Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated
upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compresses air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the municipality, the county, any park
district, school district, the state, or the United States government.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle assigned and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   SAFETY ZONES. The portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle of the second division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization
solely for the transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place, whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public,
as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances whether singly or together while using any highway for the purpose
of travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no
part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter mile or
more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devises moving by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, provided that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
intersection.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-1-2 APPLICATION TO ANIMALS AND BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business district, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-1-3 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver when approaching shall slow
down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a red or stop sign
or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   (B)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the Act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement and parking of
vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in
installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street pavements.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-1-4 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-1-5 ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person, or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage,
shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and give
his or her true name and residence to the injured person or any other person
requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of the
property damaged, and to a police officer, if one is present. A report of each
such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it to
the Chief of Police within 24 hours after the accident.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES
Section
   
7-2-1   Obedience to police
   
7-2-2   Scene of fire
   
7-2-3   Tickets
   
7-2-4   Traffic violation notices to be furnished to police
   
7-2-5   When and how traffic violation notices issued
   
7-2-6   Notations made by police upon issuance of notice
   
7-2-7   Identification of officer issuing notice; filing of duplicated notice
   
7-2-8   Impounding illegally parked vehicles
   
7-2-9   What constitutes pound
   
7-2-10   Removal from impoundment on payment of fees and costs
   
7-2-11   Effect of transfer of vehicle at time of seizure
   
7-2-12   Sale of vehicle after seizure
   
7-2-13   Registered owner responsible for illegal parking
   
7-2-14   Additional remedies
   
7-2-15   Payment to avoid prosecution; particular offenses
   
7-2-16   Receipt for payments; disposition of moneys received
   
7-2-17   Fines on failure to avoid prosecution
   
7-2-18   Commitment for failure to pay fine and costs
   
7-2-19   Arrests
§ 7-2-1 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, and special police assigned to traffic
duty, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience
may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer. Except
in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful or any person not authorized by law
to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-2-2 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-2-3 TICKETS.
   (A)   For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving,
police officers, after asking note of the license number of the vehicle (and
the name of the offender where possible), may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases.
   (B)   Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the
offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-2-4 TRAFFIC VIOLATION NOTICES TO BE FURNISHED TO POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall cause traffic violation notices to be printed in
duplicate, which shall be numbered serially and shall be issued in pads to
members of the Police Department who shall severally execute receipts therefor.
Each police officer shall be accountable for the traffic violation notices
issued to him or her.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-5 WHEN AND HOW TRAFFIC VIOLATION NOTICES ISSUED.
   (A)   Unless a traffic violator is forthwith personally taken into custody
for court prosecution, or unless prosecution by court complaint is to be
forthwith instituted against such traffic violator, a traffic violation notice
shall be issued by a police officer for every vehicle parked, stopped,
permitted to stand, equipped, used, driven, or operated in violation of this
chapter, and for every pedestrian who violates the provision of this chapter.
Any such notice for a pedestrian’s violation shall be delivered to the
pedestrian.
   (B)   In case of a traffic violation involving a vehicle, if a police
officer is able to find the driver or other person in charge thereof without
leaving the immediate vicinity of such vehicle, such traffic violation notice
shall be delivered to such person, but if the officer is unable to find the
person driving or in charge of such vehicle in the immediate vicinity thereof,
he or she shall fasten such traffic violation notice upon the windshield, side
window, or cab of such vehicle in a place where the same is clearly visible to
a person entering or driving such vehicle.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-6 NOTATIONS MADE BY POLICE UPON ISSUANCE OF NOTICE.
   Every police officer shall indicate on each traffic violation notice issued
by him or her the time and location and type of violation for which such
traffic violation notice is issued, the type of vehicle, the state license
number of such vehicle and, if known, the name and address and operator’s
license number of the person to whom such license was issued or was responsible
for the violation in question, and such other information as such officer may
deem to be desirable.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-7 IDENTIFICATION OF OFFICER ISSUING NOTICE; FILING OF DUPLICATED NOTICE.
    Every police officer issuing a traffic violation notice shall identify
himself or herself on such notice as the officer issuing the same and shall
retain and deliver to his or her superior officer in the Police Department, or
to such other person as may be designated by the Chief of Police a duplicate of
such traffic violation notice.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-8 IMPOUNDING ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   A vehicle parked or occupying any portion of any street or alley in
violation of the terms of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance
which shall be abated by any police officer by impounding such vehicle, either
by placing a traffic violation notice thereon which shall indicate the nature
of the violation or by placing such notice thereon and removing and conveying
such vehicle to a vehicle pound.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-9 WHAT CONSTITUTES POUND.
   A vehicle pound is hereby declared to be any suitable place designated by
the Police Department as a vehicle pound.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-10 REMOVAL FROM IMPOUNDMENT ON PAYMENT OF FEES AND COSTS.
   The owner or authorized operator of such impounded vehicle may have the
vehicle removed from the impoundment by paying the penalties imposed by this
chapter for such violation as an impounding fee plus all costs and expenses
that have been incurred for the towage and storage charges which have accrued
against such vehicle during the time of his or her ownership thereof.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-11 EFFECT OF TRANSFER OF VEHICLE AT TIME OF SEIZURE.
   If, at the time of seizure, a vehicle has been sold to a bona fide
purchaser, and transfer of title has been duly made, such new owner may have
car released forthwith by showing his or her new certificate of title to the
proper officers.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-12 SALE OF VEHICLE AFTER SEIZURE.
   Any vehicle impounded may, after one month from date of seizure, be sold by
the authority of the Village Board of Trustees either at a private or public
sale, to the highest bidder, after first giving the owner of the vehicle as is
shown to be in the office of the Secretary of State of the state in which the
vehicle is licensed, on the day of seizure, a notice of seizure and proposed
sale, in writing, delivered in person or sent by certified mail addressed to
such person at the owner’s place of business or residence as shown in the
Secretary of State’s office.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-13 REGISTERED OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In all cases of parking violations, the registered owner of the vehicle at
the time of the violation, as well as the vehicle itself and the actual
operator thereof, shall be presumed to be a violator.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-14 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In all cases of parking violations, either the registered owner or the
operator of such vehicle may be proceeded against by complaint in the Circuit
Court, which shall be in addition to any other remedy provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-15 PAYMENT TO AVOID PROSECUTION; PARTICULAR OFFENSES.
   The owner or driver of any vehicle or any pedestrian who is issued a traffic
violation notice for violating any of the provisions of this chapter may avoid
prosecution for violating this chapter by paying within seven days of the time
of the issuance of such notice of traffic violation to such officer or other
person as may be designated by the Chief of Police or the Board of Trustees the
sum of $1 for any pedestrian violation, the sum of $1 for all overtime parking
offenses, the sum of $5 for parking in a restricted zone established under the
provisions of the parking and traffic ordinance; the sum of $5 for double
parking, the sum of $2 for all other parking offenses, and by surrendering to
such police officer or designated person the traffic violation notice delivered
to him or her or placed upon such vehicle, after indicating thereon his or her
name, street address, and city of residence. If such owner or driver or
pedestrian fails to pay an amount designated in the preceding sentence within
seven days of such violation, he or she may avoid prosecution for violating
this chapter only by paying double the amount specified above for his or her
violation before a complaint is filed.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-16 RECEIPT FOR PAYMENTS; DISPOSITION OF MONEYS RECEIVED.
   Any police officer or employee designated by the Chief of Police or
Commissioner of Police who shall receive the payment of any sum of money by a
violator charged with violating this chapter shall issue to such person a
receipt therefor, bearing his or her signature and the date of payment. A
duplicate receipt, together with the money paid to such officer or other
designated person, shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer and shall be
credited to the corporate fund.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-17 FINES ON FAILURE TO AVOID PROSECUTION.
   The owner or driver of any vehicle who shall fail to pay the sum provided by
this chapter to avoid prosecution for his or her offense when a traffic
violation notice has been issued, shall be prosecuted and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5 for any pedestrian
violation; not less than $5 for overtime parking; not less than $8 for all
other parking offenses, for defective equipment offenses, and for the offense
of unnecessary horn blowing; and in no cases more than $200 for a single
offense.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-18 COMMITMENT FOR FAILURE TO PAY FINE AND COSTS.
   Any person upon whom a fine or penalty may be imposed by reason of the
violation of any provision of this chapter and who shall fail or refuse to pay
the same, together with costs, or any part thereof, upon order of the court
before whom conviction is had, may be committed to the county jail until such
fine or penalty and costs are fully paid; provided, that such imprisonment
shall not be less than one day nor more than six months. Every person so
committed to the county jail shall be required to work for the village at such
labor as his or her strength will permit, within or without such county prison,
not exceeding ten hours in any one day. For such work such person shall be
allowed $5 per day for each day’s work to be applied on account of such fine or
penalty and costs.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-2-19 ARRESTS.
   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by law.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
CHAPTER 3: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
Section
   
7-3-1   Obedience to signs and signals
   
7-3-2   Traffic-control signal legend
   
7-3-3   Flashing signals
   
7-3-4   Land control signals
   
7-3-5   Pedestrian control signals
   
7-3-6   Unauthorized signs, signals, and markings
   
7-3-7   Interference with signs or signals
§ 7-3-1 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
Mayor by and with the advise and consent of the Council, or in accordance with
the laws of the state, excepting on direction of a police officer. All signs
and signals established by direction of the governing body shall conform to the
State Manual of Uniform Traffic- Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-3-2 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution”, or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights
shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn, but
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow or “Caution” when shown with or following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting across
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line shall remain standing until Green or “Go” is shown
alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall not
interfere with other traffic or endanger pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Yellow when shown with the red signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal shall not enter the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection nor proceed beyond such other points as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line while this signal is displayed, but is
advised that another signal indication which will permit a traffic movement is
about to be displayed.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interference with any vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Yellow when shown alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal is warned
that either a red or flashing red signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter, and such traffic will be required to obey the ensuing red or
flashing red signal, as the case may be.
   (G)   Green arrow alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may enter the
intersection only to make the movement or movements indicated by the arrows,
but shall not interfere with other traffic or endanger pedestrians lawfully
within a crosswalk. This signal will normally be used only at intersections
where one-way street operation is involved.
   (H)   Application. In the event an official traffic-control signal or
flashing red signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an
intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to
provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall
be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made
at the signal.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-3-3 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lane is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow light is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-3-4 LAND CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meaning.
   (A)   Opaque arrow on green, green arrow on opaque background, or green
alone. Drivers of vehicles facing such signals are permitted to use the lane or
lanes over which the signal is displayed providing that no intersection
traffic-control signal gives a stop indication affecting the lane or lanes
involved.
   (B)   Opaque “X” on red, red “X” on opaque background, or red alone. Drivers
of vehicles facing such signals are prohibited from using the lane over which
the signal is displayed.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-3-5 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “WALK”, or
“WAIT” or “DON’T WALK” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the driver
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait or don’t walk. So pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his
or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the “WAIT” or “DON’T WALK” signal is showing.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-3-6 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic- control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any
person place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway any other
sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal, and
no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon
any highway any traffic or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be
removed by any police officer.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-3-7 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful or any person to deface, injure, move, or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
CHAPTER 4: DRIVING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
7-4-1   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
7-4-2   Emergency vehicles
   
7-4-3   Through streets; one-way streets and alleys; stop streets
   
7-4-4   Right-of-way
   
7-4-5   Speed restrictions
   
7-4-6   Drive on right
   
7-4-7   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
7-4-8   Overtaking, passing vehicles
   
7-4-9   Driving on one-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
7-4-10   Turning movements
   
7-4-11   Driver signals
   
7-4-12   Railroad crossings
   
7-4-13   Truck traffic
   
7-4-14   Operation of vehicles on approach of school bus
Driving Restrictions
   
7-4-25   Driving from alleys, driveways, and garages
   
7-4-26   Driving on sidewalks, in safety zones
   
7-4-27   Backing vehicles
   
7-4-28   Restricted access roadways
   
7-4-29   Driving unlicensed, self-propelled vehicles
   
7-4-30   Starting parked vehicles
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
7-4-45   Processions
   
7-4-46   Riding on bicycles and motorcycles
   
7-4-47   Clinging to vehicles
   
7-4-48   Toy vehicles
   
7-4-49   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
7-4-50   Reckless, careless driving
   
7-4-51   Driving under the influence
   
7-4-52   Unattended vehicles
   
7-4-53   Complaints about unsafe driving
   
7-4-54   Driving on one wheel
   
7-4-55   Disturbing peace and quiet
   
7-4-56   All-terrain vehicles
   
7-4-99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7-4-1 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-2 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Fire Department vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm,
closer than one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
      (3)   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the
Fire Marshal or the assistant in command.
   (B)   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle,
when the driver is giving audible sign by siren, or bell, the driver of every
other vehicle shall yield the right-of-tray and shall immediately drive to a
position parallel to, and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb
of the highway, clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such
position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-3 THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Through streets. The streets and parts of streets of the city
designated by ordinance as through streets are hereby declared to be through
streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer or a traffic-control signal.
   (B)   One-way streets or alleys. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
on any streets or alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance,
in any direction other than that so designated.
   (C)   Stop streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a
stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to
ordinance, at one or more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously,
yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty,
in which event the directions of the police officer shall be complied with.
   (D)   Posting; signs. The Chief of the Police Department shall post or cause
to be posted suitable signs for all through streets, one-way streets or alleys
and stop intersections.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-4 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Right-of-way. Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a
vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection from a different highway; and when two
vehicles entering an intersection from different highways at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   Vehicle turning left. The driver of a vehicle within an intersection
intending to turn to the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so
close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so
yielded and having given a signal when and as required, may make such left turn
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left
turn.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-4-5 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   The speed limit for all vehicles (as that term is defined in the state’s
Vehicle Code) within the corporate limits of the village shall be 20 mph to
ensure the safety of its residents, and due to the condition of the streets,
except:
   (A)   On Albany Street, North Grand, and Wolf Street, where the speed limit
shall be 30 mph; and
   (B)   In an alley, where the speed limit shall be 15 mph.
(Ord. 22-04, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-6 DRIVE ON RIGHT.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
   (B)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon;
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic; or
   (E)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the wider
shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other vehicle.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-4-7 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into three or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all other consistent
herewith shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic
within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
centerline is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction that the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-4-8 OVERTAKING, PASSING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Passing vehicles. Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite
directions shall pass each other to the right and upon roadways having width
for not more than one line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give
to the other at least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as
near as possible.
   (B)   Overtaking vehicles. The following rules shall govern the overtaking
and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to these
limitations, exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated;
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaking vehicle; and
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   Overtaking vehicles on the right.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four or more lines of moving traffic when such movement
can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon the
shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right on a one-way street, or on any street on which traffic is restricted
to one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstruction and of
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
   (D)   Limitations on overtaking on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
      (2)   No vehicle shall in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; or
         (c)   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the
sign manual adopted by the state’s Department of Public Works and Buildings.
      (3)   The limitations in divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)(b) above shall
not apply upon a one-way street, or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each-direction when
such movement can be made with safety.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-9 DRIVING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and sign-posted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven on
the right of such island.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-4-10 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersection.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall
do so as follows:
         (a)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be
made as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, or as
indicated by traffic markers or signs;
         (b)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered, whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection,
or as indicated by traffic markers or signs; and
         (c)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction
on one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left
at any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left
hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of
such vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable in the left lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered, or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway.
   (B)   Turning on the crest of a hill. No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or
near the crest of a grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within 500 feet.
   (C)   Limitations on turning around. It shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
unless such movement can be made in safety and without backing into traffic or
otherwise interfering with traffic.
   (D)   U-turn. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a
“U” turn at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. Such
prohibition shall be indicated by appropriate signs.
   (E)   No left tun. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
turn left at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. Such
prohibition shall be indicated by appropriate signs.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-11 DRIVER SIGNALS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop, or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
      (2)   A signal or intention to turn right or left shall be given during
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible, both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a
lamp or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-12 RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing, when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade
crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagger or automatic signal
warnings of the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not less
than ten feet from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall listen and look in
both directions along such track from which a train might come, before
proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided, that no such stop
need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a traffic-control
signal directs traffic to proceed.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-4-13 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate a
truck or other commercial vehicle upon any street within the village which
weighs in excess of 15,000 pounds per axle, including any load. Any truck or
other commercial vehicle traveling to or from a pick-up or delivery at a site
within the village is exempt from the weight limit set forth above.
   (B)   Either the owner or the driver of a truck or other commercial vehicle
operated in violation of this section may be prosecuted for such violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of any violation of this
section shall be fined according to the same schedule found at § 15-113 of the
state’s Vehicle Code (Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 95-1/2, Par. 15-113), as amended.
   (D)   Signs conforming to the requirements in the state’s Manual on Uniform
Traffic-control Devices for Streets and Highways, giving notice of the
foregoing weight limitations, shall be posted at all entrances to the village.
(Ord. 248, passed 5-13-1986; Ord. passed 9-5-2006) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
Statutory reference:
   Wheel and axle loads and gross weights, see § 15-111 of the state’s Vehicle
Code
§ 7-4-14 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF SCHOOL BUS.
   The driver of a vehicle on any street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils; provided that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of which
the roadway for traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip
of ground at least four feet wide which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicle
traffic, need not stop his or her vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus
which is on the opposite roadway.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
DRIVING RESTRICTIONS
§ 7-4-25 DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS, AND GARAGES.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in
driving upon said sidewalk or across such lines.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-4-26 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS, IN SAFETY ZONES.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-27 BACKING VEHICLES.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-28 RESTRICTED ACCESS ROADWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on to or from any controlled access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-29 DRIVING UNLICENSED, SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a go-cart, motor bike, or
other such unlicensed motor vehicle which is self propelled upon the sidewalks
or streets of the village.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-30 STARTING PARKED VEHICLES.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 7-4-45 PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Driving through funeral or other procession. No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated as required in this chapter.
   (B)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as practical and safe.
   (C)   Funeral procession to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia and by
having the lights of each vehicle lighted.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-46 RIDING ON BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operator.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-47 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle, or any toy vehicle to cling to or to attach himself or his or her
vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-48 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled, or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-49 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board,
or outside step of any vehicle.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-50 RECKLESS, CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a careless,
reckless, or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or property.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-51 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual users of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-52 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-53 COMPLAINTS ABOUT UNSAFE DRIVING.
   The Village Board has received many complaints about the operation of
automobiles, trucks, and other motorized vehicles on village streets. Vehicles
are being operated at unsafe speeds, and in unsafe manners, putting village
residents physical well being and property at risk. The Village Board has
determined that additional restrictions on the operation of motorized vehicles
in the village is necessary.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 7-4-54 DRIVING ON ONE WHEEL.
   Operation of cycles on one wheel as reckless driving and other prohibited
maneuvers includes the following.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorcycle or other duly licensed motor-
driven cycle on one wheel.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle or other duly licensed motor-driven cycle
shall engage in maneuvers, stunting, or other operations dangerous to himself
or herself or his or her passenger or to the persons or property of others; and
except when done for the better control of a vehicle, in emergencies, or to
maneuver rough passages of a street, an operator must at all times maintain
body contact with the saddle or seat of the vehicle.
   (C)   No motorcycle or other duly licensed motor-driven cycle shall be
operated in any manner so as to cause a disturbance in any area of the village.
Stunting or racing of motors are prohibited in any marked hospital or nursing
home area, and in residential areas.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 5-4-2021) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-55 DISTURBING PEACE AND QUIET.
   No person shall disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or of the
public by unnecessarily producing loud or unusual noises by means of a motor
vehicle, whether such noises are produced by the friction of tires or wheels
against pavement or other surface, by the unnecessary racing of engines on
motor vehicles, by the unnecessary honking of a horn or horns on motor
vehicles, by the lack of a muffler or a defective muffler, or by the playing of
the car radio or sound system, or otherwise.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 5-4-2021) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-56 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   All-terrain vehicles (other than licensed four-wheel drive automobiles),
including, but not limited to, dirt bikes, three-wheelers and four-wheelers,
and motorized two-wheeled vehicles (except motorcycles properly licensed by the
state) are prohibited on any public street in the village. No person shall
possess, drive, transport, park, load, or unload such a vehicle on any public
street in the village.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 5-4-2021) Penalty, see §
7-4-99
§ 7-4-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §
7-4-5 involving traveling at a speed of no more than 25 mph of the posted speed
limit shall be punishable by a fine of $165.
   (C)   Any person violating any clause or provision of §§
7-4-54,
7-4-55, or
7-4-56, unless otherwise stated, shall be fined not less than $200, nor more
than $750, for each offense, upon conviction thereof.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 22-04, passed 3-15-2022)
CHAPTER 5: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-5-1   No parking places
   
7-5-2   Street cleaning
   
7-5-3   Restricted parking districts
   
7-5-4   Overtime parking prohibited
   
7-5-5   Restricted parking districts on legal holidays
   
7-5-6   Towing cars away
   
7-5-7   Vehicles for sale
   
7-5-8   Curb loading zones
   
7-5-9   Use of bus stops
   
7-5-10   Stopping for passengers in traffic lane
   
7-5-11   Authority of Chief of Police to prohibit parking on certain streets
   
7-5-12   Parking adjacent to schools
   
7-5-13   Repairing vehicle or racing engine on streets
   
7-5-14   Time of use of passenger zones limited
   
7-5-15   Lights on parked vehicles
   
7-5-16   Parking on private property without permission
   
7-5-17   Parking next to right hand curb or shoulder
   
7-5-18   Parking near street construction and maintenance zones
   
7-5-19   Parking during snow events
   
7-5-99   Penalty
§ 7-5-1 NO PARKING PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any motor vehicle to stand at any time in any
of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign or the approaching
side;
   (E)   Within 20 feet of an intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (G)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (J)   On any sidewalk or parkway; or
   (K)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-2 STREET CLEANING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the village at any time when such street is being cleaned. Signs
indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be posted
immediately before the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed after the
cleaning of the street is finished.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-3 RESTRICTED PARKING DISTRICTS.
   The Chief of Police may designate either side or both sides, or any portion
of either side, of any street as a restricted parking district, and shall
determine the time of the day any such parking restrictions shall be effective
as well as the duration of time allowed for continuous vehicular parking, and
shall cause appropriate signs to be erected and maintained in such districts
designating the effective time of day of such parking restriction as well as
the duration of time that continuous vehicular parking is allowed. Such
designation shall be evidenced by the physical presence of such signs or
legends or notices on or near the parking lane of the streets or portions
thereof where such restriction is to be effective.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-4 OVERTIME PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked for any period of time in excess of the
time posted on the officially erected sign or legend or notice effective for
the parking space for which it is erected during the effective time thereof,
and no vehicle within one hour of the time of leaving a restricted parking
space shall be again parked in any portion of either side of the same streets
where parking is also restricted during the effective time thereof.
   (B)   When a traffic violation notice for overtime parking of a vehicle has
been issued for overtime parking in a parking space regulated by officially
erected signs, failure to move the vehicle after expiration of additional
periods of 60 minutes shall constitute separate violations of this section, and
additional traffic violation notices shall be issued for each separate
violation.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-5 RESTRICTED PARKING DISTRICTS ON LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   The parking restrictions of §§
7-5-3 and
7-5-4 shall not be applicable during the following days, which are declared to
be legal holidays within the meaning of this chapter: the first day of January,
commonly called New Year’s Day; the first Monday in February to celebrate
Lincoln’s Birthday; the third Monday in February to celebrate Washington’s
Birthdays; the last Monday in May as Memorial Day; the fourth day of July; the
first Monday in September, known as Labor Day; the second Monday in October as
Christopher Columbus Day; the fourth Monday in October as Veteran’s Day;
December 25, commonly called Christmas Day; and any day appointed or
recommended by the President of the United States as a day of fast or
thanksgiving, and any other days as may be officially proclaimed by the
President to be legal holidays in the village. When any such holidays fall on
Sunday, the Monday next following shall be held and considered such holiday.
The days upon which the general elections for members of the House of
Representatives are held shall not be considered a legal holiday within the
village.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-6 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have
removed and towed away by commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle
illegally parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes
a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct
the movement of any emergency vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in
any public street or other public place for a period of 48 consecutive hours.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-7 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-8 CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine the location of curb
loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same and stating the hours during which they shall be used only as loading
zones.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-9 USE OF BUS STOPS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any space reserved for the stopping of busses;
provided that vehicles other than busses may drive into the curb or sidewalk at
a bus stop for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers. The driver
of any vehicle other than a bus entering a bus stop for the purpose of
receiving or discharging passengers shall not leave the driver’s seat of such
vehicle, shall keep the motor running, and shall immediately drive such vehicle
out of such bus stop after receiving or discharging such passengers, and the
driver of such vehicle shall not permit same to stand within any bus stop for
any such purpose for a longer period than one minute, or after signal has been
given by the driver of a bus that the space occupied by such vehicle is
required and about to be entered by such bus.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-10 STOPPING FOR PASSENGERS IN TRAFFIC LANE.
   A private vehicle may be momentarily stopped within a traffic lane to a
light therefrom or to permit a passenger waiting at the curb opposite the place
where such vehicle is stopped to enter or board such vehicle. Any vehicle
stopped within a traffic lane for such purpose shall not be permitted to remain
standing in such traffic lane after such passenger has alighted from, or has
entered or boarded, such vehicle. No such vehicle shall be parked or permitted
to stand within a traffic lane while awaiting a passenger or other occupant to
return thereto, or while waiting for some person to appear who is not at the
curb opposite the place where such vehicle is parked or stopped or while
waiting for some person to leave a building or to perform an errand or to
transact business.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-11 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE TO PROHIBIT PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to prohibit the parking of vehicles
at all times, or between certain hours on any street or portion of street when
in his or her discretion such parking may impede the free flow of traffic on
such streets or create a hazardous condition; and he or she shall cause
appropriate signs to be erected and maintained giving notice thereof. No person
shall park a vehicle during the time prohibited at places so indicated by
official signs.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-12 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property
when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous condition. When official signs are erected indicating no
parking upon either side of a street adjacent to any school property as
authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978)
§ 7-5-13 REPAIRING VEHICLE OR RACING ENGINE ON STREETS.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle or race the
motor of same while standing on the public streets or alleys, excepting in case
of breakdown or other emergency requiring same, and no person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use streets or alleys in the
vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on or upon
automobiles or motor driven vehicles of any description.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-14 TIME OF USE OF PASSENGER ZONES LIMITED.
   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked in any passenger zone for the purpose
of receiving or discharging passengers for a longer period than actually
required and in no single instance for a longer period than two consecutive
minutes.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-15 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street during the period between sunset
and sunrise without displaying a lighted lamp on the front and at the rear of
the same, unless such vehicle is equipped with at least one red reflector at
the rear of such vehicle of at least the equivalent of two square inches of
surface area and so clean and unobstructed as to permit reflection from the
headlights of moving vehicles approaching from the rear.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-16 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle on private property without the consent
of the owner of the private property.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-28-1978) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-17 PARKING NEXT TO RIGHT HAND CURB OR SHOULDER.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped
or parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 12
inches of the curb on the driver’s right side, or as close as practicable to
the driver’s right hand shoulder of the roadway.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 7-5-18 PARKING NEAR STREET CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever construction or maintenance activities are being performed or
are about to be performed on village streets, the Village President may
designate the area of the construction or maintenance operations as a temporary
no-parking zone, and shall direct the Street Department or Police Department to
erect temporary no-parking signs in the area of the maintenance operations. The
temporary no-parking signs shall give the public notice that vehicles parked in
violation of the no-parking sign will be towed at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Towing of vehicles parked in temporary no-parking areas.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person
to park any vehicle in a temporary no-parking area, after the time the
prohibition of parking in such area goes into effect, if temporary no-parking
signs are properly posted under the authority of the Village President.
      (2)   At least 24 hours prior to the onset of the prohibition of parking
in such area, temporary no-parking signs shall be placed at least one for every
100 feet along the area where parking is to be prohibited. The Chief of Police
shall certify in writing that he or she has inspected those areas where such
temporary no-parking signs are posted at the time such temporary no-parking
signs were posted and that such temporary no-parking signs were properly posted
in accordance with this section. Further, the Chief of Police shall certify
that he or she has inspected those areas where temporary no-parking signs are
posted at least once in each 24-hour period following the initial posting and
that all such temporary no-parking signs were still erect, visible, and
legible, or that such person has caused a replacement of any signs which were
not erect, visible, and legible. The Chief of Police or a police officer
designated by the Chief of Police shall also identify by make, model, license
number, and location those vehicles which were found parked in the temporary
no-parking area when the temporary no-parking signs were first erected in such
temporary no-parking area.
      (3)   Any vehicle parked in a temporary no-parking area prior to the
erection of temporary no- parking signs and remaining parked in the same
location more than 24 hours after the erection of such temporary no-parking
signs may be ordered by any police officer of the village or by the Village
President to be towed by a towing service in accordance with § 4-203 of the
state’s Motor Vehicle Code.
      (4)   Any vehicle parked or subsequently relocated in a temporary no-
parking area after the time that parking in such temporary no-parking area
became prohibited by virtue of the erection of temporary no-parking signs
pursuant this section, may be towed by a towing service upon the order of any
police officer of the village at the expense of the owner thereof, in
accordance with § 4-203 of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 10-16, passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-19 PARKING DURING SNOW EVENTS.
   (A)   As used herein, a SNOW EVENT is any period of time during which two
inches or more of snow has accumulated in the village during any continuous 24-
hour period.
   (B)   (1)   Parking is prohibited on all village streets during a snow event
and for a period of 24 hours after cessation of a snow event; provided,
however, that after cessation of a snow event, parking may be resumed on an
individual street as soon as final plowing has been completed on that street.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicles parked on village streets in violation of this
section may be towed by the Police Department if:
            1.   The owner of the vehicle cannot be found by knocking on all
doors within 100 feet of the vehicle; or
            2.   The owner, if found, fails or refuses to remove the vehicle
within 15 minutes of notice.
         (b)   Vehicle towed by the Police Department may be reclaimed upon
payment of any towing and storage fee, if any.
      (3)   Persons parking vehicles in violation of this section do so at
their own risk. The village shall not be liable for accidental damage caused by
any village vehicle or equipment engaged in snow removal operations to any
vehicle parked in violation of this section.
      (4)   The Street Department is hereby authorized and directed to place
and establish signs notifying the public of these regulations at all entrances
to the village along public streets, and other places where notice is deemed
appropriate by the Street Department.
      (5)   The Village President, the Chief of Police, and their designees are
hereby authorized to declare the existence of a snow event and to provide
notice thereof via a news release to local media when a snow event has occurred
or is expected and of the village’s intent to remove snow on the village
streets and to tow vehicles which may be parked thereon in violation of this
section. However, no such notice is a necessary prerequisite to the enforcement
of this section.
(Ord. 15-01, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
7-5-99
§ 7-5-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
1-1-99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
7-5-17 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $8 nor more than $200.
   (C)   Persons parking in violation of this §
7-5-18 shall be subject to a fine of $250. Each day during which a vehicle is
parked in violation of §
7-5-18 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-26-1979; Ord. 10-16, passed 9-9-2010)
CHAPTER 6: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Parking
   
III.   Stop intersection
   
IV.   Street classification
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit upon Monica Lane and the 1600 block of North Milton
within the corporate limits of the village shall be 15 mph. Such limit shall
apply to all motor vehicles, excluding emergency vehicles responding to an
emergency.
   (B)   The driver or operator of any vehicle who violates the speed limit set
forth in division (A) above shall be prosecuted in conformance with the state’s
Vehicle Code and all applicable rules of procedure.
   (C)   Signs which indicate the speed limit set forth in division (A) above
shall be erected at reasonable locations upon or adjacent to Monica Lane.
(Ord. 09-05, passed 7-21-2009)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall park a motor vehicle on the north side of North
Grand Avenue between Wesley Street and Stephen Avenue between the hours of 7:
00. a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any day.
      (2)   Violation of this division (A) shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $500.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon the shoulders along
either side of North Grand Avenue, except under the following circumstances.
      (2)   The owner or occupant of a residence along North Grand Avenue may
park an automobile or pickup truck upon such shoulder in front of or close to
his or her residence, so long as the automobile or pickup truck does not exceed
14,000 pounds in gross weight, including load, and is used by that owner or
occupant for personal transportation.
      (3)   A visitor to a residence along North Grand Avenue may park his or
her automobile or pickup truck upon such shoulder in front of or close to the
residence he or she is visiting, provided the vehicle meets the conditions set
out in division (B)(2) above and is so parked for no more than four hours.
      (4)   The driver of any delivery vehicle or garbage truck may allow said
vehicle to stand upon the shoulders along either side of North Grand Avenue for
a short period of time, not to exceed the time needed to make the delivery or
collect garbage or refuse. Under no circumstances may a delivery vehicle or
garbage truck be parked upon the shoulders along either side of North Grand
Avenue.
      (5)   The driver of any utility company vehicle may park such vehicle
upon the shoulders along either side of North Grand Avenue at such place and
for such time as may be necessary to make emergency repairs to the utility’s
system. Under no circumstances may a utility company vehicle be parked upon the
shoulders along either side of North Grand Avenue for the purpose of making
non- emergency repairs or regular maintenance.
      (6)   Signs shall be erected and maintained along North Grand Avenue to
apprise the public of the parking limitations set out in this schedule.
      (7)   The parking of motor vehicles on either side of Wesley Street and
on either side of Keys Avenue within 75 feet of the intersection of those two
streets is prohibited. Signs shall be erected and maintained to apprise the
public of the parking prohibition set out in this division (B)(7).
      (8)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this division (B) shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100 for the first
offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $200 for the second offense
within the 12 months after the first offense, and a fine of not less than $200
nor more than $300 for the third offense within 12 months after the first
offense. Any further offense by the same person, firm, or corporation within 12
months from the date of the first offense shall be punished by a fine of up to
$500.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon the shoulders along
either side of Grandview Avenue, within 75 feet westward from the west edge of
Albany Street.
      (2)   Signs shall be erected and maintained along Grandview Avenue, west
of its intersection with Albany Street, to apprise the public of the parking
restriction set out in this division (C).
      (3)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this division (C) shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100 for the first
offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $200 for the second offense
within the 12 months after the first offense, and a fine of not less than $200
nor more than $300 for the third offense within 12 months after the first
offense. Any further offense by the same person, firm, or corporation within 12
months from the date of the first offense shall be punished by a fine of up to
$500.
   (D)   (1)   Parking of motor vehicles shall be restricted along the west
side of Wesley Street, south of North Grand Avenue, along the 155 feet eastern
edge of Lot 1 of Wanless’ North Grand Place Addition, so that only parallel
parking is allowed.
      (2)   One or more signs shall be posted to designate the area set forth
in division (D)(1) above as “Parallel Parking Only”.
      (3)   A violation of this division (D) shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $5 nor more than $15 per occurrence.
   (E)   Parking shall be prohibited on the west side of Monica Lane from
Monica Court to Milton Street and along the west side of Milton Street from
Monica Lane to 1613 North Milton Street. The Street Department shall erect “No
Parking” signs in accordance with this division (E).
   (F)   (1)   The following is designated as a no-parking zone: the east side
of North Milton Avenue on the portion of North Milton Avenue that is north of
East Keys Avenue in the village.
      (2)   The Street Department and Police Department shall erect appropriate
signage as soon as possible to notify the public of the no-parking zone.
   (G)   (1)   The following is designated as a no-parking zone: west side of
Milton Avenue to Monica Lane.
      (2)   The Street Department and Police Department shall erect appropriate
signage in conformance with state law as soon as practicable.
(Ord. 163, passed 11-27-1973; Ord. 227, passed 6-26-1984; Ord. 250, passed 5-
13-1986; Ord. 280, passed - -1989; Ord. 286, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 351, passed
5-21-1996; Ord. 23-08, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 24-14, passed - -2024)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be erected at all four corners of the intersection of
Milton Avenue and Keys Avenue so that motor vehicle traffic traveling in any
direction at such intersection shall be required to stop before entering the
intersection.
   (B)   The Street Department shall place stop signs at the southeast and
northwest intersection of Water and Grandview Streets in the village to control
traffic north and south on Water Street.
   (C)   Stop signs shall be placed on the following intersections: North
Wesley Street and East Reservoir Street; and East Keys Avenue and North Wolfe
Street.
(Ord. 185, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 341, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 24-14, passed - -
2024)
SCHEDULE IV. STREET CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   In accordance with Public Act 94-0763, the village hereby designates
North Grand Avenue within the village as a Class III highway.
   (B)   North Grand Avenue in the village is hereby designated as a truck
route, subject to the weight limitations set forth in § 15-116(f) of the
state’s Vehicle Code, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified
herein and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 06-11, passed 9-5-2006)
CHAPTER 7: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
7-7-1   Right-of-way
   
7-7-2   Pedestrian crossing roadway
   
7-7-3   Signals
   
7-7-4   Standing on sidewalk
   
7-7-5   Pedestrian crossing
   
7-7-6   Pedestrian walking along roadways
   
7-7-7   Blind pedestrians; right-of-way
§ 7-7-1 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where traffic-control signals or pedestrian control signals provided
for in Chapters 1 and 2 of this chapter, are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall
have the right-of-way over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and any
pedestrian within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall
have the right-of-way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for
the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-7-2 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING ROADWAY.
   (A)   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk he or she shall yield the right- of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone, if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-7-3 SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-7-4 STANDING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-7-5 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-7-6 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall step
off to the left.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-7-7 BLIND PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right-of-way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals; anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver of
every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his or her vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of the section shall not apply to a blind person who is not carrying
such a cane or walking stick or is not guided by a dog, but the other
provisions of this chapter relating to pedestrians shall be applicable to such
person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or so carry such a
cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways, or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
CHAPTER 8: VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
7-8-1   Clear vision
   
7-8-2   Signal lamps
   
7-8-3   Unnecessary noise
   
7-8-4   Horn
   
7-8-5   Gas and smoke
   
7-8-6   Projecting loads; width, length, and height
   
7-8-7   Brakes
   
7-8-8   Muffler
   
7-8-9   Lights
   
7-8-10   Firefighters
   
7-8-11   Non-skid devices
   
7-8-12   Tires
   
7-8-13   Weight
   
7-8-14   Spilling loads
   
7-8-15   Bicycles
   
7-8-16   Driving unsafe vehicles prohibited
§ 7-8-1 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle with the
view of the roadway to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror
so attached as to give him or her a view of the roadway behind him or her.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-2 SIGNAL LAMPS.
   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and required
signals shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device
when ths distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab, or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24
inches, or when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to
the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter
measurement shall apply to any single vehicle, also to any combination of
vehicles.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-8-3 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-4 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (B)   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling devise.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-5 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-6 PROJECTING LOADS; WIDTH, LENGTH, AND HEIGHT.
   (A)   The maximum width, length, and height of any vehicle and its load
shall not exceed the limits expressed in the state’s Traffic Law.
   (B)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side
thereof.
   (C)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two units, but such limitation shall not apply to vehicles operated in daytime
when transporting pipes, poles, machinery, and other objects which cannot be
readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles operated at night time by a public
utility when engaged in emergency repair work; but such loads carried at night
shall be clearly merited with sufficient lights to show the full dimensions of
the load.
   (D)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-8-7 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to ths mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicles.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-8 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cutout is prohibited.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-9 LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law,
provided that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street
or portion thereof designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles may so
park at nighttime.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-10 FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a firefighter may be
equipped with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle.
   (B)   A flashing blue light may be used only when such firefighter is
responding to a fire call.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-8-11 NON-SKID DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any motor vehicle equipped
with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid or non-flexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-12 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state’s Traffic Law.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-13 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law, or in violation of special weight limits provided for
by ordinance and sign posted.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-14 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on
any street or alley in the municipality.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 7-8-15 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance from 50
feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle that is not equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a good and adequate brake.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963)
§ 7-8-16 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with some lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation to this chapter.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-15-1963) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
CHAPTER 9: TOWING OF VEHICLES FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS
Section
   
7-9-1   General provisions
   
7-9-2   Offenses for which fees are imposed
   
7-9-3   Provisions governing fees
   
7-9-4   Opportunity for hearing
   
7-9-5   Notice
   
7-9-6   Notice of hearing
   
7-9-7   Administrative hearing requirements
   
7-9-8   Disposal upon failure to retrieve
   
7-9-9   Unpaid fees
§ 7-9-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The village hereby institutes procedures for the release of properly
impounded vehicles and provides for the imposition of a reasonable
administrative fee related to its administrative and processing costs
associated with the investigation, arrest, and detention of an offender, or the
removal, impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle. The administrative
fee imposed by the village is in addition to any fees charged for the towing
and storage of an impounded vehicle. The administrative fee shall be waived by
the village upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the
vehicle was impounded. To demonstrate that the motor vehicle was hijacked or
stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, the owner or the agents of the
owner must submit proof that a report concerning the motor vehicle was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012; Ord. 24-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 7-9-2 OFFENSES FOR WHICH FEES ARE IMPOSED.
   The Police Department may impound vehicles and cause vehicles to be towed,
and an administrative fee in the amount of $250 is hereby imposed for the
release of properly impounded vehicles, for any of the violations provided for
in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7(b).
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012; Ord. 24-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 7-9-3 PROVISIONS GOVERNING FEES.
   The following shall apply to the fees imposed pursuant to §
7-9-2.
   (A)   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner.
   (B)   The fees shall be in addition to any other penalties that may be
assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and any towing or
storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
   (C)   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the Village Treasurer at
the Village Utility Office.
   (D)   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to
the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 7-9-4 OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING.
   The registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that owner shall
have the opportunity for a hearing pursuant to § 11-208.3(b)(4) of the Motor
Vehicle Code. Hearings under this section shall be conducted by a Hearing
Officer of the Code Hearing Department.
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 7-9-5 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle
to a facility authorized by the village.
   (B)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the village shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative
hearing.
   (C)   The village shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder either:
      (1)   Pays the administrative fee in full with all towing and storage
charges; or
      (2)   Posts with the village a bond equal to the administrative fee and
all towing and storage charges.
   (D)   The person paying the administrative fee may waive in writing the
right to administrative hearing at the time the administrative fee is paid.
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 7-9-6 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Unless waived in writing at the time the administrative towing fee is
paid, the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of
record shall be provided with a notice of hearing.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party’s
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle
is impounded by the village; and
      (3)   Contain the date, time, and location of the administrative hearing.
An initial hearing shall be convened no later than 45 days after the date of
the mailing of the notice of hearing.
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 7-9-7 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by the Hearing
Officer pursuant to the village’s Code Hearing Department ordinance.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall consider, as a defense to the vehicle
impoundment, that the motor vehicle was stolen or hijacked at the time the
vehicle was impounded. To demonstrate that the motor vehicle was hijacked or
stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, the owner or the agents of the
owner or a lessee must submit proof that a report concerning the motor vehicle
was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment based on a determination of whether the officer had probable cause
to impound the vehicle.
   (C)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the Hearing
Officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the release of the vehicle
shall be forfeited to the village.
   (D)   All final decisions of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to review
under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law.
   (E)   Unless the Hearing Officer overturns the basis for the vehicle
impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or lienholder
of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage charges are
paid.
   (F)   If the Administrative Hearing Officer finds that the village exceeded
its authority under this chapter, the village shall be liable to the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle for the cost of the storage fees and reasonable
attorneys’ fees.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, if the
Administrative Hearing Officer finds that the village impounded a motor vehicle
that was stolen or hijacked at the time the vehicle as impounded, the village
shall refund any administrative fees already paid by the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle.
(Ord. 12-17, passed 4-17-2012; Ord. 24-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 7-9-8 DISPOSAL UPON FAILURE TO RETRIEVE.
   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
35 days after the Administrative Hearing Officer issues a written decision
shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of Chapter 4 of the state’s Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 7-9-9 UNPAID FEES.
   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty, or
administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or
in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under
the Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 3-5-2024)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
2.   EXCAVATIONS
      
3.   MAINTENANCE OF SEWER LATERALS
      
4.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
5.   VILLAGE PARKS
      
6.   STREET TREES AND PLANTS
      
7.   USE OF GRANDVIEW MUNICIPAL BUILDING
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
8-1-1   Driveways, sidewalks, and culverts
   
8-1-2   Street widths
   
8-1-3   Snow deposits
   
8-1-99   Penalty
§ 8-1-1 DRIVEWAYS, SIDEWALKS, AND CULVERTS.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall hereafter construct, build, establish,
or maintain any driveway or sidewalk entering upon any village street causing
the blocking of drainage along said village street.
   (B)   (1)   Any driveway entering a village street must be at least 16 feet
wide and not to exceed 20 feet wide.
      (2)   Any sidewalk entering a village street must be at least three feet
wide and not to exceed four feet.
      (3)   The culvert tile used to support driveway and sidewalks to allow
free flow of water in gutters must be at least eight inches and not more than
12 inches in diameter.
      (4)   No part of said driveway or sidewalk shall be constructed in such a
manner as to change the grade of gutter or direction of free flow of water in
said gutter. All driveways or sidewalks entering a village street shall be kept
and maintained at all times in accordance with the provisions hereof by the
owner and tenant of real estate served by said driveway or sidewalk.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-21-1958) Penalty, see §
8-1-99
§ 8-1-2 STREET WIDTHS.
   All streets shall be laid out in this village of a width of not less than 50
feet including dead end and cul-de-sac streets and these shall be laid out with
a terminance that is not of any different shape than a dedicated right-of-way,
based on a radius of 50 feet.
(Ord. 77, passed 4-2-1956)
§ 8-1-3 SNOW DEPOSITS.
   No person shall deposit or pile up snow, or suffer or permit snow to be
deposited or piled up, on property owned, occupied, or controlled by such
person, within 30 feet of any corner of an intersection of two public streets,
such that the pile or deposit of snow exceeds 30 inches in height at any point,
measured from the roadway surface.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
8-1-99
§ 8-1-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or corporation violating any provisions of §
8-1-1 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $25 and shall be further
fined $1 for each day such person or corporation continues in violation of §
8-1-1 after notice thereof by the village. Notwithstanding the penalty
provision, the village may, after ten days’ notice to such property owners in
violation of §
8-1-1, do all work necessary to correct such violation. The cost of such
corrective work shall be paid to the village by such property owner. Such
notice may be given by regular U.S. mail or by posting such notice on or
immediately in front of the property upon which violation then exists.
   (B)   Persons violating §
8-1-3 shall be subject to a fine, upon conviction thereof, of $250 per offense.
Each day a pile or deposit of snow which violates this section continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-21-1958; Ord. 15-02, passed 1-6-2015)
CHAPTER 2: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
8-2-1   Permit or contract requirement
   
8-2-2   Permits
   
8-2-3   Fees
   
8-2-4   Performance bond
   
8-2-5   Restoration
   
8-2-6   Trench backfill
   
8-2-7   Liability insurance
   
8-2-8   Emergencies
   
8-2-9   Deposits
   
8-2-99   Penalty
§ 8-2-1 PERMIT OR CONTRACT REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall injure, tear up, or make any excavation in, or bore under
any street, alley, public sidewalk, or other public ground within the village,
without a contract with the village, or without first obtaining a written
permit from the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996) Penalty, see §
8-2-99
§ 8-2-2 PERMITS.
   A permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector only upon written
application filed in duplicate therefore stating the nature and extent of the
work sought to be done, and accompanied by a plat, tracing, sketch, or drawing
showing the location, character, and dimensions of the proposed opening for the
installation of new work, or the location and character of the alterations
involving changes in the location of pipes, conduits, wires, or conductors.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-3 FEES.
   (A)   Prior to issuing a permit, the Building Inspector shall collect a fee
from the applicant for such opening based upon the following schedule:
      (1)   For streets or alleys constructed of Portland cement concrete or
bituminous concrete surface: $150;
      (2)   For streets or alleys constructed of a bituminous surface
treatment: $100;
      (3)   For streets or alleys constructed of an earth surface or of an
aggregate surface: $50; and
      (4)   For sidewalks: $25.
   (B)   Fees for excavations parallel to or along any street or alley, or
extending diagonally into, through, or across any street or alley shall be as
provided by the Village Board by special resolution or ordinance.
   (C)   The Springfield Metropolitan Sanitary District shall not be required
to pay any fees in connection with the opening of any street within the village
for the purpose of examining or making repairs to any existing sewer main or
connection, but shall be required to comply with all other ordinances or
sections thereof concerning the opening of streets. This exemption from the
payment of fees shall not apply where a street is being opened to establish new
service.
(Ord. 262, passed 11-10-1987; Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-4 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   In addition to the fee set forth in §
8-2-3, the applicant shall furnish the village with a performance bond in the
amount of $5,000 to ensure the restoration of the public street or sidewalk to
its original condition or grade. In the event the Building Inspector believes
the cost of restoration would exceed the sum of $5,000, he or she shall obtain
a cost estimate from the village’s consulting engineer, and the performance
bond shall be in the amount of $5,000 or such estimate, whichever is greater.
In lieu of a bond, the applicant may deposit with the Treasurer the sum of
$5,000, or the estimated cost, whichever is greater, as security for
performance of the work.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-5 RESTORATION.
   The person to whom a permit is issued shall promptly restore such street,
alley, public sidewalk, or other public ground to a condition equally as good
as before it shall have been so opened. Upon completion of such restoration he
or she shall notify the Building Inspector or Superintendent of Streets. The
Building Inspector or Superintendent of Streets shall immediately notify the
village’s consulting engineer, and within 24 hours the village’s consulting
engineer shall inspect the work of restoration and shall report to the Building
Inspector or Superintendent of Streets whether or not the restoration is
satisfactory.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-6 TRENCH BACKFILL.
   (A)   Any person making an excavation in a street, avenue, alley, public
sidewalk, or other public ground shall replace the earth removed from the
surfaced roadway and for a distance of two feet on each side of the surfaced
roadway or sidewalk with trench backfill. Trench backfill shall consist of
filling such excavation within the limits prescribed, with fine aggregate
consisting of sand, stone sand, stone screenings, or chats conforming to the
following requirements.
   (B)   Graduation of fine aggregate shall be uniformly graded, and when
tested by laboratory sieves, shall conform to the following limits:
      (1)   Passing three-eights inch sieve: 100%;
      (2)   Passing No. 4 sieve: 85-100%;
      (3)   Passing No. 100 sieve: 0-30%; and
      (4)   Amount of material passing through No. 22 sieve shall not exceed:
10%.
   (C)   Surplus earth removed from such excavation and replaced with trench
backfill shall not be allowed to remain in the street after completion of
trench backfilling.
   (D)   Placement and compaction of the trench backfill shall be in
conformance with the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”
adopted by the state’s Department of Transportation, and the latest revision
thereof.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-7 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Prior to issuance of any permit, the Building Inspector shall require the
applicant for a permit to file a policy of liability insurance or certificate
of insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state, with limits of not less than $200,000 for injury to each person and
$500,000 for injury to all persons in each accident, and $25,000 for property
damage claims, and specifically naming the village as an additional named
insured on such insurance policy or certificate. Such policy of insurance shall
guarantee to defend the village against all claims arising out of the
excavation or other work done by the permitee.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-8 EMERGENCIES.
   In the event of an emergency causing the breakage or malfunction of a water
or gas main or pipe, sewer, or electrical or communication wires or conductors
which requires the immediate opening of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public ground in the village, any utility company or governmental body
responsible for such service may proceed to make necessary repairs without
first securing the written permit required in §
8-2-2, but such company or body shall given written notice to the Building
Inspector within four days after commencement of such work and shall comply
with all other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-9 DEPOSITS.
   Deposits collected by the Building Inspector pursuant to §
8-2-4 shall be turned over to the Treasurer and shall be kept separate from
other village funds. When the Building Inspector has been informed that the
restoration has been inspected and found satisfactory, the deposit shall be
refunded to the depositor or the performance bond released, as the case may be.
If the restoration is found to be unsatisfactory or is not completed by the
applicant in three days after written notice from the Building Inspector or
Superintendent of Streets, the entire deposit or performance bond proceeds or
so much thereof as may be necessary, shall be used to complete the restoration,
and such portion of the deposit, if any, as is unnecessary to complete the
restoration shall be refunded to the depositor. If the deposit is insufficient
to complete the restoration, the depositor shall be required to pay the
additional amount necessary to complete the restoration.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 8-2-99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-21-1996)
CHAPTER 3: MAINTENANCE OF SEWER LATERALS
Section
   
8-3-1   Maintenance of sewer lines
   
8-3-2   Repairs to damaged property
   
8-3-3   Nuisances
   
8-3-4   Repair of damaged sewers
   
8-3-99   Penalty
§ 8-3-1 MAINTENANCE OF SEWER LINES.
   It is the responsibility of every owner of record of land located within the
village to repair and maintain all sewer lines and works which are located
between the building line of any structure served by a public sewer system and
the point of connection to the sewer system (herein referred to as “laterals”).
All repairs of laterals shall be accomplished by a drain layer who is bonded
and qualified pursuant to the ordinances of the Springfield Metropolitan
Sanitary District.
(Ord. 2000-49, passed 11-7-2000)
§ 8-3-2 REPAIRS TO DAMAGED STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a lateral located beneath a village street, sidewalk, or alley is
in disrepair, and sewage escaping from the lateral thereby damages the village
street, sidewalk, or alley, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of
record of the premises served by such lateral to cause the repair of such
lateral by a drain layer who is bonded and qualified to pursuant to the
ordinances of the Springfield Metropolitan Sanitary District, and in connection
therewith, to repair the village street, sidewalk, or alley to the condition
and grade it had prior to the damage.
(Ord. 2000-49, passed 11-7-2000)
§ 8-3-3 NUISANCES.
   Sewer laterals which have collapsed, or which permit the infiltration of
groundwater or the exfiltration of raw sewage, are hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 2000-49, passed 11-7-2000) Penalty, see §
8-3-99
§ 8-3-4 REPAIR OF DAMAGED SEWERS.
   (A)   Whenever the village discovers a sewer lateral which has collapsed, or
which permits the infiltration of groundwater or the exfiltration of raw
sewage, it may make written demand by registered or certified mail to the owner
of record of the premises served thereby, that such owner repair the lateral
within 30 days. The owner of record shall comply with the notice and cause the
repairs to be made by a drain layer who is bonded and qualified to pursuant to
the ordinances of the Springfield Metropolitan Sanitary District. Failure to
cause such repairs to be made shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Village discovers a sewer lateral which has collapsed, or
which permits the infiltration of groundwater or the exfiltration of raw
sewage, and such sewer lateral has caused or threatens to cause damage to a
village street, sidewalk, or alley, the village may make written demand, by
registered or certified mail, that the owner of the premises served thereby
repair the lateral and the street, sidewalk, or alley within seven days of
receipt of the demand. The owner of record shall comply with the notice, and
cause the repairs to the laterals to be made by a drain layer who is bonded and
qualified to pursuant to the ordinances of the Springfield Metropolitan
Sanitary District, and the repair to the street to be made by a competent
contractor who has obtained the necessary street cut permit and bond as
required by the ordinances of the village. Failure to cause such repairs to be
made shall be a violation of this chapter. The Village President may extend the
seven-day period contained in this division (B) for good cause shown.
   (C)   If the owner of record fails to cause the repair such a lateral and
the street, sidewalk, or alley damaged thereby as specified in division (B)
above, the village may itself make the repairs, or may hire a contractor to do
the work, and may bill the owner of the premises served thereby for the cost of
repairs. In the event the bill is not paid, the village shall, in addition to
other remedies provided in this chapter, have recourse to all remedies afforded
the village under its water ordinance, including the cessation of water and
sewer service, the imposition of a lien on the property served, and institution
of appropriate collection actions. If the village itself makes the repairs, it
shall charge the owner of record $100 per hour for the use of village personnel
and equipment
(Ord. 2000-49, passed 11-7-2000)
§ 8-3-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation which fails to make repairs to a
sewer lateral or to a street, sidewalk, or alley within the times specified in
a notice lawfully issued pursuant to §
8-3-3 and in violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
liable to a fine in an amount of not less than $200 nor more than $750. Each
day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, the village may, in
addition to or in lieu of an action for a fine, avail itself of any remedy
available to it in law or equity to abate a nuisance.
(Ord. 2000-49, passed 11-7-2000)
CHAPTER 4: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
8-4-1   Purpose and scope
   
8-4-2   Definitions
   
8-4-3   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
8-4-4   Collection requirements and conditions
   
8-4-5   Application fees
   
8-4-6   Exceptions to applicability
   
8-4-7   Pre-existing agreements
   
8-4-8   Annual recurring rate
   
8-4-9   Abandonment
   
8-4-10   Dispute resolution
   
8-4-11   Indemnification
   
8-4-12   Insurance
§ 8-4-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.l.a.i through
VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. Part
1, Appendix C; or designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site,
or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the state’s Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the state’s Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of- way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
fire fighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter; concealment elements; telecommunications demarcation
box; ground-based enclosures; grounding equipment; power transfer switch; cut-
off switch; and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
equipment associated with wireless communications; radio transceivers;
antennas; coaxial or fiber-optic cable; regular and backup power supplies; and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS
FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not
include: the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment
is collocated; or wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber-optic cable
that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or
fiber- optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-3 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in §
8-4-4(I) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning
district, or outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village’s Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge; and
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt
of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances,
or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village’s review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial; however, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement provided by the village for
the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a
license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
   (C)   Completeness of application.
      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information, and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
      (2)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
   (D)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      (1)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the village;
or
      (2)   A local, state, or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
   (E)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities within
the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
      (2)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   (F)   Duration of permits.
      (1)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition, or requirement contained in this chapter.
      (2)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
   (G)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-4 COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair, and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition
and good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents, or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
      (1)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’s communications equipment.
      (3)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (4)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. § 22.970 through 47 C.F.R. § 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. § 90.672
through 47 C.F.R. § 90.675.
      (5)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(4) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Location of devices.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      (2)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (D), the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance with codes. The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
   (F)   Design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a village ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive
plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the
rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
   (G)   Alternate placements.
      (1)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and conditions
section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small
wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles,
or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
      (2)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits, or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division (G).
   (H)   Height limitations.
      (1)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
      (2)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (I)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a special use permit, variance, or administrative waiver, in
conformance with procedures, terms, and conditions set forth in village
ordinances.
   (J)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of- way.
   (K)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   (L)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   (M)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-5 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application to
collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The village shall not require an application, approval, or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with §
8-4-3(B)(1); or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-6 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the state’s Highway Code; or
   (C)   (1)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the state’s Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail
service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities
Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the provisions of § 16-
108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning
given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement to obtain
a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-7 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018 shall comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees, and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees, and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (B).
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-8 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals $200 per year or the actual, direct, and reasonable
costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the village utility
pole. If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-9 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider, if the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-10 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The County Circuit Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all
disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending
resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless
facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the village
shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of
no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to be
determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-11 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 8-4-12 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 5: VILLAGE PARKS
Section
   
8-5-1   Motorcycles and motor bikes prohibited
   
8-5-99   Penalty
§ 8-5-1 MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR BIKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The riding or operation of motorcycles and motor bicycles in the
village public park located on Lot 67 of the Springfield Heights Addition is
hereby prohibited at all times, and no person shall ride or operate a
motorcycle or motor bicycle within said public park at any time.
   (B)   A sign shall be posted on said public park restricting motorcyclists
and motor bicyclists from riding or operating their machines on said park
property at any time.
(Ord. 170, passed 4-15-1975) Penalty, see §
8-5-99
§ 8-5-99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of §
8-5-1 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 170, passed 4-15-1975)
CHAPTER 6: STREET TREES AND PLANTS
Section
   
8-6-1   Definition
   
8-6-2   Obstructions prohibited
   
8-6-3   Trimming trees; costs
   
8-6-4   Permit required to trim trees
   
8-6-5   Permit fee
   
8-6-99   Penalty
§ 8-6-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The unpaved portion of any public right-of-way, as
dedicated in any approved plat of subdivision or otherwise acquired by the
village, which lies between the edge of the pavement and the lot line of the
abutting lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. 291, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 8-6-2 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall plant or maintain any tree or other plant on a street
right-of-way which hinders, obstructs, or endangers the passage of persons or
vehicles on a street, or the passage of persons on sidewalks, or in any way
obstructs or interferes with the view of any traffic-control sign or signal or
with the illumination of any street light.
   (B)   No person shall plant a tree within three feet of the edge of the
pavement of any street.
   (C)   No person shall plant any species of tree upon a street right-of-way
which is prone to disease, which bears fruit, or which can be expected to reach
more than 50 feet in height at maturity.
(Ord. 291, passed 9-11-1990) Penalty, see §
8-6-99
§ 8-6-3 TRIMMING TREES; COSTS.
   The village shall be responsible for the expense of trimming or removal only
where the village elects to do such work, or for trimming only when such trees
have been damaged by high winds, storms, or other acts of nature, or for
removing only when such trees are diseased, are dying, or have died. Decisions
about trimming or removal of trees shall be at the sole discretion of the
village. The Trustee who chairs the standing committee on sidewalks and public
improvements may establish a schedule for any trimming or removal work to be
undertaken by or on behalf of the village.
(Ord. 291, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 8-6-4 PERMIT REQUIRED TO TRIM TREES.
   Any owner, occupier, or person controlling land abutting a street right-of-
way, or any other person desiring the trimming or removal of a tree from a
street right-of-way, where such tree has not been damaged by an act of nature,
or has died or is dying, or where the work has not been scheduled by the
village, may trim or remove such tree, but only with a permit from the village
and only so long as the village does not bear the cost for such work.
(Ord. 291, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 8-6-5 PERMIT FEE.
   Any person desiring to trim or remove a tree in accordance with §
8-6-4 shall first obtain a permit from the village. There shall be a $10 charge
for a trimming permit and a charge of $40 for a removal permit. All fees
collected for such permits shall be used for maintenance or replacement of
trees on village realty, including a street right-of-way.
(Ord. 291, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 8-6-99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be punished by a fine of no less
than $50 and no more than $500 for each violation, together with the actual
cost of trimming or removal which may be occasioned by each offense.
Additionally, any person who violates §
8-6-2 shall be liable to the village and to any other person or entity for any
damages proximately caused by such violation.
(Ord. 291, passed 9-11-1990)
CHAPTER 7: USE OF GRANDVIEW MUNICIPAL BUILDING
Section
   
8-7-1   Lease of buildings
   
8-7-2   Form for lease
   
8-7-3   Applications
   
8-7-4   Types of organizations that may lease property
   
8-7-5   Rental fees
   
8-7-6   Conditions of lease
   
8-7-7   Liquor regulations
   
8-7-8   Fee schedule
§ 8-7-1 LEASE OF BUILDINGS.
   The village hereby delegates to the President of the village the power to
enter into leases of the Grandview Municipal Building for periods of less than
72 hours each in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 98-27, passed - -1998)
§ 8-7-2 FORM FOR LEASE.
   The President or his or her designee shall henceforth use the lease form
attached to the ordinance incorporated herein when leasing the Grandview
Municipal Building.
(Ord. 21-20, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 8-7-3 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A person may reserve the use of the Grandview Municipal Building in
advance of executing a lease, if the person pays a reservation fee in the
amount of 50% of the rental fee established by this chapter.
   (B)   The reservation fee is non-refundable unless the reservation is
cancelled at least ten business days prior to the first day of the proposed
lease. Reservations and leases of the Grandview Municipal Building shall be
processed in the order received.
(Ord. 04- , passed - -2004)
§ 8-7-4 TYPES OF ORGANIZATIONS THAT MAY LEASE PROPERTY.
   The Grandview Municipal Building may be leased only for social, religious,
charitable, civic, and political functions. The Grandview Municipal Building
may be used only for non-commercial purposes. Sales of articles other than food
and beverages incidental to the purpose of the function are prohibited;
provided, however, that sales of articles for fundraising for not-for-profit
organizations is permitted.
(Ord. 98-27, passed - -1998)
§ 8-7-5 RENTAL FEES.
   The lessee shall pay a rental fee set forth in §
8-7-8 at the time the Village President accepts the lease, together with a $100
damage deposit and a $100 cleaning deposit. The rental fee is non-refundable
unless the lease is canceled by the lessee at least ten business days prior to
the first day of the lease. Any reservation deposit paid pursuant to this
section shall be applied as a credit against the rental fee.
(Ord. 04- , passed - -2004)
§ 8-7-6 CONDITIONS OF LEASE.
   Each lease shall be subject to the conditions set forth in the lease form,
Exhibit “A” in the ordinance codified herein, which provisions are herein
incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 98-27, passed - -1998)
§ 8-7-7 LIQUOR REGULATIONS.
   In the event the lessee intends to serve, offer, or use alcoholic liquor on
or about the premises, the lessee shall do so in accordance with the state’s
Liquor Control Act. The lessee shall obtain host liquor liability insurance and
shall provide evidence of insurance to the Village President before the event
commences.
(Ord. 98-27, passed - -1998)
§ 8-7-8 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The schedule of fees for rental of the Grandview Municipal Building are as
follows:
   (A)   Basic rate. All day Sunday through Friday afternoon; $50;
   (B)   Nonresident basic rate. All day Sunday through Friday afternoon: $100;
   (C)   Premium rate. Friday night or all day Saturday: $175;
   (D)   Nonresident premium rate. Friday night or all day Saturday: $350;
   (E)   Deposits.
      (1)   Damage deposit: $100; and
      (2)   Cleaning deposit: $100.
   (F)   Discount for consecutive days. Ten percent off rental fee for second
day; and
   (G)   Funeral rate. No charge, provided the decedent was a current resident
of the village.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 8-21-2001)
TITLE 9: WATER AND SEWER
   Chapter
      
1.   WATER AND SEWER RATES, CHARGES, AND PROCEDURES
      
2.   MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
      
3.   DISCHARGES INTO STORM SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 1: WATER AND SEWER RATES, CHARGES, AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
9-1-1   Water and sewer rates
   
9-1-2   Connection charges
   
9-1-3   Establishing service
   
9-1-4   Meter malfunctions
   
9-1-5   Estimated bills
   
9-1-6   Sewer charges
   
9-1-7   Bills due upon receipt
   
9-1-8   Late fees
   
9-1-9   Shutoff notice; hearing rights
   
9-1-10   Reconnection charges
   
9-1-11   Maintenance responsibilities
   
9-1-12   Village’s right to disconnect service
   
9-1-13   Liability for charges
   
9-1-14   Liens for services
   
9-1-15   Tampering with water service
   
9-1-99   Penalty
§ 9-1-1 WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Rates established. There are hereby established rates for water and
sewer services rendered on or after October 1, 2024. The rates and charges set
forth in Exhibit “A” to the ordinance codified herein for the use of and for
the services supplied by the waterworks and sewer systems of the village will
be effective October 1, 2024, until further notice.
   (B)   Special rates and charges. The President and Board of Trustees reserve
the right to establish special rates and charges for large users and
governmental users commensurate with the extent of services rendered and the
proportionate expenses allocable thereto.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 4-16-2024; Ord. 24-10, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 9-1-2 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   There is hereby established a connection charge for each connection made to
the waterworks system within or without the village limits, which shall be the
actual cost to the village, including materials and labor of making the
connection, irrespective of the size of the meter tap. Connection charges for
sewer service are governed by and paid to the Sanitary District.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-3 ESTABLISHING SERVICE.
   Customers must contact the village utility office in person or by phone to
initiate water and sewer service. A service worker will read the utility meters
on the date requested and the account is activated for billing if the
procedures below are satisfied.
   (A)   New customers.
      (1)   New customers shall apply in person at the utility office. Photo
identification will be required to open new account, and proof of ownership of
the premises served, if applicable.
      (2)   New customers owning the premises to be served shall pay a deposit
before services are offered, as follows.
 
3/4” meter tap                  $125
Larger than 3/4” but less than 2$150
2” and larger                   $200
 
      (3)   New customers who do not own the property to be served shall
complete an application which obligates the landlord to pay for utilities if
the tenant fails to pay, and submit the required deposit before services will
be offered. If the landlord signs the application, thereby agreeing to be bound
to pay for utilities if the tenant fails to pay, the deposit required for water
service shall be the same as in the case of customers who own the premises
being served. If the landlord does not join in the application, then the
required deposit for a new residential tenant is doubled, as follows.
 
3/4” meter tap                  $250
Larger than 3/4” but less than 2$300
2” and larger                   $400
 
   (B)   Prior customers. A prior customer of the village who ceased water
service from the village but paid his or her final bill in full shall be
treated as a new customer. A prior customer who ceased water service from the
village, leaving an unpaid balance, shall pay the balance in full before water
service will be initiated at a new location, and shall pay a deposit in the
amount of the highest bill for the premises served for any month in the two
years prior to ceasing water service.
   (C)   Deposits for certain disconnected customers. Customers whose water
service has been disconnected for more than 30 days are subject to an
additional deposit in accordance with division (E) below.
   (D)   Governmental customers. Units of government which are customers are
exempt from paying any deposit.
   (E)   Disposition of deposits.
      (1)   Except as set forth in division (E)(2) below, a new customer
deposit shall be held by the Water Department until a customer discontinues
water service and the account is paid in full. Upon cessation of service, the
deposits will be used to satisfy any unpaid balance and any remainder shall be
returned to the customer. Any balance remaining due after the application of
the deposit remains the responsibility of the customer. No interest shall
accrue or be paid on any deposit.
      (2)   A customer who owns the premises served, or a customer who is a
tenant of a landlord who has agreed in writing to pay for utilities should the
tenant not pay, shall be entitled to a refund of the deposit if the customer
complies with the following conditions:
         (a)   The customer pays the full bill on time for 18 consecutive
months;
         (b)   The customer applies for a refund of the deposit on a form
available from the Department; and
         (c)   If applicable, the landlord who is bound to pay in the event of
the tenant’s nonpayment has agreed to the refund.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 9-1-4 METER MALFUNCTIONS.
   A customer is responsible for the payment of all water charges, except in
cases of proven meter malfunction. A customer who suspects a meter malfunction
shall report the matter to the Village Board Water Committee, which may make an
adjustment after review.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-5 ESTIMATED BILLS.
   Bills will be marked “ESTIMATED” when weather conditions or other factors
make it necessary to estimate water usage. Estimated bills shall be based upon
average usage and any adjustments necessary shall be made on the next billing
based upon actual meter readings.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-6 SEWER CHARGES.
   A customer is responsible for all sewer charges calculated according to
water usage, except in cases of undergroundwater leaks. In cases of
undergroundwater leaks, a sewer charge adjustment may be made at the discretion
of the village after repairs are completed.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-7 BILLS DUE UPON RECEIPT.
   Monthly bills are due in full upon receipt. Any bill not paid before the
first working day of the succeeding month is deemed overdue and late. Payments
shall be recorded and credited to a customer’s account on the day payment is
received in the office or upon the following working day if the drop box is
used after 1:00 p.m. A customer’s failure to receive a bill or loss of a bill
for any month shall not excuse non-payment.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-8 LATE FEES.
   A customer shall be assessed a late charge of 10% per month on any balance
that is not paid and credited to an account before the close of books on the
first working day of the succeeding month. Late charges become due upon the
second working day of the succeeding month. Partial payment by a customer does
not excuse a late charge on the remaining balance. The corporate authorities
may waive late charges in the interest of fairness.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-9 SHUTOFF NOTICE; HEARING RIGHTS.
   A shutoff notice in the form set forth in the ordinance codified herein as
Exhibit “A” shall be sent to all customers owing a balance at the end of a
month. Subject to the customer’s hearing rights as set forth in the notice,
service shall be discontinued if the bill is not paid in full, including
current and past due charges, within ten days of mailing of the notice, or
payment arrangements are made as set forth in the shutoff notice.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-10 RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   When water service is discontinued, a $50 reconnection fee shall be
paid before service will be restored during regular working hours. The village
shall have no obligation to restore service on a weekend or holiday, or before
or after regular working hours; however, if the customer requests reconnection
during those times, and village personnel are available and willing to restore
service, the reconnection fee shall be $100.
   (B)   A person whose water service has been disconnected for more than 30
days shall pay, before reconnection, an additional deposit in the amount of the
highest bill for the premises served for any month in the two years prior to
disconnection.
(Ord. 15-20, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 9-1-11 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Department is responsible for all maintenance to water meters.
Except for the meter, the customer is responsible for the maintenance of the
water service line from the curb valve to the structure. The Department shall
be responsible for connecting the meter to the service line.
   (B)   A customer shall give the Department at least 48 hours’ notice of the
approximate time connection is desired. Maintenance responsibilities for sewer
lines are governed by Sanitary District ordinances and regulations.
(Ord.17-01, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 9-1-12 VILLAGE’S RIGHT TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The village reserves the right to discontinue service temporarily in
the event of a major undergroundwater leak or a leak within a customer’s
structure until repairs are made, so as to reduce the waste of water and
expense to the customer.
   (B)   The village may deny or discontinue service in the event the
customer’s/structure’s plumbing does not comply with the minimum standards
established by the village’s Building Code and to require the owner of such
structure to cleanse or abate unwholesome conditions related to the plumbing
before service is provided or reconnected.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-13 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   Water and sewer services shall be deemed to be furnished to the owner
of the premises and to the occupant and the user, and from and after the
effective date hereof the owner and the occupant and the user shall be jointly
and severally liable for the payment of all charges for such services, and such
services are furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   Where a landlord has jointly signed an application for service with a
tenant, all outstanding bills and charges shall be paid in full before village
will accept an application for service with respect to a new tenant.
(Ord. 15-20, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 9-1-14 LIENS FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Recording of liens. Unpaid delinquencies which result in disconnection
shall constitute a lien upon the real estate for which such services were
rendered, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed each month to
file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the office of the Recorder
of Deeds of the county in which the premises served are located, and the filing
of such statements shall be deemed notice of lien for the payment of such
charges for such services.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien. Any property which is subject to a lien for
unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of
such sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as in the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. The Village President may authorize
and direct the Village Attorney to institute such proceedings in the name of
the village, in any court having jurisdiction over such matters, against any
property for which such charges have remained unpaid for a period of 60 days
after the bill therefor was rendered.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 9-1-15 TAMPERING WITH WATER SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not expressly authorized by the village
to disconnect or reconnect any water meter or water service, or otherwise to
tamper with, alter, or injure any part of the waterworks or water supply system
of the village.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 3-3-2015) Penalty, see §
9-1-99
§ 9-1-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a penalty of not less than $250 and not more
than $750.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated §
9-1-15 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $750.
In addition, any such person shall be liable for the charges and surcharges set
forth in Ordinance No. 14-14, “an ordinance pertaining to water and sewer rates
and connection fees” or similar ordinance adopted by the village in the future.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 5-17-2011; Ord. 15-07, passed 3-3-2015)
CHAPTER 2: MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
Section
   
9-2-1   Definition
   
9-2-2   Landscape irrigation restrictions
   
9-2-3   Washing vehicles
   
9-2-4   Other water uses
   
9-2-5   Waste of water prohibited
   
9-2-99   Penalty
§ 9-2-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LANDSCAPE. Include sodded and seeded lawns, gardens, trees, shrubs, and
other living plants.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 9-2-2 LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION RESTRICTIONS.
   The use of water from the village water supply for landscape irrigation by
retail water service customers is hereby prohibited except for the following.
   (A)   Designated irrigation days.
      (1)   Irrigation utilizing individual sprinkler systems for landscape is
permitted during the following times.
 
Street Address Designated Day Permitted Hours of Water Use
               Monday,        12:00 a.m. – 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.– 11:59
Odd number     Wednesday,     p.m.
               Friday
               Tuesday,       12:00 a.m. – 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.– 11:59
Even number    Thursday,      p.m.
               Saturday
 
      (2)   A large parcel of property having a single watering system for
several even and odd numbered address buildings may be irrigated on Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday only.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the above, irrigation of lawns, gardens, landscaped
areas, trees, shrubs, or other plants is permitted at anytime except on Sundays
if:
         (a)   A hand-held hose is used;
         (b)   A hand-held, faucet-filled bucket of five gallons or less is
used; or
         (c)   A drip-irrigation system is used, which is a soaker-type hose
that when in use does not result in an aerial dissipation of water.
   (B)   Landscape permits. Upon issuance of a permit by the Village Treasurer,
the following uses of water shall be permitted, except on Sundays.
      (1)   The watering of new landscape at any hour between 12:00 a.m. to 8:
00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., for no more than 21 consecutive days.
Thereafter, watering is permitted for three days each week on the same schedule
as all other retail water service customers. The permit fee shall be $100. One
permit per site shall be allowed. The watering of sod on the initial day of
installation of the sod shall be permitted without restriction to hours of the
day.
      (2)   The watering of landscape when required for chemical application
for no more than three consecutive days during permitted hours of water use.
The permit fee shall be $25. One permit per site shall be allowed.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-31-2012) Penalty, see §
9-2-99
§ 9-2-3 WASHING VEHICLES.
   The use of water from the village water supply for washing vehicles,
including automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, and other types of mobile
equipment, by retail water service customers is hereby prohibited except for
the following.
   (A)   Washing vehicles on designated days. The washing of vehicles and other
types of mobile equipment on Saturdays and Sundays, provided that such washing
shall be done with a hand-held, faucet- filled bucket or a hand-held hose
equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses.
   (B)   Commercial or health exceptions. The use of water is permitted at the
following establishments:
      (1)   A commercial car wash;
      (2)   A new or used motor vehicle dealership for the purpose of preparing
vehicles for sale;
      (3)   A commercial motor vehicle body repair or paint shop for the
purpose of preparing vehicles or pursuant to a customer repair order;
      (4)   Commercial aircraft maintenance not to exceed 30 minutes of water
usage for each aircraft;
      (5)   The state’s Department of Transportation, Division of Aeronautics
during maintenance activities; and
      (6)   Commercial establishments for washing vehicles or equipment.
   (C)   Fundraisers. An organization may conduct one fund raising car wash
event per year for one day with a permit issued by the village. No fee will be
charged for the permit. The event shall be conducted in such a manner to
minimize water used.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-31-2012) Penalty, see §
9-2-99
§ 9-2-4 OTHER WATER USES.
   (A)   Where possible, and except where protection of the public health and
safety require otherwise, sewage effluent will be used to the extent it is
available and practical for street sweeping and routine sewer and inlet
cleaning.
   (B)   All restaurants shall be requested to serve water to customers only
when specifically requested by the customer.
   (C)   Users of water for consolidation of backfill, dust control, resealing
parking lots, or other nonessential uses associated with construction shall be
requested to use suitable alternatives if any so exist.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 9-2-5 WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   The following uses of water are defined as “waste” of water and are
prohibited:
   (A)   Allowing water to run off to a street, gutter, ditch, or drain during
irrigation;
   (B)   Failure to repair a controllable leak within a customer’s property;
and
   (C)   Operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making similar
use of water, except when used in connection with an aquatic landscape
installation that supports flora or fauna. The use of treated water to fill,
refill, or maintain a level of any fountain is prohibited. Aquatic landscapes
described above can only be refilled or have water added on designated
irrigation days during permitted hours of water use.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-31-2012) Penalty, see §
9-2-99
§ 9-2-99 PENALTY.
   Any retail water service customer who violates any provision of this chapter
regulating the use of water shall be subject to the following administrative
fines, to be prosecuted by the village’s Code Hearing Department:
   (A)   First conviction: $50 per occurrence;
   (B)   Second conviction: $100 per occurrence; and
   (C)   Third conviction: $500 per occurrence.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-31-2012)
CHAPTER 3: DISCHARGES INTO STORM SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
9-3-1   Definitions
   
9-3-2   Prohibited discharges
   
9-3-3   Exceptions
   
9-3-4   Stormwater pollution from construction activities
   
9-3-5   Nuisance declared
   
9-3-99   Penalty
§ 9-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STORMWATER. Has the same definition as in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(13):
stormwater runoff; snow melt runoff; and surface runoff and drainage.
   VILLAGE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. Has the same definition as MUNICIPAL SEPARATE
STORM SEWER contained in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(8): a conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human- made channels, or storm drains) owned
or operated by the village and designed and used for collecting or conveying
stormwater.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 9-3-2 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as provided in §
9-3-3, it shall be unlawful for any person or entity to discharge, cause the
discharge of, or allow the discharge of, on or from real property owned or
controlled by such person or entity, into the village storm sewer system, any
material other than stormwater.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
9-3-99
§ 9-3-3 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities and types of discharges, and no other, are an
exception to §
9-3-2 and are permitted under the Illinois EPA’s National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System Permit:
   (A)   Water line and fire hydrant flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation water;
   (C)   Rising groundwaters;
   (D)   Groundwater infiltration;
   (E)   Pumped groundwater;
   (F)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (G)   Foundation drains;
   (H)   Air conditioning condensate;
   (I)   Irrigation water, (except for wastewater irrigation);
   (J)   Springs;
   (K)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (L)   Footing drains;
   (M)   Storm sewer cleaning water;
   (N)   Water from individual residential car washing;
   (O)   Routine external building wash down which does not use detergents;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges;
   (R)   Residual street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities;
   (T)   Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges; and
   (U)   Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed).
(Ord. 03-03, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 9-3-4 STORMWATER POLLUTION FROM CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   All persons engaging in construction activities resulting in a land
disturbance of more than one acre shall comply with NPDES Permit IRL10, a copy
of which is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 9-3-5 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any violation of §§
9-3-2 or
9-3-4 is hereby declared a nuisance. In addition to and concurrently with any
other remedies available at law or in equity, the village may also petition the
Circuit Court for legal or equitable relief to abate any such nuisance.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 9-3-99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than $250 and not more than $750 per offense. Each day a
violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 4-15-2003)
TITLE 10: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
4.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
5.   RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
      
6.   FENCES
      
7.   ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
8.   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS
      
9.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
10.   FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-1-1   Commercial use buildings one story only
§ 10-1-1 COMMERCIAL USE BUILDINGS ONE STORY ONLY.
   Any new construction for commercial use must be of one story only.
(Ord. 69, passed 1-4-1954)
CHAPTER 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
10-2-1   Adoption of Building Code
   
10-2-2   Maintenance of records by Clerk
   
10-2-3   Enforcement
   
10-2-4   When building permit is not required
   
10-2-5   Grandfather clause
   
10-2-99   Penalty
§ 10-2-1 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-3-1, the 2006 edition of the International Building
Code as published by the International Code Council (the “Code”), and all
provisions therein contained, is adopted as the Building Code of the village.
The Code, and all provisions therein contained, shall control all matters
concerning the construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, use,
location, occupancy, and maintenance of all buildings and structures, and shall
apply to existing or proposed building and structures, except for such matters
as are otherwise provided for in §
10-2-3 of this chapter or in other ordinances or statutes or rules or
regulations of the village.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 10-2-2 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CLERK.
   The Village Clerk has placed on file, 30 days before adoption of this
chapter, three copies of the Code, and shall keep such copies in the office of
the Clerk and shall make the Code available for public use, inspection, and
examination.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 10-2-3 ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to intergovernmental agreement, the county’s Building and Safety
Department (the “Department”) shall henceforth act as the village’s enforcement
officials and Building Code Administrator. The Department shall have all powers
of the Administrator and Inspector as provided in the Code. All applications
for building permits shall be made to the Department and all inspections shall
be made by the Department. All fees for permits shall be the same as charged by
the Department and shall be paid to and retained by the county.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 10-2-4 WHEN BUILDING PERMIT IS NOT REQUIRED.
   Notwithstanding the above, a building permit shall not be required for the
following:
   (A)   Cases, counters, and partitions not over five feet high;
   (B)   Painting, papering, window replacement without removing frames, and
similar finish work;
   (C)   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall when projecting out not
more than 54 inches; and
   (D)   Alterations and remodeling, the cost of which is less than $1,000 and
does not constitute or affect corridors, exit ways, and load-bearing members of
those structures.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 10-2-5 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)   No existing building or structure which complied the Building Code
which was in effect at the time of its construction, and no building, the
foundation of which has been laid as of the effective date of this chapter,
which is completed within six months of the effective date of this chapter, and
complies with the International Building Code, 2003 edition, as of the
effective date of this chapter, shall be deemed to be in violation of this
chapter by reason of continuation of the non-complying condition; nor is any
owner required to bring any such structure into compliance with the
International Building Code.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a building was in violation of a
prior Building Code as of the time of its construction, or in violation of
other village ordinance pertaining to building, zoning, or utilities that were
in effect as of the effective date of this chapter, and the International
Building Code is no more stringent than the prior ordinances with respect to
the condition which violated the prior ordinance or code, then the owner of the
building is not entitled to the grandfather provisions of division (A) above.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 10-2-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter or the
Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a penalty not less than $75 per day
nor more than $750 per day. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to
this penalty, the village may utilize other statutory or common law remedies
deemed appropriate by a court of law, including, but not limited to injunctive
relief, preliminary injunctive relief, and obtaining a temporary restraining
order.
   (B)   The Building Code Administrator may in its discretion compromise minor
violations of this chapter and the Code where the offender: promptly corrects
the condition constituting the violation; pays a fine of $25; and pays the cost
of a reinspection fee established by the county. Fines shall be retained by the
village; reinspection fees shall be retained by the county.
   (C)   Any structure, or any part thereof, constructed or maintained not in
accordance with this chapter is hereby declared a nuisance, subject to
abatement in accordance with law.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 3: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
10-3-1   Adoption of code
   
10-3-2   Maintenance of records by Clerk
   
10-3-3   Exceptions to adoption by reference
   
10-3-4   Enforcement
   
10-3-99   Penalty
§ 10-3-1 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-3-1, the 2015 edition of the International Property
Maintenance Code as published by the International Code Council, including
Appendix A, “boarding standards”, is adopted as the Property Maintenance Code
of the village. The International Property Maintenance Code shall control
matters concerning conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and
other physical things and conditions essential to ensure a structures are safe,
sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use; and the demolition of such
existing structures as are provided therein; except if such matters are
otherwise provided for in this chapter or in other ordinances or statutes or
rules or regulations of the village.
(Ord. 15-19, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 10-3-2 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall place on file in the Village Utility Office, one
copy of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, and shall
make the Code available for public use, inspection, and examination.
(Ord. 15-19, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 10-3-3 EXCEPTIONS TO ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code are
not adopted by reference and shall be of no force and effect:
   (A)   Section 103.5, or any other section relating to fees;
   (B)   Sections 111.1 through 111.8, or any other sections pertaining to
appeals of decisions of the Code Official; and
   (C)   Any provision relating to penalties, which are subject to §
10-3-99.
(Ord. 15-19, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 10-3-4 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter is subject to enforcement, at the discretion of the
village, either in the village’s Code Hearing Department or in the Circuit
Court, or both.
   (B)   Persons aggrieved by an order of the Code Official may appeal to the
Village Board at a regular meeting thereof held within 30 days of the decision.
Thereafter, such persons may seek appropriate relief in the Circuit Court.
Persons aggrieved by a decision of the Code Hearing Department shall follow the
procedures established in the Code Hearing Department ordinance.
(Ord. 15-19, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 10-3-99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to have violated the provisions of this chapter or the
International Property Maintenance Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
penalty not less than $100 nor more than $750. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. In addition to this penalty, the village may utilize other statutory
or common law remedies deemed appropriate by a court of law or the Code Hearing
Department, including, but not limited to injunctive relief, preliminary
injunctive relief, and obtaining a temporary restraining order. In the event a
condition existing on real property violates both the International Property
Maintenance Code and some other village ordinance pertaining to dangerous
buildings, abandoned buildings, abandoned or inoperable vehicles, or nuisances,
the village may proceed under either ordinance.
(Ord. 15-19, passed 10-6-2015)
CHAPTER 4: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
10-4-1   Interpretation and definitions
   
10-4-2   Inspection and right of entry
   
10-4-3   Notices and orders; hearings
   
10-4-4   Rules and regulations
   
10-4-5   Minimum standards for basic equipment
   
10-4-6   Egress
   
10-4-7   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
10-4-8   Requirements for rented rooms
   
10-4-9   Dwellings unfit for human habitation
   
10-4-99   Penalty
§ 10-4-1 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING
HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, or PREMISES, are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words, “or any part thereof”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BASEMENT or CELLAR. The portion of any building located partly or wholly
below grade.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants, together with any outbuildings
upon the same lot.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harboring places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal elimination methods approved by
the Health, Safety, and Municipal Building Committee.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, foyers, or communicating corridors,
closets, and storage spaces.
      HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person or agency authorized or under contract with
the village to make inspections for violations of or compliance with these
minimum housing standards.
      HOUSING TRUSTEE. The duly elected member of the Board of Trustees of the
village who chairs the standing Committee on Health, Safety, and the Municipal
Building.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Includes any person who alone or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Has legal or equitable title to any dwelling or dwelling unit;
         (b)   Is the owner’s agent for the purpose of managing, maintaining,
or controlling a dwelling or dwelling unit or collecting the rents therefrom;
and/or
         (c)   Manages, maintains, or controls a dwelling or dwelling unit or/
any part thereof.
      PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association, or
partnership.
      PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas- burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents, and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
      PREMISES. The yard and outbuildings, including garages and sheds, which
are located upon or form a part of a lot upon which any type of dwelling is
located.
      ROOMING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE, BOARDING HOUSE, HOTEL, or MOTEL. Any
dwelling, or part of any dwelling containing one or more rooming units, in
which space is let by the owner or operator for rooming or rooming and boarding
to one or more persons, who are not related to the owner or operator as
follows: husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, sister or brother,
grandparents, grandchildren, niece or nephew, and domestic employees not
exceeding two in number.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
and the terms shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke,
and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983; Ord. 229, passed - -)
§ 10-4-2 INSPECTION AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Housing Trustee or his or her designee is hereby authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming units, and premises located within the corporate limits of the
village in order that he or she may perform the duty of safeguarding the health
and safety of the occupants of dwellings and the general public. For the
purpose of making such inspections, the Housing Trustee or his or her designee
is hereby authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and premises. An order of court,
warrant, writ, or other legal process shall not be necessary to make such
entry.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, of the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Trustee free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit and premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, examination, and survey.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her employee, access to any part of such dwelling or
dwelling unit, or its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, examination, and survey of making such repairs or alterations as
are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with
any lawful rule or regulation adopted or any lawful order issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 10-4-3 NOTICES AND ORDERS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever the housing inspector determines that any dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit, or the premises surrounding any of these, fails to meet
the requirements set forth in this chapter or in applicable rules and
regulations issued under this chapter, the housing inspector shall issue a
notice setting forth the alleged failures and advising the owner, occupant,
operator, or agent that such failures must be corrected. This notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Set forth the alleged violations of any applicable ordinance,
section, rule, or regulation;
      (3)   Describe the dwelling, dwelling unit, or roaming unit where the
violations are alleged to exist;
      (4)   Specify a reasonable time limit, but not more than 30 days, for the
correction of any violation alleged; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner, occupant, operator, or agent of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit personally, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. If one or more persons to whom such notice is
addressed cannot be found after diligent effort to do so, service may be made
upon such persons by posting the notice in or about the dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit described in the notice.
   (B)   At the end of the period of time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, the housing inspector shall reinspect the dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit described in the notice.
   (C)   If upon reinspection the violations are determined by the housing
inspector not to have been corrected, the village may initiate legal
proceedings for the imposition of a fine, for the correction of the alleged
violations, or for such other relief deemed appropriate by the court.
   (D)   The Housing Trustee shall have the power to vary or modify any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto
upon an application to the Trustee in writing by the owner or occupant of a
dwelling or dwelling unit where there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, so that the spirit and intent
of this chapter shall be observed and the public safety be secured and
substantial justice be done; but no such variations or modifications shall be
granted or allowed unless the particulars of each application and the decision
of the Trustee shall be entered upon the public record by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983; Ord. 229, passed - -)
§ 10-4-4 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Board of Trustees may make and adopt such written rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the proper enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter, provided that such rules and regulations shall not be in conflict
with the provisions of this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall have the
same force and effect as the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty for
violation thereof shall be the same as the penalty for violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 10-4-5 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or eating therein,
which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   All fixtures in such dwelling or dwelling unit required by the
provisions of divisions (B), (C), (D), and (E) below shall be properly
installed and connected to an approved sanitary sewer and water system.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which affords privacy to a
person within such room and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a
lavatory basin in good working condition, and properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system.
   (D)   Every dwelling shall contain, within a room which affords privacy to a
person within such room, a bathtub or shower in good working condition, and
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower required
under divisions (B), (C), and (D) above shall be properly connected to water
lines. Every dwelling shall have water heating facilities, which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable
of heating water to such temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water
to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower
at a temperature of not less than 120°F.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities and garbage storage and disposal facilities.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983; Ord. 229, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10-4-99
§ 10-4-6 EGRESS.
   (A)   Every dwelling shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading
to safe and open space at ground level. At least two means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level shall be provided from each story
containing one or more dwelling units above the first story of any dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units.
   (B)   (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors.
      (2)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can be easily opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate
the room.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in division
(B) above except that no windows or skylight shall be required in adequately
ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a properly
maintained mechanical ventilation system capable of exhausting 25 cubit feet of
air per minute.
   (D)   Every dwelling shall be connected to an approved electrical power
system. Every habitable room of such dwelling shall contain at least two
separate floor or wall-type electric convenience outlets, or one such
convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-type electric light fixture; and
every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room, public
hall, and stairway shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall type
electric light fixture. Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly
installed and shall be maintained in good and safe working condition.
   (E)   (1)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water
closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of
at least 68°F, at a distance of three feet above floor level, when the
temperature outside is 0°F.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling
containing four or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all
times. Every public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling
occupancy and containing not more than three dwelling units may be supplied
with conveniently located light switches, controlling an adequate lighting
system which may be turned on when needed instead of full-time lighting.
   (F)   From May 1 to November 1, every door opening directly from a dwelling
unit to outdoor space shall have supplied screens and a self-closing device,
and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space used or
intended to be used for ventilation shall likewise be supplied with screens as
a protection against insects.
   (G)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents and insects shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as
will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (H)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, and rodent-proof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in good repair. Every window, exterior door, and
basement hatchway shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight, and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in good repair.
   (I)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be constructed so as to be safe and capable of supporting the
load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in good
repair.
   (J)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks, and obstructions.
   (K)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (L)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed so that it
will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (M)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed or
shut off from, or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied by him
or her, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual
repairs or alterations are in progress.
   (N)   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling
unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy.
   (O)   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have not less than 700 square feet of
floor area.
      (2)   No dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall have rooms
arranged so that access to a bathroom or water closet compartment can be had
only by going through another dwelling unit; nor shall rooms be arranged so
that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
dwelling unit.
      (3)   All habitable rooms shall have a ceiling height of at least seven
feet.
      (4)   No basement or cellar shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling
unit unless:
         (a)   The floor and walls are protected against leakage of underground
and surface runoff water and are protected against dampness;
         (b)   The total window area in each room equals or exceeds 10% of the
floor area of each such room;
         (c)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjacent to such window area; and
         (d)   At least one such window is easily openable.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983; Ord. 229, passed - -)
§ 10-4-7 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   The responsibilities of owners and occupants of a dwelling or dwelling unit
are as follows.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises
thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall properly
dispose of all rubbish, garbage, and organic waste.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
garbage and other organic waste which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in garbage storage containers or by
utilizing satisfactory garbage disposal facilities. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to supply such containers or facilities for all
dwellings or dwelling units.
      (3)   The owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all window screens.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit containing
more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination
whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this division (D), whenever infestation is caused by
the failure of the owner or occupant to maintain a dwelling in a rodent- or
insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any
dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the
owner.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983; Ord. 229, passed - -)
§ 10-4-8 REQUIREMENTS FOR RENTED ROOMS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming, boarding, or lodging house, hotel
or motel, or shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming unit in
any rooming, boarding, or lodging house, hotel or motel, except in compliance
with the provision of every section of this chapter, except the provisions of
§§
10-4-5,
10-4-6, and
10-4-7.
   (B)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to an approved water and sewer system, and in good
working condition, shall be supplied for each ten persons or fraction thereof
residing within a rooming, boarding, or lodging house, hotel or motel,
including members of the operator’s family wherever they share the use of said
facilities. All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling so as
to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons
sharing the facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied with hot water at all times. No such facilities shall be located in a
basement.
   (C)   The operator of every rooming, boarding, or lodging house, hotel or
motel, shall change supplied bed linen and towels therein at least once a week,
and prior to the letting of any room to any occupant. The operator shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary
manner.
   (D)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level as required by the laws of the
state.
   (E)   The operator of every rooming, boarding, or lodging house, motel or
hotel, shall be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of a sanitary
condition in every other part of the rooming, boarding, or lodging house, hotel
or motel; and he or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of the entire premises where the entire structure or building is
leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 10-4-9 DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the determination and placarding of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be declared as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the Housing Trustee:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or of the public;
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or the public; or
      (3)   One which, because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary, or otherwise dangerous, to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit determined as unfit for human
habitation, and so designated and placarded by the Housing Trustee, shall be
vacated within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, as ordered by the
Housing Trustee.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been determined and placarded
as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from and such placard is removed by, the Housing
Trustee. The Housing Trustee shall remove such placard only when the defects
upon which the determination and placarding action were based have been
eliminated, and after the dwelling or dwelling unit has been inspected and been
found to comply in all respects with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been determined as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (C) above.
   (E)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the
determination and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human
habitation may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health, Safety, and Municipal Building Committee under the procedure set forth
in § 14-506; however, the request of a hearing does not in anyway stay
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 10-4-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500 per day for each day upon which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 223, passed 8-23-1983)
CHAPTER 5: RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
Section
   
10-5-1   Replacement of units
   
10-5-2   Replacement procedure; notice
   
10-5-3   Relocation assistance
   
10-5-4   Steps to minimize displacement
§ 10-5-1 REPLACEMENT OF UNITS.
   The village will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low-to-moderate
income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than as low-to-
moderate housing as a direct result of activities assisted with funds provided
under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 10-5-2 REPLACEMENT PROCEDURE; NOTICE.
   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the village will make public and submit to DCCA the following
information in writing:
   (A)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
   (B)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling units
by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a use
other than as low-to-moderate income dwelling units as a direct result of the
assisted activity;
   (C)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the demolition
or conversion;
   (D)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling units
by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement dwelling
units;
   (E)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
   (F)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low-to-moderate income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 10-5-3 RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
   The village will provide relocation assistance, as described in the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, to each low-to-moderate
income household displaced by the demolition of housing or by the conversion of
a low-to-moderate income dwelling to another use as a direct result of assisted
activities.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 10-5-4 STEPS TO MINIMIZE DISPLACEMENT.
   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under the
Act, the village will take the following steps to minimize the displacement of
persons from their homes.
   (A)   It will minimize or eliminate any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low-to-
moderate income persons.
   (B)   It will advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as opposed
to demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-16-1996)
CHAPTER 6: FENCES
Section
   
10-6-1   Definitions
   
10-6-2   General regulations
   
10-6-3   Permit requirement
   
10-6-4   Grandfather clause; replacement
   
10-6-99   Penalty
§ 10-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. Any structure serving as an enclosure, barrier, or boundary. While
FENCES are typically made of posts, boards, wire, or rails, as used in this
chapter, FENCE also includes any hedge or other plant growth which is planted
or maintained to serve as an enclosure, barrier, or boundary.
   HEIGHT. The height of a fence measured from the top of the fence to the
ground.
   LOT. A parcel of land, whether legally described or subdivided as one or
more lots or parts of lots, located within a single block and which is occupied
or intended for occupancy by one principal building or principal use.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of a lot; except that where any portion
of the lot extends into an abutting street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be
deemed to be the street or alley right-of-way line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is along a street. On a corner
lot, the street on which the main entrance of the structure is located forms
the FRONT LOT LINE. When a new principal structure is erected, the lot owner
may select which lot line will be the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is
parallel or approximately parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. The part of a lot which is between the front lot line and the
line of the principal structure, extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, REAR. The part of a lot which is between the rear lot line and the
line of the principal structure, extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of a lot which is between a side yard line and the
principal structure.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-16-2004)
§ 10-6-2 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person or other entity shall hereafter construct, erect, or maintain a
fence or section of fence unless it conforms to the following regulations.
   (A)   No fence shall be erected within 12 inches of a front lot line.
   (B)   Fences in front yards and any fence located in a side yard or rear
yard on a corner lot and adjacent to a public street shall be at least 50% open
and no more than 48 inches in height in an area zoned “R” under the village
zoning ordinance, and at least 50% open and no more than 72 inches in height in
an area zoned “C” under the village zoning ordinance; provided, however, that a
hedge fence or other plant growth need not be 50% open so long as it is no more
than 36 inches in height.
   (C)   Fences located in side yards which are ten feet or less from a side
lot line shall be at least 50% open and no more than 72 inches in height;
provided, however, that a hedge fence or other plant growth need not be 50%
open so long as it is no more than 36 inches in height. Fences located in side
yards and more than ten feet from the side lot line are not subject to a height
limitation and need not be open.
   (D)   Fences located in rear yards which are ten feet or less from any
property line shall be no more than 72 inches in height. Fences located in rear
yards which are more than ten feet from any property line are not subject to a
height limitation.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in divisions (B)
through (D) above, fences located in a side or rear yard which is adjacent to a
public street on a corner lot shall be subject to the front yard fence
requirements in division (A) above.
(Ord. 17-13, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
10-6-99
§ 10-6-3 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall erect a fence without a permit.
   (B)   The following procedures shall govern permits.
      (1)   An application for fence permit shall be submitted to the Village
Office together with a nonrefundable permit fee of $25. The office manager
shall give the application to the Trustee in charge of zoning and permits, and
shall give the application fee to the Treasurer.
      (2)   The application shall include a statement whether the fence is new
construction or a replacement fence and shall include:
         (a)   For new construction only, a survey of the lot, signed and
stamped by a registered land surveyor, showing the location of property pins,
and upon which is superimposed a diagram of the proposed location of the fence.
A survey need not be recent so long as it is accurate and property lines have
not changed since the survey was made; and
         (b)   A description of the fence, including materials, height, and a
statement whether the fence will be open and to what degree.
   (C)   The Trustee in charge of zoning and permits, or a village employee
designated by the Trustee, shall visit the site and verify the locations of
pins shown on the survey.
   (D)   The Trustee in charge of zoning and permits shall grant the permit if
the requirements of this chapter are met.
   (E)   The Trustee in charge of zoning and permits shall deny the permit if
the application or the fence described in the application do not meet the
requirements of this chapter. If the permit is denied, the applicant may
resubmit a corrected application within ten days of its initial denial without
paying an additional application fee. A subsequent denial of a resubmitted
application, or a denial which is not appealed within 30 days, shall be final.
   (F)   Denials of permits may be appealed to the Hearing Officer.
   (G)   The Trustee in charge of zoning and permits shall maintain records of
permit applications, grants, and denials in the Village Utility Office.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-16-2004; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see §
10-6-99
§ 10-6-4 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE; REPLACEMENT.
   No fence legally in existence on the date this chapter is adopted shall
become illegal solely by virtue of its failure to conform with the requirements
of this chapter; however, if any such nonconforming fence is removed or
destroyed to the extent of 50% of its value, it shall not be reconstructed
unless it conforms with this chapter.
(Ord. 17-13, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 10-6-99 PENALTY.
   Any person or other entity violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $200 per day for each violation. A
separate violation occurs on any day a nonconforming fence exists.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-16-2004)
CHAPTER 7: ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGNS
AND BILLBOARDS
Section
   
10-7-1   Definitions
   
10-7-2   Purpose
   
10-7-3   General construction, material, location, and performance standards
   
10-7-4   Billboard location restrictions
   
10-7-5   Freestanding on-premises advertising sign location restrictions
   
10-7-6   Principal use
   
10-7-7   Enforcement
   
10-7-8   Nuisance declared
   
10-7-99   Penalty
§ 10-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. 
      (1)   An object, device, display, sign, or structure, or part thereof,
displayed outdoors or visible from a public way, which is used to advertise,
identify, display, or direct or attract attention to an object, person,
institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location, or
to express a point of view, by any means, including words, letters, figures,
design, symbols, advertising, flags, fixtures, colors, illuminations, or
projected images, which are not substantially related to the primary economic
activity or use conducted on the zoning lot.
      (2)   BILLBOARDS do not include on-premises advertising signs, nor signs
temporarily placed in residential lawns by residents, owners, contractors, real
estate brokers or agents, or by or on behalf of political candidates or issues.
   BILLBOARD AREA. The facing of a billboard, including copy, insignia,
background, structural supports, and border and trim. The measurement shall be
determined by the smallest rectangle inclusive of all letters and images. The
structural supports shall be excluded if they do not constitute a major part of
the billboard or if the structure is not used to identify or attract attention
to the business or product.
   ILLUMINATED BILLBOARD. A billboard having its characters, letters, figures,
designs, or outlines illuminated by a source of artificial light.
   NORTH GRAND AVENUE CORRIDOR. An area including all land located within 100
feet of the north and south boundaries of the North Grand Avenue right-of-way
and within the corporate limits of the village.
   ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN. Commercial signage related to the business
conducted on the zoning lot.
   ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN, ATTACHED. An on-premises advertising sign that
is attached to the building in which the primary business is conducted on the
zoning lot.
   ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN, FREESTANDING. An on-premises advertising sign
that is not attached to the building in which the primary business is conducted
on the zoning lot.
   SPACING. Spacing of billboards shall be the minimum distance between outdoor
advertising billboard structures measured along the nearest edge of the
pavement between points directly opposite the billboards along each side of the
highway and shall apply to outdoor advertising billboard structures located on
both sides of the highway involved. SPACING shall be calculated with respect to
existing billboards whether or not the existing billboards are within the
corporate limits of the village.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The 1989 Village of Grandview Zoning Ordinance, Ord. 282,
as amended.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 10-7-2 PURPOSE.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter are established in order to
promote and protect generally public health, safety, comfort, prosperity, and
welfare and in order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
   (A)   To maintain and enhance the visual environment, and to preserve the
right of citizens to enjoy the village’s scenic beauty;
   (B)   To improve pedestrian and traffic safety; and
   (C)   To minimize the possible adverse effect of billboards on nearby public
and private property.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 10-7-3 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION, MATERIAL, LOCATION, AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Electrical requirements.
      (1)   The electrical components, connections, and installations of all
billboards and on-premises advertising signs shall conform to the current
edition of the National Electric Code.
      (2)   In no case shall electrical wiring be exposed to the view of, or
access by, the public.
   (B)   Illumination and movement.
      (1)   The light from every illuminated billboard and on-premises
advertising sign shall be shaded, shielded, or directed so that no ray
emanating from any light fixture shall directly impinge upon any residential
structure or public road, and all light visible from any residential structure
or public road is either reflected from, or diffused and filtered through, the
sign.
      (2)   Flashing billboards or on-premises advertising signs, flashing or
moving lights on billboards and on-premises advertising signs, and reflective
pennants are prohibited, except signs exhibiting time and temperature, date, or
other similar information.
   (C)   Location restrictions.
      (1)   Billboards and freestanding on-premises advertising signs shall be
located within the zoning lot in accordance with the applicable setback and
yard provisions of the zoning district in which such lot is located.
      (2)   Billboards and freestanding on-premises advertising signs shall not
be located on the public right-of-way, or affixed to or upon public property on
the public right-of-way, including, but not limited to any sidewalk, crosswalk,
curb, curbstone, street lamp post, hydrant, tree, shrub, tree stake or guard,
electric light or power, telephone, or telegraph system, fire alarm, lighting
system, public bridge, drinking fountain, trash receptacle, street sign, or
traffic sign.
   (D)   Maintenance. All billboards and on-premises advertising signs shall be
properly maintained, free of broken or missing parts, rust or oxidation, faded
or chipped paint, and similar conditions of disrepair.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10-7-99
§ 10-7-4 BILLBOARD LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Billboards are permitted only in areas of the village which meet all
of the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicable zoning classification is C;
      (2)   The billboard is located within the North Grand Avenue Corridor;
and
      (3)   The zoning lot on which the billboard is located borders directly
on the right-of-way of Illinois North Grand Avenue.
   (B)   Billboards located within the North Grand Avenue Corridor are subject
to the following additional regulations:
      (1)   Spacing shall be at least 1,000 feet;
      (2)   A billboard may have only one face in each direction. Faces may not
be stacked. No billboard shall have a total billboard area, including all faces
on both sides, exceeding 150 square feet;
      (3)   The top of a billboard may not be more than 30 feet above the
surface of the lot; and
      (4)   Each billboard shall be so designed and located such that its
primary audience is the traveling public on North Grand Avenue.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 10-7-5 FREESTANDING ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Freestanding on-premises advertising signs are permitted only in areas
of the village which meet all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicable zoning classification is C;
      (2)   The sign located within the North Grand Avenue Corridor; and
      (3)   The zoning lot on which the sign is located borders directly on the
right-of-way of Illinois North Grand Avenue.
   (B)   Freestanding on-premises advertising signs located within the North
Grand Avenue Corridor are subject to the following additional regulations:
      (1)   It may have only one face in each direction. Faces may not be
stacked. No freestanding on- premises advertising sign shall have a total
signage area, including all faces on both sides, exceeding 150 square feet;
      (2)   The top of the sign may not be more than 30 feet above the surface
of the lot; and
      (3)   A freestanding on-premises advertising signs shall be so designed
and located such that its primary audience is the traveling public on North
Grand Avenue.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 10-7-6 PRINCIPAL USE.
   A billboard is the principal use, and not an accessory use, of the lot on
which it is located. A freestanding on-premises advertising sign is an
accessory use of the lot on which it is located.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 10-7-7 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Permit requirement.
      (1)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to erect, or to structurally or electrically alter, any billboard or
freestanding on-premises advertising sign within the village unless a permit
therefor has been issued by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. A written application for such permit shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator, and the application shall contain, as a
minimum:
         (a)   A site plan;
         (b)   A plan of the proposed billboard or freestanding on-premises
advertising sign; and
         (c)   For billboards only:
            1.   A map showing spacing with respect to existing billboards;
            2.   Evidence of any federal or state permits which the applicant
has obtained with respect to the billboard; and
            3.   Proof that the applicant has a ground lease for the site or an
option for a ground lease.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by the owner of record of the
zoning lot on which the billboard or freestanding sign will be located. Prior
to or concurrently with the filing of such application, the applicant shall pay
to the village a permit fee in the amount of $100 for each sign, plus $1 for
each square foot of surface area of such sign in excess of 20 square feet. If
the application shows that the proposed billboard or freestanding on-premises
advertising sign would be in conformance with this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall grant the application and issue a permit. If the
application shows that the proposed billboard or freestanding on-premises
advertising sign would not be in conformance with this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall deny the application in writing. The Zoning Administrator
shall have five business days to grant or deny the permit application; his or
her decision shall be reviewable by the Hearing Officers in accordance with the
appeal provisions in the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. No billboard permit shall be issued by the
Zoning Administrator unless the applicant has obtained all necessary state or
federal permits, if any. The issuance of such state or federal permits shall
not entitle the applicant to issuance of a village permit, unless the applicant
is in compliance with all applicable village, state, and federal laws.
   (C)   Maintenance of billboards and freestanding on-premises advertising
signs. Billboards and freestanding on-premises advertising signs shall be
maintained in a safe condition. If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any
billboard has not been properly maintained, as evidenced by damaged, dented,
cracked, broken, or missing parts; the presence of rust or oxidation; faded or
chipped paint; or similar conditions of disrepair; he or she shall give written
notice of such violation to the owner or occupant of the premises upon which
such sign is located, stating the condition noted and providing not less than
15 days within which to remedy the deficiency, unless the billboard presents an
immediate threat to life or property, in which case the notice shall provide
that the deficiency shall be remedied immediately.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see §
10-7-99
§ 10-7-8 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The village hereby declares that any billboard or freestanding on-premises
advertising sign which does not conform to the requirements of this chapter is
a nuisance. In addition to any other remedies available to the village, the
village may sue the owner of any land on which such a billboard or sign is
located to abate such a nuisance.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 10-7-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who or which owns, leases (as lessor or
lessee), or controls a billboard or on-premises advertising sign which violates
any provision of this chapter, or owns a zoning lot on which such a billboard
or sign is located, or fails to remedy a deficiency as to which notice has been
sent by the Zoning Administrator, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$250 nor more than $750 for each violation. Each day a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 15-14, passed 7-7-2015)
CHAPTER 8: SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS
Section
   
10-8-1   Definitions
   
10-8-2   Permit requirement
   
10-8-3   Information required for permit
   
10-8-4   Permit fee
   
10-8-5   Rules for installation
   
10-8-6   Appeal of permit denial
   
10-8-99   Penalty
§ 10-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISH. The part of an antenna or receiving system that is shaped like a
saucer or dish.
   GROUNDING ROD. A metal pole permanently positioned in the earth to serve as
an electrical conductor through which current may pass safely and dissipate.
   GROUND-MOUNTED. Any satellite dish antenna which is not mounted on a roof or
is not attached to any structure, other than by a guy wire or other supporting
wire or cable.
   RECEIVER. A television set or a radio receiver.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. Include any or all of the following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna, or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive signals from satellites in earth
orbit or other extraterrestrial sources;
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal point of
the receiving component and which magnifies, stores, transfers, or transmits
signals to a receiver; and
      (3)   A coaxial cable which carries or transmits signals to a receiver.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 10-8-2 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall install a satellite dish antenna
without first obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986) Penalty, see §
10-8-99
§ 10-8-3 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The Trustee who chairs the standing Committee on Public Property and
Building Inspection shall be responsible for issuing permits, provided the
applicant for a permit submits an application which contains the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the parcel of land where
installation is proposed;
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant, if different from the owner;
      (3)   The name of the person or company to whom the permit should be
issued;
      (4)   A plot map of the parcel of land with the exact placement and
dimensions of the existing buildings and other structures;
      (5)   The exact location proposed for the satellite dish antenna; and
      (6)   An exact description of the type, make, and height of the satellite
dish antenna proposed.
   (B)   (1)   The information in the application must comply with all
requirements of this chapter before a permit will be issued.
      (2)   That Trustee may vary measurements or other terms of this chapter
by a factor of no more than 10%, so long as such variance is not material.
      (3)   Whether to grant such a variance is wholly within the discretion of
that Trustee.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 10-8-4 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a non-refundable $10 permit fee with the
completed application.
   (B)   The permit fee shall cover the costs of reviewing the permit
application and other costs in processing the application.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 10-8-5 RULES FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   No ground-mounted satellite dish antenna shall be installed or
constructed in a front yard or side yard, but shall instead be installed or
constructed to the rear of a residence or main structure on a parcel of land.
   (B)   No portion of a satellite dish antenna shall be installed or
constructed less than eight feet from any property line.
   (C)   No satellite dish antenna shall be linked to a receiver that is not
also located upon the same parcel of land.
   (D)   A ground-mounted satellite dish antenna shall not be over 12 feet
high.
   (E)   Wiring between a ground-mounted satellite dish antenna and a receiver
shall be placed at least four inches below ground in rigid conduit.
   (F)   Any driving motor for a satellite dish antenna shall be limited to 110
volts and be protected by appropriate guarding.
   (G)   Roof-mounted satellite dish antennas shall be mounted directly upon
the roof of the main or auxiliary structure on a parcel of land, and shall not
be attached, other than by guy wire, to chimneys, poles, towers, or trees.
   (H)   The dish of a roof-mounted satellite dish antenna shall not be more
than three feet in diameter.
   (I)   Any satellite dish antenna must be connected to a grounding rod.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986) Penalty, see §
10-8-99
§ 10-8-6 APPEAL OF PERMIT DENIAL.
   The denial of a permit to install or construct a satellite dish antenna may
be appealed to the Hearing Officer upon the same terms as those concerning
zoning variances.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 10-8-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500 for each violation. A
separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each day upon which a
violation occurs or continues to occur.
(Ord. 247, passed 5-13-1986)
CHAPTER 9: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
10-9-1   Definitions
   
10-9-2   Permits
   
10-9-3   Enclosure of swimming pool required
   
10-9-4   Pool location
   
10-9-5   Electrical requirements, GFI
   
10-9-6   Water supply requirements
   
10-9-7   Operations and maintenance
   
10-9-8   Application to existing pools
   
10-9-99   Penalty
§ 10-9-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE POOL. Any temporary or portable receptacle for water or an
artificial pool of water having a depth of less than 24 inches, intended for
the purpose of immersion or partial immersion of human beings.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any artificial basin of water which is constructed, modified,
improved, installed, or inflated for the purpose of the immersion or partial
immersion of human beings, and which has a depth at any point of more than 24
inches covering more than 16 square feet or contains or is capable of
containing more than 200 gallons of water, including all appurtenances and
equipment constructed, installed, or maintained in or above the ground outside
of the dwelling.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 10-9-2 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement, or alteration of a swimming pool within the village without a
permit. Each application for a permit shall include a Pool Site Plan, a set of
plans and drawings which shall be drawn to scale. All distances and dimensions
shall be accurately figured and drawings shall be explicit and complete.
   (B)   A Pool Site Plan shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of pool shape and size;
      (2)   Location of pool in reference to property lines, principal
building, and accessory structures;
      (3)   Locations and heights of enclosure fences;
      (4)   Location of overhead power lines and distance to pool; and
      (5)   Location of electrical and pump/filter.
   (C)   A permit shall not be required for a juvenile pool.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013) Penalty, see §
10-9-99
§ 10-9-3 ENCLOSURE OF SWIMMING POOL REQUIRED.
   All pools must have an adequate enclosure either surrounding the property or
pool area sufficient to make such body of water inaccessible to small children.
   (A)   A fence shall be erected and maintained around every swimming pool,
except juvenile pools, which are exempted. A dwelling house or accessory
building may be used as part of this enclosure.
   (B)   Any swimming pool, except that having a walkway or deck area greater
than 30 inches in height from the ground with integral guards or rails and a
means of egress which can be removed when the pool is not in use, shall be
completely enclosed by a protective wall, fence, or other effective barrier.
The entire wall, fence, or barrier, including door and gates, shall be a
minimum of four and a maximum of six feet in height measured both on the inside
and outside, and shall not provide ready footing for climbing. The height of
any opening under the bottom of the wall, fence, or barrier shall not exceed
three inches. The openings in any wall, fence, or barrier shall not exceed
three inches in width.
   (C)   Each entrance to the wall, fence, or barrier for a swimming pool shall
be equipped with a door or gate that is self-closing and self-latching with a
closure or latch installed not lower than 42 inches from the bottom of the door
or gate.
   (D)   Drive-in or walk-in type gates must have a provision in its latch for
a padlock or the gate shall be provided with other approved locking facilities.
All gates or doors opening through this enclosure shall be capable of being
securely fastened at all times when not in actual use.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 10-9-4 POOL LOCATION.
   (A)   Swimming pools shall be permitted in single-family residential zones
only.
   (B)   All swimming pools shall be at least six feet from lot lines with no
projection into or over easements.
   (C)   All swimming pools shall be located a minimum of ten feet horizontally
from all overhead power carrying wires.
   (D)   Swimming pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in any
front yard.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 10-9-5 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS, GFI.
   (A)   All electrical equipment including power supply cords used with all
pools shall be protected by ground fault circuit interrupters.
   (B)   (1)   A ground fault circuit interrupter (GFI) protected receptacle
shall be installed no closer than five feet nor farther than 20 feet from
outside wall of pool.
      (2)   No other receptacles shall be located within ten feet of pool
unless separated by a barrier.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013) Penalty, see §
10-9-99
§ 10-9-6 WATER SUPPLY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When filling the pool, either a vacuum breaker or suitable backflow
prevention device shall be installed on the outside faucet, or an air gap shall
be maintained between the hose outlet water flow and the surface of the pool
water.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to juvenile pools.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 10-9-7 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At the end of the swimming season, or whenever the pool is not in
active use, the pool water shall be shall be treated, altered, maintained, or
drained so as to prevent the development of unsanitary conditions.
   (B)   Any swimming pool or juvenile pool which contains stagnant water which
has become or is likely to become foul, putrid, offensive, or detrimental to
the health and comfort of persons residing in the vicinity thereof, or which
presents an opportunity for mosquitos to breed, is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013) Penalty, see §
10-9-99
§ 10-9-8 APPLICATION TO EXISTING POOLS.
   All existing residential swimming pools covered by this chapter which do not
conform to the regulations listed above shall be made to conform by April 1,
2014. An existing wall, fence, or other barrier which meets the requirements of
this chapter shall be deemed to be in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 10-9-99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $100 nor more than $750. Any other violation of the same
provision or another provision, by any person after having been given verbal or
written notice of violation, shall constitute and be punishable as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 10-1-2013)
CHAPTER 10: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
   
10-10-1   Purpose
   
10-10-2   Definitions
   
10-10-3   Permit requirements
   
10-10-4   Permit application
   
10-10-5   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
10-10-6   Review of proposed development
   
10-10-7   Review of permit application
   
10-10-8   Reviews of subdivision proposals
   
10-10-9   Water supply systems
   
10-10-10   Sanitary sewage and waste disposal systems
   
10-10-11   Variances
   
10-10-12   Disclaimer of liability
   
10-10-99   Penalty
§ 10-10-1 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12, 65 ILCS 5/11-30-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-30-8,
and 65 ILCS 5/11-31-2 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   (D)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (E)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (F)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation of, or the runoff of surface water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see FLOOD).
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally above ground. The
term includes RVs and travel trailers on site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either: any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-3 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development activity in an area known to flood without first
obtaining a development permit from the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10-10-99
§ 10-10-4 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit the applicant must first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-5 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general administration
of this chapter and ensure that all development activities under the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible for receiving applications and examining the
plans and specifications for the application, the Zoning Administrator shall
require any additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-6 REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies
from which approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (B)   If the development is proposed for a channel or adjacent area of a
stream draining one square mile or more, the applicant must first secure a
permit from the state’s Division of Water Resources or a letter stating “Permit
Not Required”.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-7 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall review all permit applications to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvements (including the placement of prefabricated buildings
and manufactured homes) shall:
   (A)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (C)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
   (D)   Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-8 REVIEWS OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably
safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood-prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood- prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazards.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-9 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall require within flood-prone areas new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-10 SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall require within flood-prone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into flood waters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Hearing Officer
for a variance. The Hearing Officer shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board. The Village
Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards that would
lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 10-10-12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 10-10-99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $25 nor more than two-hundred dollars ($250). A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-1-2014)
TITLE 11: ZONING
   Chapter
      
1.   INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE; CONFLICTS
      
2.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
3.   ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
      
4.   “A” RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
5.   “C” COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
      
6.   NON-CONFORMITIES
      
7.   ADDITIONAL ZONING REGULATIONS
      
8.   ADULT USES
CHAPTER 1: INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE; CONFLICTS
Section
   
11-1-1   Rules and definitions
   
11-1-2   Separability
§ 11-1-1 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular
number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word BUILDING
shall include the word STRUCTURE and the word SHALL is mandatory and not
directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or the
main use of the premises. An accessory use is one which is incidental the main
use of the premises including a private garage.
      ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords a secondary means
of access to property abutting thereon.
      BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one-half of its height
below grade. A BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of
height regulation.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property. When a
structure is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the
ground up, each part is deemed a separate BUILDING.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or
the mean height level between eaves and ridge, for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
      BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein goods,
merchandise, or other property is exhibited or sold, or which occupies time,
attention, labor, or materials, or where services are offered for compensation.
      CAR WASH. Any building or area constructed for the purpose of providing
stalls, spaces, or other areas for washing and cleaning of motor vehicles by
the general public.
      CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below grade. A
CELLAR is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurement.
      DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. A business which accommodates patrons’ motor
vehicles, in which patrons may be served or may use goods or merchandise sold
by such business.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, but not hotels, motels,
nursing homes, tourist homes, mobile homes, trailers, or tents, which is
designed or used exclusively for residential purposes.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed as or consisting of more than two
dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed as or consisting of one
dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed as or consisting of two
dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms constituting all or part of a structure,
which are arranged, designed, used, or intended exclusively as living quarters
for one family, and which includes complete kitchen and bathroom facilities,
permanently installed and not shared with another dwelling unit.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth,
adoption, or marriage; but no unrelated group consisting of more than five
persons shall be considered a family.
      FENCE. A barrier intended to prevent ingress or egress, to mark a
boundary, or to create a sense of privacy or security.
      FILLING STATION. Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale,
or offering for sale at retail or wholesale of any motor vehicle fuels or oils.
      FRONTAGE. All property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street, and the dead end of the street.
      GARAGE, CLASS II. Any building or premises, except those used as a
private garage, used for equipping, repairing, leasing, selling, or storing
motor vehicles.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building
housing motor vehicles which are the property of and for the private use of the
occupants of the lot on which the private garage is located. Not more than one
of the vehicles may be a commercial vehicle of more than three tons capacity.
An open-sided garage, commonly known as a carport, shall be considered a
PRIVATE GARAGE for purposes of this title.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation, profession, avocation, or hobby, whether
or not for profit, carried on in a residential district.
      HOTEL. A building containing lodging rooms, a general kitchen and dining
room, a common entrance lobby, and halls, stairways, or elevators, where each
lodging room does not have a doorway opening to the outdoors, in which lodging
is provided and offered to the public for compensation, and which is open to
transient guests, in contradistinction to a boarding house or lodging house.
      INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-
profit establishment for public use.
      LODGING HOUSE. A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three or more, but not exceeding 12 individuals, not open
to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels or motels open to
transients. A BOARDING HOUSE shall be synonymous with a LODGING HOUSE.
      LOT. A parcel of land, whether as described on a plat of subdivision or
further divided, which is occupied or intended for occupancy by one principal
building or one principal use permitted in this title, together with accessory
buildings, and together with yards and parking spaces required by this title,
and having at least 49 feet of frontage upon a street.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two streets at their intersection.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
      LOT LINE. The dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and
the contiguous street, alley, or adjacent lots, tracts, or parcels of land. A
STREET LINE shall be synonymous with a FRONT LOT LINE.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling for one or more persons.
The term MOBILE HOME shall include manufactured homes constructed after June
30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. MOBILE HOMES are permitted only
in a mobile home parks licensed by the State of Illinois.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory-built home which is subject to regulation by the
state’s Department of Public Health and not built on a permanent chassis. By
law, a MODULAR HOME must have affixed to it a yellow seal in the shape of the
State of Illinois on the electrical panel box or a similar seal of the State of
Indiana. A MODULAR HOME on a permanent perimeter foundation extending below the
frost depth qualifies as a single-family structure in any zone in which single-
family structures are allowed. Should the state’s Department of Public Health
approve a factory-built home with a permanent chassis, such a home is not
considered a MODULAR HOME under this title, but rather is considered a MOBILE
HOME under this title.
      MOTEL. A building containing lodging rooms, where each lodging room has a
doorway opening to the outdoors, in which lodging is provided and offered to
the public for compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a boarding house or lodging house.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use,
lawful at the time of passage of the zoning ordinance codified herein or any
amendment thereto, which does not conform after the passage of the zoning
ordinance or amendment thereto with the use regulations of the district in
which it is situated.
      PARKING SPACE. A durably surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in
an accessory building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard
automobile, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of
an automobile. Any PARKING SPACE designated for use by handicapped motorists
shall be sized in accordance with standards promulgated by the state’s
Department of Transportation.
      SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Businesses or offices wherein services are
offered for compensation, and where the sale of goods or merchandise are
incidental to the main activity.
      SIGNS, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, goods,
merchandise, commodity, or service not sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is erected or in the structure upon which it is affixed.
      STORY. The portion of a building other than a cellar or basement,
included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next
above it or, if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor
and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall space not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than 60% of the floor area is
finished off for use.
      STREET. All property used, dedicated, or intended for public or private
street or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
      STREET LINE. The front lot line, dividing a lot, tract, or parcel of land
and contiguous property used, dedicated, or intended for use as a street.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, that use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including, but not limited to signs, private garages,
sheds, decks, patios, and canopies.
      TRAILERS. A vehicle or portable structure built on a chassis, designed as
a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use, and customarily
towed behind a motor vehicle. A self-propelled trailer, commonly called a motor
home, shall be considered a TRAILER for purposes of this title. A camper,
customarily designed for mounting upon the bed of a pick-up truck, shall also
be considered a TRAILER for purposes of this title.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by a portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of the front yard, or the depth of a rear
yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line, as platted, and the
main building shall be used.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projection thereof other than the projection of
the usual steps.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending cross the rear of a lot, measured between
the side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps.
On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall be considered as parallel to the street
upon which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior
lots, the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from
the front yard.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the
lots and extending from the front line to the rear yard line.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 98-26, passed 9-15-1998)
§ 11-1-2 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any provision of this title be declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
invalid, nor shall such decision affect the application of such provision to
any other property or structure not specifically included in such court’s
decision.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
11-2-1   Certificate of occupancy
   
11-2-2   Appeals
   
11-2-3   Building Inspector
   
11-2-4   Hearing Officer
   
11-2-5   Duties and authority
   
11-2-6   Hearings before hearing officer
   
11-2-7   Records
   
11-2-8   Decisions
   
11-2-9   Variations in application of regulations
   
11-2-10   Fees
   
11-2-11   Amendments
 
   
11-2-99   Penalty
§ 11-2-1 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   (1)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required for all non-
conforming uses of land or buildings existing after the passage of this title,
or any amendment thereto. Application for such certificate of occupancy for
non-conforming uses shall be filed with the Village Clerk by the owner or
occupant of the land or building occupied by non-conforming use within one year
from the effective date of this title, or amendment thereto. It shall be the
duty of the Building Inspector to issue a certificate of occupancy for such
non-conforming uses.
      (2)   Any non-conforming use for which an occupancy permit has not been
obtained in conformity with the requirements of this section shall be presumed
to be operating in violation of this title and such use shall thereupon be
prohibited and abated.
   (B)   (1)   Subsequent to the effective date of this title, no change in the
use of land nor any change of use of an existing building shall be made, nor
shall any new building be occupied for any purpose, until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Inspector. Every certificate of
occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of
this title.
      (2)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the erection,
construction, or alteration, based on a valid building permit, has been
completed, inspected, and approved by the Building Inspector, and no building
shall be occupied until such certificate is issued.
      (3)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in
the office of the Village Clerk and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having proprietary or tenancy interest in land or in a building affected
by such certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-2-2 APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals from and review of any order, requirement, decision, or
determination, made by the Building Inspector in enforcing the provisions of
this title, shall be made to the Hearing Officer. Any appeal from the failure
by the Building Inspector to act shall also be made to the Hearing Officer.
Such appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved or by an officer or department
or the President and Board of Trustees of the village. Failure of the Building
Inspector to act within 30 days after application to the inspector shall be
considered a determination adverse to the applicant, unless the applicant is in
default to the village. A default occurs when an applicant owes money to the
village or is being prosecuted for violation of a village ordinance, in which
case, the Building Inspector or the Hearing Officer shall defer action until
such money is paid or such prosecution completed.
   (B)   Notices of appeal from decisions of the Building Inspector shall be
filed within 20 days from such decision or, if no decision has been made,
within 30 days of application to the Building Inspector. Notices of appeal
shall be filed with the Building Inspector and/or the Village Clerk and shall
specify the grounds of appeal. Such notice shall be delivered by the Building
Inspector and/or Village Clerk to the Hearing Officer, together with all papers
constituting the record in such case.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-3 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   All questions of the application of the terms of this title shall first be
directed to the trustee who chairs the standing Committee on Public Property
and Building Inspection, who shall act as the Building Inspector. It shall be
the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce this title and amendments
thereto. Appeals from the Building Inspector shall be taken to the Hearing
Officer.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-4 HEARING OFFICER.
   The position of Hearing Officer is hereby established in accordance with
Illinois law. See 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.1. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board pursuant to an
employment agreement. The Hearing Officer shall hold office from the date of
appointment until a successor has been selected and is under contract.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-01, passed 3-5-2024; Ord. 24-19, passed
12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-5 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   The hearing officer the authority to: (i) conduct any public hearing - other
than a public hearing provided for in Section 65 ILCS 5/11-13-2 - required to
be held under 65 ILCS 5/11-13 in connection with applications for any special
use, variation, amendment or other change or modification in any ordinance of
the municipality adopted pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-13; and (ii) hear and decide
appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by an administrative official charged with the enforcement of any ordinance
adopted pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-13.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-6 HEARINGS BEFORE HEARING OFFICER.
   All meetings of the Hearing Officer shall be held at such times as he may
determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Hearing Officer may
adopt rules of meeting procedures consistent with this Code and the applicable
Illinois Compiled Statutes. The Hearing Officer may administer oaths and compel
the attendance of witnesses.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-7 RECORDS.
   The secretary for the Hearing Officer shall keep minutes of the proceedings
and examinations. These minutes shall indicate any official action taken. A
copy of every rule, variance, order or recommendation of the Hearing Officer
shall be filed immediately with the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-02, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 24-19, passed
12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-8 DECISIONS.
   The approval of the Hearing Officer shall be necessary to recommend a
variance, a conditional use permit or an amendment to the Village Board. The
recommendation of the Hearing Officer shall be by written letter and shall
contain its findings of fact. A copy shall be sent to the Village Board.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-9 VARIATIONS IN APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The following rules shall govern the practice in zoning cases before the
Board of Trustees and Board of Appeals whenever a variation in the application
of the regulations contained in this title or amendments thereto is proposed.
   (A)   Only the owner of record of a lot or the holder of a contract to
purchase a lot may apply for a variation respecting such lot. If the applicant
is a holder of a valid contract, a copy of the contract shall be included with
the variance application.
   (B)   The applicant for a variation shall file in triplicate with the
village officer or employee designated to handle the administration of zoning
cases, Zoning Administrator, a petition describing the variation sought to be
made. The petition shall be on a form prescribed by the Zoning Administrator
and shall include a map drawn to scale showing ail setbacks, locations, and
dimensions of buildings on the lot, including but not limited to the variation
in question.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer one copy of the application for
variation to the Board of Trustees and one copy to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public hearing regarding
the application for a variation. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear
evidence; it shall electronically record the proceedings, although any
applicant may provide and pay for a certified shorthand reporter and a
transcript thereof: all evidence shall be under oath; and the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall make its recommendation to the Village Board regarding the
application. The recommendation shall be in writing and it shall include
specific factual findings supporting specific factual conclusions that:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return of
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by this title;
      (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
      (3)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. At any such hearing, the zoning applicant and any citizen of
the village may appear and be heard; however, the Zoning Board of Appeals may,
if there are numerous opponents, limit the presentation of cumulative testimony
by multiple opponents.
   (E)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall, within 21 days after the public
hearing, transmit to the Village Board a copy of the application, the
transcript and the Zoning Board of Appeals’ findings and conclusions, together
with the Zoning Board’s recommendation, to the Village Board. The Village Board
shall act upon the application at its next regularly-scheduled meeting which is
at least five days after the Zoning Board of Appeals transmits its findings and
recommendations to the Village Board. The Village Board is not bound in any way
by the findings and recommendations of the Zoning Board and is free to examine
the minutes, the tape recording, or the transcript of the hearing, if any, and
the application and all exhibits thereto, for itself in determining whether or
not to grant the variation. Variations shall be granted by the Village Board
only by ordinance.
   (F)   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be given in each case by publishing a notice thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village not more than 30 days nor
fewer than 15 days before the hearing thereon. The notice shall contain the
particular location for which the variation is requested as well as a brief
description of the proposed variation. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for causing such notice to be published.
   (G)   The applicant shall be responsible for paying an application fee of
$350 and the cost of publication. The application fee shall accompany the
application, and the cost of publication shall be paid to the village prior to
action on the variance application by the Village Board.
   (H)   A variation shall lapse if a building permit incorporating the
variation is not submitted and granted, and in the case of a use variance, if
the use is not commenced, within six months of the date the variation is
granted by the Village Board. A variation shall lapse immediately if the
variation is discontinued.
   (I)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in making its recommendation to the
Village Board, and the Village Board, in acting on the variance application,
may take into consideration the extent to which the applicant has established
the following by the evidence:
      (1)   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of regulations were to be carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the petition for variance is based would
not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
      (3)   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively on a desire
to make more money out of the property;
      (4)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is not being created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in
which the property is located; and
      (6)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially decrease the danger of fire, or
otherwise endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   (J)   The Village Board may require such conditions and restrictions upon
the premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the injurious effect
of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood, and to implement the
general purpose and intent of this title.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 7-7-2015)The Zoning Administrator shall refer one copy of
the application for variation to the Board of Trustees and one copy to the
Hearing Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall conduct a public hearing regarding the
application for a variation. The Hearing Officer shall hear evidence; it shall
electronically record the proceedings, although any applicant may provide and
pay for a certified shorthand reporter and a transcript thereof: all evidence
shall be under oath; and the Hearing Officer shall make its recommendation to
the Village Board regarding the application. The recommendation shall be in
writing and it shall include specific factual findings supporting specific
factual conclusions that:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return of
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by this title;
      (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
      (3)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. At any such hearing, the zoning applicant and any citizen of
the village may appear and be heard; however, the Hearing Officer may, if there
are numerous opponents, limit the presentation of cumulative testimony by
multiple opponents.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall, within 21 days after the public hearing,
transmit to the Village Board a copy of the application, the transcript and the
Hearing Officer findings and conclusions, together with the Hearing Officer's
recommendation, to the Village Board. The Village Board shall act upon the
application at its next regularly-scheduled meeting which is at least five days
after the Hearing Officer transmits its findings and recommendations to the
Village Board. The Village Board is not bound in any way by the findings and
recommendations of the Hearing Officer and is free to examine the minutes, the
tape recording, or the transcript of the hearing, if any, and the application
and all exhibits thereto, for itself in determining whether or not to grant the
variation. Variations shall be granted by the Village Board only by ordinance.
   (F)   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing of the Hearing
Officer shall be given in each case by publishing a notice thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village not more than 30 days nor
fewer than 15 days before the hearing thereon. The notice shall contain the
particular location for which the variation is requested as well as a brief
description of the proposed variation. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for causing such notice to be published.
   (G)   The applicant shall be responsible for paying an application fee of
$350 and the cost of publication. The application fee shall accompany the
application, and the cost of publication shall be paid to the village prior to
action on the variance application by the Village Board.
   (H)   A variation shall lapse if a building permit incorporating the
variation is not submitted and granted, and in the case of a use variance, if
the use is not commenced, within six months of the date the variation is
granted by the Village Board. A variation shall lapse immediately if the
variation is discontinued.
   (I)   The Hearing Officer, in making its recommendation to the Village
Board, and the Village Board, in acting on the variance application, may take
into consideration the extent to which the applicant has established the
following by the evidence:
      (1)   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of regulations were to be carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the petition for variance is based would
not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
      (3)   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively on a desire
to make more money out of the property;
      (4)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is not being created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in
which the property is located; and
      (6)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially decrease the danger of fire, or
otherwise endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   (J)   The Village Board may require such conditions and restrictions upon
the premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the injurious effect
of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood, and to implement the
general purpose and intent of this title.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 7-7-2015; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-10 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for hearing appeals from decisions of the Building Inspector,
or for a special use permit, or for variations of the terms of the zoning
ordinance by the Hearing Officer shall be $125, together with a deposit of $25,
to cover the cost of a court reporter’s services to record and transcribe
proceedings before the Hearing Officer. The deposit shall be waived if the
applicant agrees to the making a tape recording of the proceedings instead of
utilizing the services of a court reporter. These fees shall be paid to the
Village Clerk and the receipt of the Clerk shall be made a any hearing record.
If a court reporter is used, any balance over the actual charges made by the
court reporter shall be refunded to the applicant. Likewise, the applicant
shall be responsible for payment of any charges in excess of $25.
   (B)   Each member of the Hearing Officer, except the Chairperson, shall
receive a fee of $15 for attendance at each hearing he or she attends. The
Chairperson shall receive a fee of $25 for attendance at such hearing he or she
attends.
(Ord. 312, passed 10-13-1992; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-11 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this title and the districts shown on the
zoning map shall be amended only in accordance with the requirements of 65 ILCS
5/11-13-14. Procedurally, amendments shall be handled in the same fashion as
applications for variances. Application shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on a form prescribed by the Zoning Administrator and the
application fee shall also be $350, and the applicant shall be responsible for
cost of publication as in the case of variance requests. A public hearing shall
be conducted by the Hearing Officer in the same fashion as for variances; the
Hearing Officer shall prepare and transmit to the Village Board its findings
and recommendation along with the recording or any transcript of any such
hearings; and all amendments shall be only by ordinance. The findings and
recommendations shall not be based on the standards of § 15-087, but rather
shall be based on the following considerations:
      (1)   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
      (2)   The extent to which property values are diminished by the
particular zoning restrictions;
      (3)   The extent to which the destruction of property values of the
plaintiff promotes the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the
public;
      (4)   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed
upon the individual property owner;
      (5)   The suitability of the property for the zoned purpose;
      (6)   The length of time that property has been vacant as zoned
considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of
the subject property;
      (7)   The public need for the proposed use; and
      (8)   The thoroughness with which the Village Board had planned and zoned
its land use.
   (B)   In the case of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed
with the Village Clerk, the amendment shall not be passed, except by a
favorable vote of two-thirds of the Trustees of the village then holding
office. In such cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the
protestor or protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy
upon the applicant’s attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 7-7-2015; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-2-99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this title shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
of violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
CHAPTER 3: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
Section
   
11-3-1   Purpose of districts
   
11-3-2   Zoning map
   
11-3-3   Annexations
   
11-3-4   Vacations
   
11-3-5   Application of district regulations
§ 11-3-1 PURPOSE OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the locations of trades,
industries, and the location of buildings designated for specified uses, to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of the lot
areas, and to regulate and determine the areas of yards, courts, and other open
spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the village is hereby divided
into districts, of which there shall be two in number, known as “A” Residential
District and “C” Commercial District.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-3-2 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map which is made a
part of this title, which map is designated as the “zoning map”. The zoning map
and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part
of this title and have the same force and effect as if the zoning map and all
the notations, references, and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described herein, the original of which zoning map is properly
attested and is on file with Village Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Engineer has presented an amended zoning map for the
village, incorporating all changes since the publication of the last zoning
map. The Village Board, having reviewed that map, a copy of which is attached
hereto the ordinance incorporated herein, hereby approves the map.
      (2)   The Clerk is authorized and directed to make this map available on
the village website and in the village office.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 21-03, passed 3-2-2021)
§ 11-3-3 ANNEXATIONS.
   All property hereafter annexed to the village shall be classified in the “A”
Residential District until such classification is changed by amendment to this
title or publication of a new zoning map in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-13-19.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-3-4 VACATIONS.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated, the zoning
district adjoining each side of such street, alley, or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of such a vacation, and all area included
in the vacation shall then be subject to all appropriate regulations of the
extended districts.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-3-5 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located;
   (B)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered, to exceed the height limit for the district in which the
building is located;
   (C)   No building shall be-erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located;
   (D)   The minimum yards, off-street parking spaces, and other open spaces,
including lot area per family, required by this title for each and every
building existing at the time of passage of this title or for any building
hereafter erected shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard, parking
spaces, or open space requirements for any other building; and
   (E)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on at least one lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be
more than one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
CHAPTER 4: “A” RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
11-4-1   Application
   
11-4-2   Accepted uses
   
11-4-3   Height regulations
   
11-4-4   Area regulations
   
11-4-5   Home occupations
§ 11-4-1 APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter, inclusive, or as set forth
elsewhere in this title when referred to in such sections, are the district
regulations in the “A” Residential District.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-4-2 ACCEPTED USES.
   In the “A” Residential District, no building or premises shall be used and
no building shall hereafter be erected or altered except for one or more of the
following purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings (trailers and mobile homes are not considered
to be dwellings);
   (B)   Two-family dwellings;
   (C)   Churches, but only when off street parking space is provided upon the
lot, or within 200 feet thereof, which space is adequate to accommodate one car
for every eight persons for which seating is provided in the main auditorium of
the church;
   (D)   Publicly owned buildings including schools, police or fire stations,
libraries, community centers, or other public buildings, except township,
county, state, or federal offices;
   (E)   Parks or playgrounds; and
   (F)   Accessory buildings including private garages and accessory uses
customarily incident to the above uses, not involving the conduct of a
business. Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall
be located not less than 60 feet from the front lot line. Accessory buildings
shall also include temporary signs, pertaining to the lease or sale of and/or a
building, not exceeding ten square feet in area.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-4-3 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   In the “A” Residential District, no building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or shall exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-4-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   In the “A” Residential District, the minimum dimensions of yards, the
maximum percentage of lot occupancy, and minimum lot area per family shall be
as follows.
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on the front of each building
having a depth of not less than 25 feet; provided, however that where the
average depth of the front yard fronting on any one side of the street within a
distance of 300 feet on each side of a particular lot exceeds or is less than
25 feet, the depth of the front yard required under this title for such a lot
shall be such average depth. When the street is curved the line shall follow
the curve rather than to be a straight line.
   (B)   Corner lot - double frontage. No accessory building shall be
constructed nearer than ten feet to the side lot line facing the side street on
a corner lot having a double frontage.
   (C)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a building or an
accessory building having a width of not less than 8% of the width of the lot
but in no instance shall the side yard be less than three feet and in no
instance shall more than a ten-foot side yard be required except as provided
for a corner lot - double frontage in this section, division (B) above.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth or not less than
25 feet or 16.66% of the depth of the lot, whichever is smaller.
   (E)   Intensity of use. Every lot or tract of land upon which a building is
erected shall have an area of not less than 4,000 square feet and an average
depth of not less than 75 feet.
   (F)   Minimum size of dwelling unit. Every dwelling unit constructed shall
have not less than 1,100 square feet of floor area.
   (G)   Off street parking regulations. Whenever any structure or building is
altered or erected on premises used for one of the purposes permitted in this
district, there shall be provided off street parking spaces in the ratio of not
less than two parking spaces for each family or dwelling unit.
   (H)   Ramps. The addition of a ramp for access by the disabled to a
residence shall not create a violation of the area requirements of this
section. Plans for the addition of a ramp allowing for access by the disabled
should be presented to the Village President or the Trustee assigned to
administer building permits, prior to the construction of the ramp.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 05, passed 8-6-2019)
§ 11-4-5 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of a home occupation shall register with the
Board of Trustees, on forms provided for that purpose, which shall serve as a
license for operation in conformance with the limitations in this title.
   (B)   All home occupations shall be conducted in accordance with the
following limitations:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing in such
dwelling unit shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for a home occupation shall be clearly
incidental to and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of a home occupation;
      (3)   There shall be no signs or display or other change in the outside
appearance of the building or premises, or other visible evidence of the
conduct of a home occupation;
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any two-family dwelling or
multiple dwelling, in any accessory building, or outdoors, and no materials
shall be stored outdoors;
      (5)   There shall be no sales of goods or merchandise in a home
occupation, except for sales that are clearly incidental to conduct of a home
occupation;
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by a home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by a home occupation shall be met off street and
other than in a required front yard; and
      (7)   The conduct of a home occupation shall not generate noise, airborne
debris, odors, fumes, electrical interference, vibrations, or any other
condition detrimental to adjacent dwelling units or lots.
   (C)   Any home occupation not registered within 90 days of commencement or
operated in violation of such limitations shall be subject to license
revocation after notice and hearing before the Board of Trustees, and to the
imposition of a fine as set forth in this title.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
CHAPTER 5: “C” COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
11-5-1   Application
   
11-5-2   Accepted uses
   
11-5-3   Off street parking
   
11-5-4   Height regulations
   
11-5-5   Area regulations
   
11-5-6   Intensity of use
   
11-5-7   Liquor sales regulations
   
11-5-8   Special use permits
§ 11-5-1 APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter, inclusive, or as set forth
elsewhere in this title when referred to in such sections, are the district
regulations in the “C” Commercial District.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-5-2 ACCEPTED USES.
   In the “C” Commercial District, no structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered except for one or more of the following purposes.
Adult uses are permitted pursuant to a permit granted in accordance with
Chapter 8 of this title
Adult uses are permitted pursuant to a permit granted in accordance with
Chapter 8 of this title
Animal kennels*
Antique shops
Any use permitted in the “A” Residential District
Archery ranges*
Art galleries
Art supply stores
Bakeries
Barber shops
Beauty shops
Bicycle shops
Blueprint shop
Boarding houses
Boat sales and repairs
Book stores
Bowling alleys
Building material sales
Buildings or offices for a township, county, state, or federal agency
Business offices
Business schools
Cafes
Camera and photography shops
Candy stores
Cannabis dispensaries registered with the State of Illinois
Car washes
Carpet and rug stores
Child day care centers
China and glassware stores
Clothing stores
Convenience stores
Craft shops
Delicatessens
Dental clinics
Dental offices
Department stores
Doughnut shops
Drug stores
Dry cleaning shops
Dry goods stores
Electric substations
Electricians’ shops
Emergency health care centers
Employment agencies
Fast food restaurants, including drive-in establishments
Financial institutions
Florist shops
Food stores
Furniture stores
Garden supply and seed stores
Gas regulator stations
Gift shops
Greenhouses
Grocery stores
Gymnasiums
Hardware stores
Health and exercise clubs
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning shops
Hobby shops
Hospitals
Hotels
Household appliance stores
Ice cream shops
Institutions
Insurance offices
Interior design shops
Jewelry and watch shops
Labor union offices
Laboratories, medical and dental
Laundromats
Leather and luggage shops
Liquor stores
Loan companies
Locksmith shops
Lodging houses
Meat, fish, and poultry markets
Medical clinics
Medical offices
Motels
Motor vehicle equipment stores
Multiple dwelling
Music shops
Newspaper offices
Newsstands
Nursery schools
Nursing homes
Office supply stores
Optical offices
Paint and wallpaper shops
Pet shops*
Pharmacies
Photography studios
Pistol and rifle ranges*
Plant nurseries
Plumbing shops
Postal substations
Printing and photocopying shops
Professional offices
Radio and television broadcasting stations
Restaurants
School supply stores
Shoe shops
Sporting goods stores
Stationery stores
Tailor shops
Taverns
Theaters, indoor
Toy stores
Travel agencies
Upholstery shops
Variety stores
Veterinary clinics or hospitals*
Videotape shops
*Uses followed by an asterisk are permitted so long as they are in completely
enclosed buildings.
 
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007; Ord. 16-06, passed
7-5-2016)
§ 11-5-3 OFF STREET PARKING.
   In the “C” Commercial District, whenever a structure is erected, used, or
altered for one of the purposes permitted in this district, there shall be
provided parking spaces in the ratio of not less than one parking space for
each 100 square feet of floor space in the building which is used for
commercial purposes and except that any restaurant or establishment whose
primary use is to serve food or drinks to patrons either in their cars or in
the building shall provide one parking space for each 50 square feet of floor
space within the building that is used as a dining area for patrons. Such
parking space may be located on the same lot as the building or on an area
within 300 feet of the building which is within the same district. Two or more
owners of buildings may join together in providing this parking space, provided
that the minimum requirements of this section are maintained.
(Ord. 316, passed 3-9-1993)
§ 11-5-4 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   In the “C” Commercial District, no building shall exceed two and one-half
stories nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-5-5 AREA REGULATIONS.
   In the “C” Commercial District, the following area regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Front yard. No front yard is required except where a front setback has
been established by structures upon 50% or more of the lots on one block, any
new construction or alteration of an existing structure shall conform to such
setback.
   (B)   Side yard. No side yard is required.
   (C)   Rear yard. No rear yard is required, except that where the rear yard
of a lot in this district abuts a lot in the “A” Residential District there
shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than 15 feet.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-5-6 INTENSITY OF USE.
   In the “C” Commercial District, when a lot is improved with a single-family
dwelling or two-family dwelling or when one or more dwelling units are erected
above a use permitted in the “C” Commercial District, the intensity of use and
minimum size regulations contained in §
11-4-4(E) and (F) apply.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-5-7 LIQUOR SALES REGULATIONS.
   Operation of a liquor store or tavern in the “C” Commercial District shall
be further restricted by compliance with a liquor control ordinance.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-5-8 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by special use permit, after notice and
public hearing held by the Hearing Officer and subject to such protective
restrictions that are deemed necessary, authorize the location, extension, or
structural alternation of any of the following buildings or uses, or an
increase in their height, in the “C” Commercial District.
Any use which is generally similar to the uses permitted in the “C” Commercial
District which conforms to the other regulations for such district.
Class II garages
Filling stations
Funeral homes and crematories
Group homes for mentally or physically disabled persons
Parking lots on land not more than 300 feet from the boundary of the “C”
Commercial District
Radio or television antennas used in conjunction with commercial broadcasting
stations
Radio or television broadcasting towers
 
   (B)   Procedurally, special use permits shall be handled in the same fashion
as applications for variances set forth in §
11-2-9. The application fee shall also be $350. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Zoning Administrator and the applicant shall be
responsible for cost of publication as in the case of variance requests. A
public hearing shall be conducted by the Hearing Officer in the same fashion as
for variances: the Hearing Officer shall prepare and transmit to the Village
Board its findings and recommendation the applicant shall pay all fees related
to publication, and all permits shall be only by ordinance. The findings and
recommendations shall not be based on the standards of §
11-2-9 but rather shall be based on consideration of the effect of such
proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood, surrounding
land values, traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters
pertaining to the public health, public safety, or general welfare. No action
shall be taken upon any application for a special use permit until the report
of the Hearing Officer has been filed, and such report shall be made within 60
days after the matter has been referred to the Hearing Officer by the President
and Board of Trustees. If the Hearing Officer recommends against the issuance
of the special use permit, then it may be issued only by an affirmative two-
thirds vote of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 7-7-2015; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
CHAPTER 6: NON-CONFORMITIES
Section
   
11-6-1   General regulations
   
11-6-2   Damaged buildings
   
11-6-3   Discontinuance of operation
   
11-6-4   Transfer of ownership
§ 11-6-1 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The lawful use of land or a building existing at the time of the
adoption of this title may be continued, subject to the provisions of this
title, although such use does not conform with the provisions hereof. A non-
conforming use may not be changed to another non-conforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a non-conforming use of land or a building has been changed
to a conforming use, such shall not thereafter be changed back to a non-
conforming use.
   (C)   These provisions, together with those found in the other sections of
this chapter, shall also apply to a use based upon a variance granted under
prior zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-6-2 DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   No building which has been damaged by fire, storm, explosion, act of God, or
public enemy, to the extent of more than 50% of its value, shall be restored
except in conformity with the regulations of this title.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-6-3 DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATION.
   In the event that a non-conforming use is discontinued or its normal
operation stopped for a period of six months, the use of the same shall
thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-6-4 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   Any non-conforming use existing at the time of the adoption of this title
may be transferred to a new owner, subject to all other restrictions in this
title.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
CHAPTER 7: ADDITIONAL ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-7-1   Signs and businesses
   
11-7-2   Height restrictions
   
11-7-3   Accessory structures
   
11-7-4   Yard requirements
   
11-7-5   Temporary buildings
   
11-7-6   Multiple buildings on a lot
§ 11-7-1 SIGNS AND BUSINESSES.
   In either district, no person or corporation shall erect or maintain
advertising signs, or operate a mobile home park or a business for the sale of
motor vehicles, mobile homes, or trailers.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989) Penalty, see §
1-1-99
§ 11-7-2 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   In either district, where otherwise permitted, public, semi-public, or
public service buildings, hospitals, institutions, or schools, may be erected
to a height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each yard line at
least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district.
   (B)   Single-family and two-family dwellings may be increased in height by
not more than ten feet when the side and rear yards are increased over the yard
requirements of the district in which they are located by not less than ten
feet, but they shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (C)   Fences, non-advertising signs, satellite dish antennas, chimneys,
cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage
towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires,
church steeples, radio towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances, may be
located or erected to a height in accordance with existing ordinances or
ordinances hereafter adopted by the village.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-7-3 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   In either district, accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard
but such accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 50% of the required
rear yard. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-7-4 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   In either district, every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the
ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental features
projecting not more than 12 inches.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-7-5 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   In either district, temporary buildings that are used in conjunction with
construction work only may be permitted during the period that the building is
being constructed, but such temporary buildings shall be removed upon
completion of the construction work.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
§ 11-7-6 MULTIPLE BUILDINGS ON A LOT.
   More than one commercial, multiple dwelling, or institutional building may
be erected upon a single lot or tract provided such buildings are developed as
a unit, but the yards and open spaces required around the boundaries of the lot
or tract shall not be encroached upon by any such buildings, nor shall there be
any change in the intensity of use regulations.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-15-1989)
CHAPTER 8: ADULT USES
Section
   
11-8-1   Definitions
   
11-8-2   Alcohol sale and consumption
   
11-8-3   Location restrictions
   
11-8-4   Permits and permit reviews
   
11-8-5   Exterior display
   
11-8-6   Offenses
   
11-8-7   Change in building structure or use
   
11-8-99   Penalty
§ 11-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”; or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises, or any
other factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
   ADULT CLUB. A public or private establishment, a primary purpose of which is
to provide members or guests with a venue to perform “specified sexual
activities” with other members or guests.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
features topless dancers, strippers, “go-go” dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows; not infrequently
features entertainers who display “specified anatomical areas”; or features
entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct perform in a manner
which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or
features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged in explicit simulation of,
“specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. As defined by 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5, a striptease
club or a pornographic movie theatre whose business is the commercial sale,
dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit material, shows, or other
exhibitions or an adult book store or adult video store whose primary business
is the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit
material, shows, or other exhibitions.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing,
novelties, lotion, and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for “specialized sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises, or any other factors
showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, adult entertainment facilities, adult novelty stores,
adult clubs, and other similar uses of property within the village.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals; pubic
region; buttock; and female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes:
      (1)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breasts; and excretory functions as part of or in connection
with any of the foregoing activities.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007)
§ 11-8-2 ALCOHOL SALE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor shall be sold or consumed on
the premises of any adult use.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007) Penalty, see §
11-8-99
§ 11-8-3 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Adult uses are permitted only in areas zoned “C”, but subject to the
following additional restrictions.
   (A)   No structure containing an adult use, and no sign advertising its
location or existence, shall be located within 500 feet of the property line of
any property which is zoned residential or used for residences, churches,
schools, parks, or another adult use.
   (B)   In accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5, no adult entertainment facility
shall be located within 1,000 feet of the property boundaries of any school,
day care center, cemetery, public park, forest preserve, public housing, and
place of religious worship.
   (C)   No adult use shall be located in a building in which there is an
establishment selling alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007)
§ 11-8-4 PERMITS AND PERMIT REVIEWS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an adult use unless specifically permitted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Permits for constructing or occupying an adult use shall be issued
only after the following review process. The applicant shall apply to the
Zoning Administrator for the permit; the application shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable $350 application fee. The application shall be on a form
substantially in the form attached to the ordinance codified herein as Appendix
A.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide a copy of the application to
the Chief of Police, and shall process the portion of the application marked
“For Zoning Administrator’s Review” and shall forward the application to the
Hearing Officer for review. Within 60 days of filing, the Hearing Officer shall
conduct a review of the application for conformance with the zoning,
subdivision, and adult use chapters of the village’s Code of Ordinances. The
Hearing Officer shall render a recommendation to the Village Board as to
whether the proposed adult use conforms with all village ordinances, and may
recommend conditions on the development and operation of the adult use related
to site plan, floor plan, construction materials, lighting, parking and
circulation, ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and signage in
order to assure that the design and operation of the adult use is in
conformance with all village ordinances and is compatible with surrounding
uses.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall run a criminal background check on all
persons disclosed by the application to have a 5% or greater ownership interest
in the permit application, in order to verify that no such persons have been
convicted of the crimes of prostitution, obscenity, or other crimes of a sexual
nature. The Chief of Police shall report his or her findings to the Village
Board. No permit shall be issued to a person who has been convicted of any
felony or misdemeanor involving prostitution, obscenity, or other offense of a
sexual nature, or to a business entity, any manager, or owner of 5% or more of
the interest of which has been convicted of such a crime.
   (E)   Within 30 days of receipt of the Hearing Officer recommendation, the
Village Board shall, by resolution, duly made, seconded, passed, and signed by
the Village President, grant or deny the permit. The Village Board’s action
shall specify the location, by legal description and common address, of the
adult use, and shall specify the nature of the adult use permitted. The Village
Board may place conditions on the adult use. The Village Board’s determination
is a final agency action subject to administrative review.
   (F)   Permit renewal regulations are as follows.
      (1)   Except as set forth in division (F)(2) below, a permit granted
pursuant to this title is valid until December 31 of the year in which it is
granted. During the month of December of each year, each licensee shall apply
for a permit renewal, using the permit renewal application set forth as
Appendix B of the ordinance codified herein. A renewal permit, when granted,
shall be valid until December 31 of the following year. The annual permit
renewal fee shall be $50.
      (2)   Upon any change in ownership of greater than 5% of a corporate or
LLC licensee, the licensee shall apply for a permit renewal, using application
set forth in Appendix B of the ordinance codified herein. The renewal permit
shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which it was issued.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall run a criminal background check on all
persons disclosed by a renewal application under either divisions (F)(1) or (F)
(2) above to have a 5% or greater ownership interest in the applicant, in order
to verify that no such persons have been convicted of the crimes of
prostitution, obscenity, or other crimes of a sexual nature. The Chief of
Police shall report his or her findings to the Village President. Renewal
permits shall be granted by the Village President unless the Village President
finds that the applicant is in violation of this chapter or any other provision
of the village’s code of ordinances, or of the conditions of the original
permit. Any denial of a renewal permit application is subject to administrative
review.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007; Ord. 24-19, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 11-8-5 EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation
of any material depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” from any public way or from any
property not registered as an adult use. This provision shall apply to any
display, decoration, sign, show window, or other opening.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007)
§ 11-8-6 OFFENSES.
   (A)   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company, or other business entity, shall own, manage, or operate an
adult use within the corporate limits of the village without a permit from the
village obtained in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company, or other business entity, shall provide false information on
an application for an adult use permit.
   (C)   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company, or other business entity, shall own, manage, or operate an
adult use within the corporate limits of the village except in conformance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007)
§ 11-8-7 CHANGE IN BUILDING STRUCTURE OR USE.
   An adult use permit is specific to a location and to a use. No adult use may
be enlarged, nor the nature of the adult use changed, without the owner and
manager thereof securing a new permit.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007)
§ 11-8-99 PENALTY.
   Natural and legal persons found guilty of violating this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $250 or more than
$750. Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. Where a
corporation, limited liability company, or other legal person owns or operates
an adult use, all officers, directors, managers, and employees who knowingly
participated in management decisions shall be liable to the same extent as the
legal person.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-15-2007)
TITLE 12: SUBDIVISIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
      
2.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
3.   LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS
      
4.   PRELIMINARY PLAN
      
5.   CONSTRUCTION PLANS
      
6.   CONSTRUCTION AND BONDING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
7.   FINAL PLAT
      
8.   DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
9.   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
      
10.   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS
      
11.   TRACT SURVEYS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
Section
   
12-1-1   Title
   
12-1-2   Jurisdiction
   
12-1-3   Purpose
   
12-1-4   Definitions
   
12-1-5   Severability
§ 12-1-1 TITLE.
   This title may be cited as “The 2004 Land Subdivision Ordinance of the
Village of Grandview, Illinois”.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-1-2 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The subdivision jurisdiction of the village shall include all land
within the corporate limits of the village. Should the village adopt a
Comprehensive Plan, the jurisdiction shall extend to all unincorporated land
within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   When the one and one-half mile subdivision jurisdiction of the village
and that of another municipality overlap, a contractual agreement between the
village and the other municipality may be established which designates
subdivision jurisdiction boundaries in the overlap area. In the absence of such
an agreement, the jurisdiction shall extend to a median line equidistant from
the village’s boundary and the boundary of the other municipality nearest to
the boundary of the village at any given point on the line.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-1-3 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this title to promote growth and development and
to regulate and control the division of land within the subdivision approval
jurisdiction of the village in order to provide for the legal and orderly
division of land by requiring proper description, monumentation, and recording
of subdivided land and to promote growth of the community which protects the
public health and safety and provides essential public services to existing and
future residents.
   (B)   The goals of this title shall be to promote:
      (1)   Conformance with the village’s Comprehensive Plan, if such a Plan
is adopted;
      (2) Provision of adequate public services including public water and
sewer, electricity, and police and fire protection to land to be developed;
      (3)   Prevention of leap frog and scattered development;
      (4)   Prevention of development on unsuitable land;
      (5)   Provision of safe and efficient street network;
      (6)   Prevention of agricultural/residential conflicts;
      (7)   Conservation and protection of natural resources;
      (8)   Prevention of inappropriate development in or filling of the 100-
year floodplain;
      (9)   Establishment of lots that are of a practical size and shape; and
      (10)   Enhancement and preservation of aesthetic qualities.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-1-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side
of a property which abuts on a street.
   ARTERIAL ROADWAY NETWORK PLAN. The portion of the Official Village Plan
providing and planning for the present and future system of streets for the
village.
   AS BUILT PLANS. Final plans showing any changes from the construction plans,
indicating in detail how the project was constructed. Such plans show all
public facilities as built on the surface and underground, both on public
property and on easements, and also indicate all private utility locations that
are known. Details shown include: sanitary and storm sewers; manholes; invert
grades; bench marks; location of sanitary sewer laterals; street inlets;
hydrants; general flow of surface water; and grades for drainage swales on the
lot. The AS BUILT PLANS carry the seal of a registered professional engineer
certifying that construction was completed in conformance with the plans and
specifications.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
parks, railroad rights-of- way, or bodies of water.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets penetrating neighborhoods collecting traffic from
local streets and channeling it into the arterial street system. A minor amount
of through traffic may be expected, but COLLECTOR STREETS primarily provide
land access service and carry local traffic movements within residential
neighborhoods and commercial and industrial areas.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The drawings prepared in the manner and containing the
data, documents, and information required by Chapter 5 - Construction Plans.
   COVENANTS. A private agreement written into the deed in which property
owners of the development promise to do or refrain from doing certain acts.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A permanent street with a single access point that ends in a
turnaround and cannot be further extended without taking property not dedicated
as a street. A CUL-DE-SAC begins at its point of intersection with a street
with multiple access.
   DEDICATE. To transfer ownership of land, either fee simple or a partial
interest, for a public use, and for a public body to accept it for that public
use.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A natural watercourse, swale, depression, or ditch for the
drainage of surface waters and stormwaters.
   EASEMENT. A liberty, privilege, or advantage which a party or the general
public may have regarding the land of another. The remainder of the rights in
the land remain in the hands of the owner who retains the legal title.
   EXISTING TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY. Any public road in the township which is owned
and maintained by the township.
   FINAL PLAT. The drawing of a subdivision prepared in the manner and
containing the data, documents, and information required by this title showing
lots of record and which is to be recorded.
   FLAG LOT. A lot located behind another lot or parcel with access to a public
street only by a narrow strip of land extending from the buildable area of the
lot to the street.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A form of land subdivision which involves the
construction of a multi-family or commercial building on a lot or parcel of
land one acre or more in size or two or more principal multi-family or
commercial buildings on a lot or parcel of land of any size served by an
internal street and utility distribution.
   LOCAL STREETS. Streets not classified in a higher system which primarily
provide direct access to abutting land and access to higher types of roadways.
They offer the lowest level of mobility being the narrowest and shortest
streets in the street system. Service to through traffic is deliberately
discouraged.
   LOCATION MAP. A preliminary drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
containing the data and information required by this title.
   LOT. The tract within a subdivision marked by the subdivider as a numbered
tract to be offered as a unit of land for sale or transfer of ownership.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL STREETS AND ROADWAYS. The highest traffic volume corridors
serving major activity centers and the longest trip desires. Service to
abutting land is subordinate to the provision of travel service to major
traffic movements. They are normally spaced on a one mile grid pattern and may
include expressways.
   MAY. Something is discretionary.
   MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Streets and roadways which interconnect
with and augment the major arterial street system and provide service trips of
moderate length at a somewhat lower level of travel inability than major
arterials. MINOR ARTERIALS place more emphasis on land access and distribute
travel to geographic areas smaller than those identified with major arterials.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The creation of a total of up to four lots (counting the
original tract from which the lots are created) which front along a public
road.
   OFFICIAL PLAN or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Grandview, Illinois, Comprehensive
Plan.
   OWNER. Any or all persons, entities, trusts, or corporation holding legal
title to the land to be subdivided. If the owner is a trust, all beneficiaries
shall be listed as OWNERS. If the owner is a corporation, all principals and
officers shall be listed as OWNERS.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH. The distance from the edge of the pavement to the edge of
the pavement but not including curb and gutter.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A form of land subdivision that allows the
development of ten or more acres of land with variations of some of the
restrictions of standard zoning and subdivision regulations.
   PLANNING COMMITTEE or COMMITTEE. The Committee of the Village Board having
jurisdiction over the review of subdivision plans and plats.
   PLAT. The action of officially subdividing land or the final plat which is
approved by the village and recorded.
   PLATS OFFICER. The Executive Director of the Springfield-Sangamon County
Regional Planning Committee or duly authorized representative.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A plan of proposed subdivision or greater area prepared in
the manner and containing the data, documents, and information required by this
title.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted.
   PRIVATE STREET. A purported street, way, or strip of land reserved for the
use of a limited number of persons or purposes and which is not a publicly
dedicated street.
   PUBLIC CROSSWALK. A ten-foot right-of-way through the interior of a block in
which a sidewalk meeting the construction standards of this title is built.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage way,
water main, sidewalk, parkway, or other facility which the village or other
governmental unit owns, maintains, and operates.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street owned and maintained by a governmental body.
   RECORD. To file a final plat approved by the village with the County
Recorder of Deeds.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land which has been dedicated in fee simple to a
public body for streets, alleys, and other public improvements as determined by
the public body.
   SANITARY SEWER. A constructed conduit connected with the sewer system that
is designed to carry liquids and solids other than stormwater to a sanitary
sewer treatment plant.
   SERVICE ACCESS STREET. A street parallel to and adjacent to a major arterial
which provides access from the arterial to abutting properties.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance required between the building and
the lot line adjoining the street right-of-way.
   SHALL. Something is mandatory.
   SKETCH PLAN. A general layout of a proposed subdivision prepared in the
manner and containing the information required by this title.
   STORM SEWER. A constructed conduit for carrying stormwater to a drainage
course.
   STORMWATER. Water from roof down spouts, basement footing perimeter drains
and yard drains as well as surface runoff.
   STUB STREET. A street which is intended to be extended but which temporarily
ends.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any or all owners, agents, or persons controlling land who
commence proceedings under this title by submitting location and sketch maps to
the Planning Committee office or by making land improvements in the form of
buildings, drives, and utilities, but not necessarily involving the actual
division of land.
   SUBDIVISION OF LAND. The division of land into two or more parts, any of
which is less than five acres in size (see §
12-2-2  for exemptions), dedication of streets or easements of access, or
creation of a Planned Unit Development. In the event a subdivision is a planned
unit development, the standards and regulations of this title shall govern.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS. The Sangamon County Superintendent of Highways.
   SURETY. A bonding agency that is financially qualified to do business in the
State of Illinois.
   THROUGH LOT. Any lot which is not a corner lot and which adjoins two streets
that are parallel or within 45 degrees of being parallel to each other.
   TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER. The Township Highway Commissioner for the
township in which the subdivision is located.
   TRACT SURVEY. A land survey, made by an Illinois Professional Land Surveyor,
complying with the requirements of § 1 of “An Act to revise the law in relation
to plats” (765 ILCS 205/0.01) as now or hereafter amended, and Section 35 of
the “Revenue Act of 1939” (35 ILCS 205/35) as now or hereafter amended.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or device placed on or
adjacent to a street or highway by authority of the Village of Grandview, the
State of Illinois Department of Transportation, or the Sangamon County
Superintendent of Highways.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grandview, Illinois.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of Grandview, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The professional engineer appointed or designated by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the Village of Grandview.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of the Village of Grandview.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-1-5 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or portion of this title is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of the title shall not be affected by that decision.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
12-2-1   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
12-2-2   Plat required; exemptions
   
12-2-3   Variances
   
12-2-99   Penalty
§ 12-2-1 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator of the village shall be the staff person
primarily responsible for administering this title. He or she may be a trustee
designated by the Village Board to perform such functions, or may be an officer
of the village appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent
of the Village Board.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Accept all plats and other documents for filing with the village;
      (2)   Ensure that the proper number of plats and other documents as
required by this title are filed by the subdivider;
      (3)   Ensure the timely and proper dissemination of all plats and other
documents to interested parties;
      (4)   Perform whatever staff work is required by the Planning Committee;
      (5)   Assure collection of all fees required by this title;
      (6)   Pay all such fees over to the General Fund of the village; and
      (7)   Ensure, prior to the approval and signing of any final plat, that
all necessary fees have been paid by the subdivides in addition to these
general duties, the Zoning Administrator shall have all other duties required
by this title.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-2-2 PLAT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a subdivider of land within the subdivision
jurisdiction of the village to subdivide land into lots, blocks, streets,
alleys, or public open space unless by plat in accordance with the laws of the
state and the provisions of this title. It shall be unlawful to divide land
without obtaining tract survey approval, when required.
   (B)   The provisions of this title shall not apply, except as noted with
respect to tract surveys, and no plat is required in any of the following
instances (Plats Act, 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.):
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land except where the transfer results in the creation of
another buildable lot;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for the use
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipe lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land owned for highway or other public purposes
or grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or easements of
access. If a division is made prior to October 1, 1973 for which an exemption
is claimed pursuant to this division (A)(8), and the division results in one
part being greater than five acres and the other part being less than five
acres, then the subsequent division of the part greater than five acres shall
qualify for the exemption set forth in division (A)(9) below. If a division is
made on or after October 1, 1973 for which an exemption is claimed pursuant to
this division (A)(8), and the division results in one part being greater than
five acres and the other part being less than five acres, then the subsequent
division of the part greater than five acres shall not qualify for the
exemption set forth division (A)(9) below;
      (9)   The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a tract of five
acres or larger when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided,
however, that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots
from the same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and
configuration of the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided that this
exemption does not invalidate any other local requirements applicable to the
subdivision of the land; and
      (10)   The division of a lot of record as of the date of this title, if
the new lots created by such division, together with any structures existing as
of the date of the division, meet all requirements of the zoning ordinance for
the village with respect to the Zoning District in which such new lots are
located, and not involving any new streets or easements of access; provided,
however, that this exemption shall not apply to the further division of any
lots created thereby.
   (C)   A tract survey shall be required for a division or subdivision of land
for which no plat is required under division (B) above. All tract surveys shall
be approved and recorded in accordance with §§
12-11-1 to
12-11-4.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
12-2-99
§ 12-2-3 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A subdivider may request a variance of the requirements of this title.
Application for a variance shall be made in wiring and submitted with the
location and sketch maps unless the need is not then evident. Variance
applications shall clearly state the provisions to be varied and the reasons
why the variance is needed. In all cases, variance requests shall be made no
later than the time the preliminary plan is reviewed by the Planning Committee.
   (B)   If, as a result of changes imposed by the Planning Committee at its
preliminary plan review meeting, the subdivider desires a variance, it may be
requested orally at that meeting.
   (C)   The Planning Committee shall recommend approval or disapproval of the
requested variance by the Village Board. Along with its recommendation the
Planning Committee shall transmit findings to the Village Board as to whether
the requested variance complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The intent of this title is maintained;
      (2)   Extraordinary circumstances of topography, land ownership, adjacent
development, or other circumstances not provided for in the ordinance exist;
      (3)   The extraordinary circumstances will result in a hardship, not
merely an inconvenience;
      (4)   The circumstances upon which the request for variance is based are
not common to most other tracts of land;
      (5)   The circumstances upon which the request for variance is based are
not the result of the subdivided affirmative act or failure to act; and
      (6)   The purpose of a variation is not based exclusively on the desire
to eliminate development costs at the expense of the public improvement
standards as outlined in this title.
   (D)   When the Village Board considers the preliminary plan it shall
consider the requested variance. The Village Board may, if it finds that the
requirements of division (C) above are met, approve the plan with the requested
variation; or it may require conditions to the variation if it believes the
conditions are in the public interest; or it may in its discretion deny the
variation and insist on the literal application of this title.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-2-99 PENALTY.
   Any subdivider who violates any of the provisions of this title shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
a sum not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation of this title continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as
such.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 3: LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS
Section
   
12-3-1   Purpose
   
12-3-2   Submission requirements
   
12-3-3   Subdivision site suitability
   
12-3-4   Location and sketch maps review process
   
12-3-5   Validity of location and sketch maps approval
§ 12-3-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the location and sketch maps is to determine the suitability
of the site for subdividing and subsequent development. Suitability shall be
measured by the conformance with the comprehensive plan, effect on natural
resources and natural systems, ability to provide adequate essential services
to the site, and conformance with the goals of this title set forth in §
12-1-3.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-3-2 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Information filed with the Planning Committee shall be of sufficient detail
so that the Committee can determine whether and how essential services will be
provided and if the site is suitable.
   (A)   Location map. The location map shall consist of data added to an
existing base map of a suitable scale, covering an area of at least one-mile
radius from the tract proposed for development. The location map shall show the
following information:
      (1)   North point, scale, and date;
      (2)   Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider
with approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage;
      (3)   Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be
subdivided; and
      (4)   Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided.
   (B)   Sketch map.
      (1)   The sketch map shall show the general layout and character of the
proposed development. The scale shall be no more than 100 feet to the inch.
Exact dimensions or engineering plans are not required.
      (2)   The sketch map shall show the following information:
         (a)   North point, scale, and date;
         (b)   Area to be subdivided with general dimensions;
         (c)   Proposed street network and alignments with existing streets;
         (d)   General lot layout;
         (e)   Potential open space, (e.g., public parks, existing waterways,
drainage or retention areas, and the like); and
         (f)   Outstanding or unusual natural features and vegetation.
   (C)   Additional information. In addition to the information required below,
any other information necessary for the Planning Committee to determine site
suitability or adequacy of mitigating factors as outlined in §
12-3-3 shall be submitted:
      (1)   Title of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider,
engineer, and land surveyor. A contact person should be designated;
      (3)   Proposed use and approximate number of housing units;
      (4)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (5)   Method of sewage disposal;
      (6)   Method of water supply;
      (7)   Electric service provider;
      (8)   Fire protection district; and
      (9)   School district.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-3-3 SUBDIVISION SITE SUITABILITY.
   (A)   Essential utilities and public services. Land proposed to be
subdivided shall have essential utilities and public services available within
a reasonable distance and time period. Land to which these essential utilities
and services will not be so provided shall be deemed unsuitable for
subdividing. Essential utilities and services and criteria for determining if
they can adequately be provided shall include the following.
      (1)   Sewage disposal. Land shall be considered unsuitable for
subdividing unless it can be shown that adequate private sewage systems can be
provided, which will comply with the technical requirements in §
12-8-10.
      (2)   Water supply.
         (a)   A state Environmental Protection Agency approved public water
supply shall be the preferred method of water supply.
         (b)   Private wells may be permitted for developments outside the
village if the developer can demonstrate that it is not feasible to extend
water mains to the land proposed to be subdivided. As a minimum guideline, the
extension of 120 feet plus/minus of water main per lot of the preliminary plan
shall be deemed feasible. This distance shall be measured between the nearest
suitable public water main and the proposed development. Mains within the
development shall not count toward this extension footage.
      (3)   Fire protection.
         (a)   Land proposed to be subdivided shall meet the following
conditions in order to be deemed suitable for subdividing.
            1.   Land shall be within a fire protection district, if possible,
or the subdivider shall make arrangements to have the land served by a fire
protection district under contract, if it is not within a fire protection
district.
            2.   There shall be a public road providing adequate access for
emergency vehicles to the site. Roadways shall have an all weather driving
surface (minimum oil and chip) with 20 feet of unobstructed width. Where a
bridge is required to be used as a part of the most direct fire truck access
route, it shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 13 feet, six inches and be
constructed and maintained to carry the live loads imposed by fire trucks; and
            3.   There shall be a system of water mains or other source of
water adequate for fire fighting purposes. Specific fire flows shall be
determined by the Springfield Fire Protection District using a standard
published by the Insurance Service Office entitled Guide for Determination of
Required Fire Flow.
         (b)   A full sprinkler system installed with adequate water available
as determined by the National Fire Protection Association Standards 13 or 13D
depending on the occupancy of the building shall also satisfy this requirement.
      (4)   Streets.
         (a)   The suitability of existing streets for access to the proposed
subdivision and/or for incorporation in to the proposed subdivision’s street
system shall also be considered. A street shall be considered suitable if:
            1.   The street is constructed of all weather material (concrete,
asphalt, oil mat);
            2.   The paved area is at least 20 feet wide with a road bed 24
feet wide; and
            3.   The street has good drainage.
         (b)   If only a portion of the criteria set forth in division (A)(4)
is met, the Village Engineer, a representative of the Springfield Fire
Protection District, and a representative of the Planning Committee shall make
the recommendation as to whether the street is suitable for the proposed
development or what improvements must be undertaken to make it suitable.
      (5)   Police protection. In determining the suitability of land for
subdivision purposes, the distance that police would have to travel to respond
to a call for service shall be considered.
   (B)   Other requirements. Land proposed to be subdivided shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Site must be in conformance with the village’s Comprehensive Plan,
if one is adopted.
      (2)   Development must not be located in a 100-year floodplain or flood-
prone area.
      (3)   Development must not be located in any environmentally sensitive
area including sites adjacent to Lake Springfield and its tributaries unless
the subdivider can show that environmental concerns can be mitigated.
      (4)   Site must be of a shape, size, and terrain so that usable lots and
streets in conformance with this title can and will be created.
      (5)   Development must not have a major conflict with existing use of
adjacent property (waste water treatment plants, power plants, major industrial
plants, landfills, certain agricultural uses, and the like) unless it is shown
that factors which cause the conflict can and will be mitigated.
      (6)   Development must not cause major off-site impacts and problems
relating to, but not limited to, streets, drainage water system, and parks. If
it is determined by the Planning Committee that major off-site impacts will
result, the subdivider must agree to mitigate the portion of the impact caused
by the subdivision.
      (7)   When soils in the area to be developed have severe limitations for
building site development or sanitary facilities as determined by the USDA Soil
Conservation Service, the subdivider shall submit information indicating how
these limitations will be addressed.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-3-4 LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit 13 prints of the location and sketch maps
and support data to the Zoning Administrator. The subdivision will be reviewed
according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by the
Planning Committee.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and distribute
the location map and sketch maps and support data as follows:
      (1)   Two prints to the Planning Committee;
      (2)   One print to the Water Department;
      (3)   One print to the Village Engineer;
      (4)   One print to the Village Clerk;
      (5)   One print to the Springfield Fire Protection District;
      (6)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways, if applicable;
      (7)   One print to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
      (8)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
      (9)   One print to the appropriate school district;
      (10)   One print to the electric utility serving the area to be
subdivided; and
      (11)   One print to the gas company serving the area to be subdivided.
   (C)   The entities listed in division (B) above shall transmit any comments
on suitability of the site in writing to the Planning Committee within seven
calendar days of receipt.
   (D)   The Planning Committee shall make a recommendation to the Village
Board with respect to the suitability of the site and the proposed layout no
later than 30 days after the plan was filed with the Zoning Administrator. Lack
of action within the allotted time period shall constitute a negative
recommendation to the Village Board.
   (E)   After receiving the Planning Committee’s recommendation, the Village
Board shall, at its next regularly scheduled meeting, approve or disapprove the
location and sketch maps based on the suitability criteria outlined in §
12-3-3.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-3-5 VALIDITY OF LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS APPROVAL.
   The location and sketch maps shall be valid for a period of one year after
Village Board approval. If a preliminary plan has not been submitted within the
one-year period, approval of the location and sketch maps shall expire. If
interest is renewed in subdividing the site at a later time, the entire
location and sketch maps review process and submission requirements shall be
repeated.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 4: PRELIMINARY PLAN
Section
   
12-4-1   Purpose
   
12-4-2   Submission requirements
   
12-4-3   Preliminary plan review process
   
12-4-4   Committee action
   
12-4-5   Village Board action
   
12-4-6   Validity of preliminary plan; reaffirmation of preliminary plan
§ 12-4-1 PURPOSE.
   The preliminary plan is intended to provide a detailed layout of the
proposed subdivision showing the location of public improvements, lots,
drainage, and open space areas.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-4-2 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall show the information required by division
(B) below on plan sheets no larger than 24 by 36 inches with matching lines if
two or more sheets are necessary. The scale shall be no more than 100 feet to
the inch. All dimensions shall be to the nearest foot. The preliminary plan
shall be consistent with the current zoning district classification of the
property.
   (B)   Information to be shown on the plan sheets shall include:
      (1)   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
the names and addresses of the engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider,
and owner of the tract with the name and address of the contact person with
whom any notice is to be sent;
      (2)   North point, scale, and date of preparation and any revisions;
      (3)   A notation stating “Preliminary Plan - Not to be recorded by
Recorder of Deeds”;
      (4)   Total acreage;
      (5)   Location of all present property lines and section lines;
      (6)   The location of all streets, watercourses, and other existing
features within the area to be subdivided and within 200 feet of the site;
      (7)   Location and dimensions of existing buildings and their proposed
disposition;
      (8)   The existing utilities, drainage courses, and culverts, including
the location and size of water mains and sewer outlets within the area to be
subdivided and on the adjacent land;
      (9)   Contours referring to the United States Geological Survey datum
with intervals of two feet or less unless a greater interval is required
because of terrain;
      (10)   The elevation of the 100-year floodplain if any portion of the
land to be subdivided would be submerged by the flood. Adequate buildable area
must be provided above the elevation of the 100- year floodplain;
      (11)   Lot numbers;
      (12)   Proposed location of sewer mains (may be shown on a supplemental
sheet);
      (13)   The proposed storm drainage system including preliminary drainage
computations when detention or retention is likely to be needed (may be shown
on a supplemental sheet). An assessment of long term erosion, sedimentation,
and runoff changes caused by the subdivision should be included;
      (14)   Proposed location of water mains and fire hydrants;
      (15)   Location and width to the nearest foot of all proposed streets,
alleys, and their associated rights-of-way;
      (16)   Location and width to the nearest foot of lots;
      (17)   Location and width to the nearest foot of all utility easements.
The subdivider shall determine the correct location of all easements to be
shown on the preliminary plan from the utility companies;
      (18)   The location of areas to be reserved for public use;
      (19)   The minimum setback requirements for the appropriate zoning
district;
      (20)   Proposed staging of final plats if more than one final plat will
be submitted based on traffic, utilities, and other factors which would
determine the sequence of development with the least impact on existing
residents of the village;
      (21)   Draft of subdivision covenants relating to the requirements of
this title; and
      (22)   If subdivision road access is to a state, county, or township
road, written approval of the access by the state’s Department of
Transportation, County Highway Department, or Township Road Commissioner.
   (C)   The subdivider shall submit the results of percolation tests for
planned septic systems for each and every lot shown on the preliminary plan. No
preliminary plan shall be approved unless the feasibility of septic systems for
each lot is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-4-3 PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file 11 prints of the preliminary plan of the
proposed subdivision in the office of the Zoning Administrator with a filing
fee of $100 to be deposited in the village’s General Fund. The subdivision will
be reviewed according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by
the Planning Committee, and then by the Village Board.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and
distribute the prints as follows:
         (a)   Two prints to the Planning Committee;
         (b)   One print to the Water Department;
         (c)   One print to the Village Engineer;
         (d)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways, if
applicable;
         (e)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
         (f)   One print to the Village Clerk;
         (g)   One print to the Springfield Fire Protection District;
         (h)   One print to the electric utility serving the area; and
         (i)   One print to the gas utility serving the area.
      (2)   The reviewing entities shall transmit any comments or requirements
in writing to the Planning Committee within one week of receipt.
   (C)   The Planning Committee shall recommend to the Village Board that it
approve or disapprove the preliminary plan no later than 30 days after the plan
was filed with the Zoning Administrator; however, no review will take place and
no recommendation will be made by the Planning Committee until the Village
Board has approved the location and sketch maps. Failure by the Planning
Committee to act by the end of said second regularly scheduled meeting shall
constitute a recommendation of disapproval of the plan.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-4-4 COMMITTEE ACTION.
   (A)   Recommendation of approval. If the Planning Committee finds that the
preliminary plan meets the requirements of this title, the Planning Committee
shall forward two prints of the preliminary plan to the Village Board, together
with minutes of all meetings at which the preliminary plan was considered. The
Chairperson shall indicate its recommendation of approval on the plan in
substantially the following language: “The Planning Committee of the Village of
Grandview recommends that this preliminary plan of subdivision be approved.
This is not an approval of the final plat and is not to be recorded.”
   By:                                        
   Date:                                    
   (B)   Recommendation of disapproval. If the Planning Committee finds that
the preliminary plan does not comply with the requirements of this title, it
shall inform the subdivider of its recommendation of disapproval at the meeting
when a vote is taken, followed within seven calendar days by a written
recommendation of disapproval stating the non-compliance found. Unless the
subdivider indicates its desire to amend the preliminary plan in accordance
with division (C) below, either verbally at the Plan Committee meeting (which
shall be reflected in the minutes) or in writing within seven calendar days of
receipt of the written recommendation, then three prints of the proposed
preliminary plan with the written findings of the Planning Committee
recommending disapproval shall be submitted to the Village Board, together with
minutes of all meetings at which the preliminary plan was considered. The
Chairperson shall indicate the Planning Committee’s recommendation of
disapproval on the plan in substantially the following language. “The Planning
Committee of the Village of Grandview recommends that this preliminary plan of
subdivision be disapproved.”
   By:                                    
   Date:                                 
   (C)   Amendment of Preliminary Plan. If the subdivider desires to amend the
preliminary plan prior to its being considered by the Village Board, the
subdivider shall submit 11 prints of the amended plan to the Zoning
Administrator, which shall be reviewed according to the filing deadline and
review schedule established by the Planning Committee. No filing fee shall be
necessary if the amended preliminary plan is filed within two calendar months
of the date the Planning Committee recommends disapproval. The Village Clerk
shall transmit copies of the amended plan as described in §
12-4-3, and review or proceed as indicated in that section.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-4-5 VILLAGE BOARD ACTION.
   Not later than the second regularly scheduled meeting after its receipt of
the prints of the preliminary plan recommending approval or disapproval by the
Planning Committee and of the minutes of the Planning Committee meetings
considering the preliminary plan, the Village Board shall consider approval or
disapproval of the preliminary plan. At such meeting, the subdivider may appear
and be heard by the Village Board if it so desires. The Village Board shall by
resolution approve or disapprove the preliminary plat, and shall appropriately
endorse the prints of the preliminary plan, and if the preliminary plan is
approved, the original of the preliminary plan, as follows:
   Disapproved by resolution of the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Grandview this            day of                           , 20
          
                                     
Village President
Attest:
                                     
Village Clerk
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-4-6 VALIDITY OF PRELIMINARY PLAN; REAFFIRMATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be valid for a period of three years after
Village Board approval. If the final plat has not been submitted to the
Planning Committee within said three-year period, or if submitted, no final
plat is approved, the preliminary plan shall expire.
   (B)   If the subdivider will not have submitted a final plat within three
years after preliminary plan approval, but wishes to avoid expiration of the
plan, the subdivider shall seek reaffirmation of the plan by submitting 11
prints to the Village Clerk for review according to the review schedule
established by the Planning Committee in accordance with §§
12-4-3,
12-4-4, and
12-4-5 no later than 35 months after the initial Village Board approval. If the
subdivider has submitted a final plat within said three-year period, but it is
not approved during or after said three-year period, the subdivider may avoid
expiration of the preliminary plan by making the same preliminary plan
reaffirmation submission described above, provided that if the disapproval of
the final plat occurs during or after the thirty-fifth month, the submission
required shall be made within one month of such disapproval. In such event, the
review process in §§
12-4-3,
12-4-4, and
12-4-5 shall be followed.
   (C)   Where reaffirmation of the preliminary plan is sought the Planning
Committee shall recommend, and the Village Board shall require, any changes in
the plan it deems necessary to meet the requirements of this title. If the
subdivider has not resubmitted the preliminary plan with the required changes
to the Village Board within 30 days after the Village Board meeting requiring
changes, or if the resubmitted plan is disapproved, the plan shall expire at
that time or at the end of any appeal process provided for in this title,
whichever is later.
   (D)   A preliminary plan may be reaffirmed one time. If a final plat has not
been submitted to the Planning Committee within three years from the date of
the reaffirmation, or if submitted, is not approved, the plan shall expire.
   (E)   Final plat approval shall extend the validity of the preliminary plan
for three years from the date of final plat approval, provided that the
Planning Committee may require any changes necessary to meet the requirements
of this title, and in such an event, the provisions of division (C) above with
respect to resubmission shall apply. The preliminary plan may be reaffirmed one
time after each final plat approval. If another final plat has not been
resubmitted within three years from the date of the reaffirmation, the
preliminary plan shall expire. In the event a preliminary plan expires, a
subdivider wishing to proceed with subdivision of the land involved must
resubmit a location and sketch map for review and proceed as in the case of an
original submittal.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 5: CONSTRUCTION PLANS
Section
   
12-5-1   Purpose
   
12-5-2   Submission requirements
   
12-5-3   Construction plan review process
§ 12-5-1 PURPOSE.
   Construction plans are intended to show the design of public improvements
for the subdivision so that a determination can be made as to whether village
standards are met and whether the improvements are compatible with existing
public improvements.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-5-2 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Construction plans shall be submitted on sheets not larger than 24 by 36
inches and to a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch. Construction plans
shall include the following information:
   (A)   Cover sheet showing the location of the development; scales and
symbols that are used; index to sheets; summary of quantities; appropriate
place for approval of the Village Engineer; and the signature and seal of a
registered professional engineer;
   (B)   North arrow and bench marks with their elevations noted. Bench marks
shall be referenced to mean sea level datum as determined by the United States
Geological Survey;
   (C)   Plan sheets showing the locations of all existing streets, right-of-
way lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, drainage ditches,
easements, rear lot drainage, direction of storm drainage flow, survey
monuments, water mains, fire hydrants, and any other appurtenance or structure
that might influence design considerations;
   (D)   Profile sheets indicating the existing ground line and proposed grades
and elevations for all proposed streets, sanitary sewers, drainage structures,
drainage ditches, and rear lot drainage. Elevations shall be referenced to the
United States Geological Survey datum;
   (E)   Typical sections showing the right-of-way lines, proposed pavement
widths, pavement thickness, base thickness, sub-base thickness, subgrade,
crown, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, and design data when required;
   (F)   Detail sheets showing the details of manholes, inlets, catch basins,
curbs and gutters, drainage structures, and any other structure or appurtenance
to be constructed, or reference made to the Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction in the state’s Highway Standards published by the
state’s Department of Transportation;
   (G)   Design computations for storm sewer design, for special structures,
and pavement designs when required and for anticipated fire flow;
   (H)   Detailed description of erosion control measures to be taken during
construction;
   (I)   Proof of application for an access permit from the County Highway
Department when access to a county highway is involved;
   (J)   Proof of application for a 404 permit if any dredging, riprapping,
fill work, or similar activities will be conducted in or around streams;
   (K)   Other specific additional information may be requested by the Village
Engineer; and
   (L)   Permits for sanitary sewer and water main construction, if required.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-5-3 CONSTRUCTION PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   After receiving approval of the preliminary plan, the subdivider shall
submit three sets of construction plans to the Zoning Administrator who shall
retain one set on file and distribute the remaining as follows:
      (1)   One set to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   One set to the County Superintendent of Highways when the
subdivision is located outside the corporate limits of the village; and
   (B)   Construction plans shall be submitted a minimum of 30 calendar days
before the final plat is to be submitted for review.
   (C)   The Village Engineer shall complete his or her review within 30
calendar days after all items of information required by §
12-4-2 have been submitted in writing.
   (D)   Within 30 calendar days after complete submission, the Village
Engineer shall notify the subdivider’s engineer of approval of the plans or of
any required changes unless the review time is extended for no more than 14
calendar days by the Village Engineer in a letter to the subdivider’s engineer
listing reasons for the extension. If plans must be resubmitted, the Village
Engineer shall also inform the engineer of the number of sets of plans to be
submitted.
   (E)   When construction plans are resubmitted with the required changes,
they shall be re-reviewed within 14 calendar days unless the review time is
again extended by the Village Engineer in the manner set forth in division (D)
above.
   (F)   The Village Engineer shall notify the subdivider’s engineer and the
Planning Committee of the approval of the construction plans. Construction
plans shall not be approved until proof of acquisition of a county access
permit or 404 permit, if applicable, is submitted.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 6: CONSTRUCTION AND BONDING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
12-6-1   Approval of plans
   
12-6-2   Notification of construction
   
12-6-3   Review and inspection fees
   
12-6-4   Inspection of construction
   
12-6-5   Security for public improvements
   
12-6-6   Length security in effect; forfeiture
   
12-6-7   Approval of public improvements
§ 12-6-1 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   Approval of the construction plans shall give the subdivider the right to
begin construction of the subdivision improvements. Construction must be
started within one year of approval of the construction plans. If construction
is not started within the year, reapproval by the Village Engineer shall be
required before construction is started.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-6-2 NOTIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The Village Engineer shall be notified at least 24 hours before construction
begins. Construction shall begin only after approval of construction plans and
payment of the review and inspection fee as set forth in §
12-6-3. Whenever construction stops for 24 hours or longer, the Village
Engineer shall be notified 24 hours before construction begins again.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-6-3 REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Before starting construction of any public improvements, the
subdivider shall be assessed and shall deposit with the Zoning Administrator
for the village an amount equal to 0.7% of the estimated construction cost
(including, but not limited to, grading, drainage, roadway, sidewalk, sewer,
waterline, and other improvements which are to be dedicated to public use or
which benefit the subdivision generally) as approved by the Village Engineer.
The Zoning Administrator shall cause such funds to be deposited in the General
Fund of the village.
   (B)   The foregoing fee is intended to reimburse the village for charges of
the Village Engineer in connection with the review and inspection of the
preliminary and final plats and the construction of the public improvements. In
the event that the engineering expenses incurred by the village are in excess
of the amount initially paid by the subdivider, the village shall bill the
subdivider for the difference, and such amount shall be paid by the subdivider
prior to acceptance by the village of the final plat; however, the subdivider
shall not be entitled to any refund in the event the fees actually charged to
the village by the Village Engineer is less than 0.7% of the estimated
construction costs.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-6-4 INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A) Presence of subdivider’s observer. The subdivider’s engineer shall have
a full-time, qualified resident observer present on the construction site for
the following:
      (1)   Approval of the subgrade prior to paving; and
      (2)   Continuous observation of all phases of the paving operation, and
construction of storm sewer and appurtenances and construction of water mains.
   (B)   Presence of subdivider’s contractor superintendent. The subdivider’s
contractor shall have a superintendent on the job site at all times while
construction is in progress. The superintendent shall be responsible for the
entire construction procedure. In his or her absence, the superintendent shall
indicate to the subdivider’s observer, the person temporarily responsible for
the conduct of the work.
   (C)   Inspection by Village Engineer. All required improvements to be
installed under the provisions of this title shall be checked during the course
of construction by the Village Engineer. The cost of any re-inspection of any
required improvement found to be faulty or not in accordance with the approved
plans and specification shall be paid by the subdivider to the village. The
testing of any concrete, asphalt, soil, other materials or workmanship shall be
done at the direction of the village and at the expense of the subdivider.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-6-5 SECURITY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If construction has not been completed and approved by the Village
Engineer before the final plat is submitted to the Village Board, security in
the amount equal to 125% of the estimated construction costs (including, but
not limited to grading, drainage, roadway, sidewalk, sewer, waterline, and
other improvements which are to be dedicated to public use or which benefit the
subdivision generally) of the public improvements shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator in order to insure completion of the public improvements
as required by this title within a reasonable length of time without cost to
the village. The form and sufficiency of security shall be subject to the
approval of the Village Attorney and the Village Engineer. Security may be in
the form of a bond issued by a commercial surety licensed to do business in the
state, or it may be in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a
state or national bank of at least one year in duration, which provides for
automatic annual renewals thereof unless at least 60 days prior to the
expiration of its term or any renewal thereof, written notice of nonrenewal is
sent by certified mail to the village.
   (B)   The bond or letter of credit shall by its terms secure payment not
only the construction of the public improvements but also of any additional
review and inspection fees charged by the Village Engineer and imposed by the
village pursuant to §
12-6-3.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-6-6 LENGTH SECURITY IN EFFECT; FORFEITURE.
   The security shall remain in effect until it is released by the Village
Board upon acceptance of the public improvements (§
12-7-7). All public improvements must be completed within two years from the
date when the security was approved. If public improvements have not been
completed within said two years, the subdivider shall forfeit the security in
the amount necessary for the village to carry out the construction or repairs
so that the public improvements meet the standards of this title, plus
administrative costs involved.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-6-7 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   After the Village Engineer informs the village that the following conditions
have been met, the public improvements shall be accepted by the village.
   (A)   The Village Engineer has inspected the construction and all necessary
repairs and corrections and certifies that the public improvements required by
this title have been constructed.
   (B)   “As Built Plans” have been prepared by the subdivided engineer and
delivered to the Village Engineer.
   (C)   The Village Engineer has received a signed statement of a registered
professional engineer stating that the public improvements have been observed
during construction and installed to the specifications shown on the
construction plans.
   (D)   The improvements, such as drainage swales and the like, which are not
to be dedicated to public use but which benefit the subdivision generally, have
been built to specification shown in the construction plans.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 7: FINAL PLAT
Section
   
12-7-1   Purpose
   
12-7-2   Submission requirements
   
12-7-3   Final plat review process
   
12-7-4   Submission of final plat to Village Board
   
12-7-5   Village Board approval
   
12-7-6   Recording the final plat
   
12-7-7   Acceptance of public improvements
§ 12-7-1 PURPOSE.
   The final plat is intended to provide the accurate location of lots,
monuments, and property dedicated to public use.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-7-2 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat need not cover the entire preliminary plan area. It may
cover only the portion which the subdivider presently wishes to record and
develop in accordance with the staging approved with the preliminary plan.
   (B)   The final plat submission shall include the following information on
the plat and accompanying documents.
      (1)   Final plat. The final plat shall be drawn in black india ink on a
reproducible material to a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch. Maximum
size of the plan sheets shall be 24 by 36 inches. If more than two sheets are
used, an index sheet with component areas on the remaining sheets shall be
included. The final plat shall show:
         (a)   The name of the owner and subdivider;
         (b)   North point, scale, and date of preparation and latest
revisions;
         (c)   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles;
         (d)   General land legal description of the plat with total acreage;
         (e)   All lots designated by numbers and other grounds designated by
names and numbers;
         (f)   Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions;
         (g)   The location of all easements provided for public use, services,
or utilities. Easements shall include anchor space for pole lines;
         (h)   An accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to
be dedicated for public use;
         (i)   Lines of all proposed streets with their widths and names;
         (j)   The line of departure of one street from another;
         (k)   The names and widths of adjoining streets;
         (l)   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
the boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, easements, and other areas
for public or private use. Linear dimensions shall be given to the nearest one-
hundredth of a foot;
         (m)   Radii, arcs, chords, points of tangency, and central angles for
all curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners;
         (n)   If applicable, a note on the filial plat stating: “Approval of
this final plat by the Village of Grandview does not constitute a guarantee
that well water is of adequate quantity or quality for residential needs or
that a suitable sewage disposal system can be constricted on each lot.” Any
guarantees are the subdivider’s responsibility;
         (o)   A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is
located in a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
         (p)   A notation stating any setbacks required through covenants if
the setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district.
      (2)   Accompanying documents. The following documents shall accompany the
final plat:
         (a)   Letter from the Village Engineer approving the construction
plans;
         (b)   Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the state’s
or the county’s Highway Department, whichever applies;
         (c)   The certificate of a registered Illinois land surveyor attesting
to the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat;
         (d)   Notarized acknowledgement of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat
itself;
         (e)   Certification of perpetual maintenance of drainage areas and
common areas;
         (f)   Exhibit showing the location of wells and seepage field areas
(must be large enough to accommodate two seepage fields) on each lot;
         (g)   Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of
this title; and
         (h)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land or his or her duly authorized attorney as required by the
state statutes concerning drainage.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-7-3 FINAL PLAT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit 11 prints of the final plat of the
proposed subdivision to the Village Clerk with a filing fee of $100 plus, if it
has not already been paid, the review and inspection fee established pursuant
to §
12-6-3. The subdivision will be reviewed according to the filing deadline and
review schedule established by the Planning Committee. A final plat shall be
reviewed only after approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Committee
and the Village Board and approval of the construction plans by the Village
Engineer. Preliminary plans and final plats will not be reviewed at the same
meeting; however, if the preliminary plan is being reaffirmed, the preliminary
being reaffirmed and its final plat may be reviewed and approved at the same
meeting if there are no major changes required to reaffirm the preliminary.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print and shall
distribute the final plats as follows:
         (a)   Two prints to the Planning Committee;
         (b)   One print to the Water Department;
         (c)   One print to the Village Engineer;
         (d)   One print to the Village Clerk;
         (e)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways;
         (f)   One print to the Springfield Fire Protection District;
         (g)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
         (h)   One print to the electric utility serving the area; and
         (i)   One print to the gas utility serving the area.
      (2)   The reviewing entitles shall transmit any comments or requirements
in writing to the Planning Committee within one week of receipt.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning Committee shall review the final plat to determine
if it meets the requirements of this title and conforms to the preliminary plan
previously submitted.
      (2)   The Planning Committee shall recommend approval or disapproval of
the final plat no later than 30 days after the plat was filed. Failure to act
by the end of said second regularly scheduled meeting shall constitute a
recommendation of disapproval.
         (a)   Disapproval. If the Planning Committee finds that the final plat
does not meet the requirements of this title, the subdivider shall be notified
in writing of the Planning Committee’s disapproval and of the noncompliance
found.
         (b)   Approval.
            1.   If the Planning Committee finds that the final plat meets the
requirements of this title, the following shall be printed or stamped on the
original plat and two prints and signed by the Chairperson of the Planning
Committee.
            2.   “The Final Plat of this subdivision is recommended to the
Village Board for approval by the Grandview Planning Committee subject to the
certifications set forth in Sec. 28.”
   By:                                                      
         Chairperson
   Dated:                                                 
         Grandview Planning Committee
   (D)   The Planning Committee shall transmit the endorsed original plat and
two prints to the Village Board.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-7-4 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT TO VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the endorsed original final plat and two prints, the
Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and shall deliver one print
to the Village Engineer.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall deliver the original final plat to the
Village Board at its next regular session after receiving the documents from
the Planning Committee, along with the applicable minutes of the Planning
Committee and any reports or other written documents generated by the Planning
Committee with respect to the final plat.
   (C)   The final plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the Village Board
and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the following have been
received:
      (1)   Written certification from the Village Engineer that the public
improvements required by this title have been approved as described in §
12-6-7 or, in lieu of construction, a security has been provided as described
in
12-6-5; and
      (2)   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent.
   (D)   If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years
from the final plat approval by the Planning Committee, the existing final plat
shall expire and must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new final plat.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-7-5 VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL.
   When the requirements of §
12-7-4 have been met, the Village Board may by resolution approve the final
plat, accept the security, if any, and authorize the President to sign the plat
for and in the name of the village, with the Village Clerk attesting to it. The
Village Clerk shall retain one print on file.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-7-6 RECORDING THE FINAL PLAT.
   When the final plat has been approved by the Village Board and signed by the
President and the Village Clerk, the original tracing shall be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds. If the final plat is not recorded
within two years after approval by the Village Board, the plat must be
resubmitted to the Planning Committee to determine if any changes in the final
plat are needed to meet the requirements of this title. No title to any lots
shall be conveyed until the original tracing is recorded.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-7-7 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   After the Village Engineer has approved the public improvements as
described in §
12-6-7 and has received a signed statement from the subdivider staring that all
contractors and subcontractors have been paid and that there are no liens
against the property, the Village Engineer shall issue a letter to the
subdivider and the Village Board stating that the public improvements meet the
village’s standards. Within one month after receiving the Village Engineer’s
approval, the Village Board shall release the security, if any, and accept the
public improvements.
   (B)   In areas within the village’s subdivision but outside the village’s
corporate limits, the Village Engineer and County Superintendent of Highways
shall jointly determine whether the standards of this title have been met. If
met, the Village Engineer shall so indicate in a letter to the subdivider and
the Village Board and the Village Board shall release the bond, if any. The
County Superintendent of Highways, as a representative of the appropriate
Township Highway Commissioner, shall indicate in a letter to the Village
Engineer approval of the streets to county standards which shall constitute
acceptance of the streets by the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 8: DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
12-8-1   State specifications
   
12-8-2   Right-of-way of streets
   
12-8-3   Street design
   
12-8-4   Lot and block design
   
12-8-5   Erosion and sediment control
   
12-8-6   Utility easements; location of utilities
   
12-8-7   Surface water drainage
   
12-8-8   Backfill over underground utilities
   
12-8-9   Sidewalks
   
12-8-10   Sewage disposal
   
12-8-11   Water supply
   
12-8-12   Electric distribution
   
12-8-13   Street lighting
   
12-8-14   Public areas and open space
§ 12-8-1 STATE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Unless stated otherwise in this title, all construction of public
improvements shall be performed in accordance with the latest revised edition
of the state’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction adopted
by the state’s Department of Transportation and the Standards Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in the state. If an engineering design or
construction situation arises not covered by the above cited standard
specifications or in the following sections, the decision of the Village
Engineer shall be followed.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-2 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF STREETS.
   (A)   The location and width of all streets shall conform to the Arterial
Roadway Network Plan. The minimum width of a street right-of-way (R-O-W) shall
be as shown on the Arterial Roadway Network Plan, or if not shown on the plan,
shall not be less than the following:
      (1)   Major arterial: 110 — 210 feet R-O-W;
      (2)   Minor arterial: 80 — 100 feet R-O-W;
      (3)   Collector street: 60 feet R-O-W;
      (4)   Local street: 50 feet R-O-W;
      (5)   Alley: 20 feet R-O-W; and
      (6)   Existing township highway: 80 feet R-O-W.
   (B)   Additional rights-of-way may be required for drainage, slope,
maintenance, or other reasons not directly related to street classification.
   (C)   For subdivisions that adjoin existing streets, additional rights-of-
way shall be dedicated, as needed, to meet the above requirements. This shall
be done as follows:
      (1)   The entire additional right-of-way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street; and
      (2)   One-half of the required right-of-way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on only one side of the existing street; however, in no
case shall the resulting right-of-way width be less than 50 feet.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-3 STREET DESIGN.
   The following requirements shall be incorporated into the design of all
streets.
   (A)   Vertical alignment. The maximum grade on a major or minor arterial
shall be 5%. The maximum grade on all other streets shall be 8%. The minimum
grade on all streets shall be 0.40%. All street grades shall be subject to the
approval of the Village Engineer.
   (B)   Horizontal alignment.
      (1)   Horizontal curves. When a centerline deflection angle is greater
than one degree, the following curves shall be required in the street: major
and minor arterials and collector streets shall have a minimum centerline
radius of 300 feet and a minimum length of curve of 100 feet; arterials and
collectors having a design speed and/or expected posted speed greater than 30
mph shall be consistent with the latest revision of the horizontal curvature
requirements of AASHTO, a Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets
for the appropriate roadway classification; all other types of streets shall
have a minimum centerline radius of 100 feet. The pavement in all cases shall
be wide enough to allow the movement of a WB-50 Design vehicle, as described in
the state’s Department of Transportation Design Manual.
      (2)   Intersections. Intersections of major and minor arterials and
collectors with roadways of the same classes shall not be closer than one
quarter of a mile from any other such functionally classed roadways’
intersections. These intersections shall be located at the quarter mile grid
points.
      (3)   Street offsets. Street centerline offsets shall not be less than
125 feet, unless otherwise warranted to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer.
      (4)   Curb corners. All curb corners shall have a minimum radius of 25
feet.
   (C)   Pavement standards. All local and collector streets shall be installed
in accordance with the following pavement standards.
      (1)   Subgrade. At the option of the subdivider, 12 inches lime
stabilized soil per latest IDOT Standard shall be employed within the street
area (omit curb).
      (2)   Asphalt; pavement alternate:
         (a)   Alternate A. If the subgrade is treated as in above, the
pavement design will consist of eight inches of aggregate base course type A
and an A-3 bituminous surface treatment.
         (b)   Alternate B. If the subgrade is not lime treated, the pavement
shall consist of 12 inches aggregate base course type A and an A-3 bituminous
surface treatment.
            1.   All subgrades shall be inspected by the Village Engineer and
if he or she deems necessary, proof rolled prior to paving.
            2.   If the street is a minor arterial, the above base course shall
be increased by two inches for the lime treated and four inches respectively
for the non-lime treated subgrades.
         (c)   Concrete: pavement alternate.
            1.   Regardless if the subgrade is treated, a minimum of six inches
unreinforced Portland cement concrete pavement according to § 408 of IDOT specs
shall be employed. All transverse contraction joints shall be 15 feet and
sealed per ASTM D3405.
            2.   If the street is a minor arterial, the pavement shall be
increased to eight inches. All transverse contraction joints shall be 20 feet
and sealed per ASTM D3405.
         (d)   Pavement design.
            1.   All major arterial pavements shall be designed in accordance
with the requirements contained in the latest, revised edition of the state’s
DOT Design Manual and shall be designed for a 20-year period. The minimum
requirements listed in the tables of the Design Manual shall govern at all
times.
            2.   An Illinois Bearing Ratio of 3.0 (IBR = 3.0) shall be used in
pavement design unless the subdivider’s engineer submits soil tests justifying
a different IBR.
            3.   Vehicular traffic volumes and vehicle classification
percentages used in the design shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
            4.   In all cases the minimum street will govern if the above major
arterial design is less.
   (D)   Pavement width.
      (1)   All streets shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in
accordance with the following general guidelines, which are subject in every
case to the discretion of the village.
 
Type of Street   Pavement Width (edge of pavement to edge of pavement)
Collector street 27 feet minimum
Local street     27 feet minimum
Major arterial   40 feet minimum and as required by IDOT
Minor arterial   32 feet minimum
 
      (2)   The minimum pavement width shall be 27 feet from the edge of
pavement to edge of pavement, not including the curb and gutter. Different
widths may be used depending on the anticipated traffic volumes and parking
demand. These widths of pavement shall be determined by the Planning Committee
and the Village Engineer in consultation with the engineer for the subdivider.
If a pavement width narrower than the above stated minimum results from this
consultation, the subdivider shall install “No Parking” signs at his or her
expense.
   (E)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   The standard curb and gutter required adjacent to flexible pavement
shall be a mountable type constructed of Portland cement concrete with the
following dimensions: 24 inches wide, eight inches thick on the front face
(pavement side), ten inch thick on the back face, seven inches thick at
centerline (flow line), and a ten inches radius in the flow line. The curb and
gutter adjacent to concrete pavement, if poured monolithically, may be limited
to the thickness of the pavement.
      (2)   In subdivisions proposed to have streets with an anticipated daily
traffic volume of 2,500 or more, a barrier type curb and gutter similar to Type
B6.18 as described in the state’s Department of Transportation Highway
Standards shall be used. Other locations where a barrier type curb and gutter
are required shall be determined by the engineer for the subdivision and the
Village Engineer.
   (F)   Pavement crown. The minimum crown used on all pavements shall be one
quarter inch per foot on concrete pavement, and three-eighths inch per foot on
bituminous pavements measured from the edge of the pavement to the centerline
of the street.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac streets. Local streets that are also cul-de-sac streets
shall be no more than 600 feet long unless necessitated by topography, in which
case they shall be no longer than 1,000 feet unless provision is made for an
interim turnaround with a radius sufficient to accommodate emergency vehicles
and/or a median entrance (see division (I) below). A turnaround shall be
provided at the closed end having an outside roadway diameter of at least 86
feet edge to edge of pavement and a street right-of-way diameter of 110 feet.
No obstructions shall be permitted in the cul-de-sac turnaround.
   (H)   Stub streets. Access shall be provided to adjoining property not yet
subdivided. Proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of
such unsubdivided property. At the end of all temporary stub streets, a
barricade meeting the provisions of the state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices shall be installed by the subdivider. Stub streets in excess of
250 feet shall be provided with a temporary cul-de-sac with an outside roadway
diameter of at least 90 feet. The type of construction shall be determined by
the Village Engineer. The subdivider shall dedicate a temporary easement to the
appropriate street authority in the amount needed in excess of the normally
required right-of-way for the temporary turnaround. When the street is extended
in the future, the extra turnaround pavement shall be removed and curb and
gutters and sidewalks constructed by the subsequent developer.
   (I)   Multiple access. Any area of development containing 70 or more single-
family lots (or equivalent population) shall be served by two functioning
points of access. Where higher densities of development are proposed, a divided
type entrance roadway may suffice with a median of adequate width to ensure
continued emergency access lanes on one side. Depending on location and height
of nearby poles or trees, the required median width shall range between 12 and
30 feet. This type of roadway construction is intended to accommodate higher
density developments and not to lengthen the overall length of a cul-de-sac.
   (J)   Restriction of access. When a subdivision or a portion of it adjoins a
major or minor arterial, no lot shall have direct access to the arterial. The
lot shall have adequate depth for screen planting on the portion of the lot
contiguous to the major or minor arterial.
   (K)   Street names and street signs.
      (1)   A proposed street that is in alignment with and/or joins an
existing named street shall bear the name of the existing street. In no case
shall the proposed name of a street duplicate the name of an existing street
within the plat jurisdiction of this title. The use of the suffix “street”,
“avenue”, “boulevard”, “driveway”, “place”, “court”, or similar description
shall not be a distinction sufficient to constitute compliance with this
requirement.
      (2)   Street names signs shall be erected at all intersections within the
village’s jurisdiction at the expense of the subdivider and shall be subject to
the specifications of the state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
   (L)   Private streets. There shall be no private streets platted in any
subdivision. Every subdivision lot shall be served from a publicly dedicated
street.
   (M)   Ramps. Where sidewalks cross a barrier type curb and gutter as
described in division (E) above, ramps shall be constructed to accommodate the
handicapped. These ramps shall be constructed to the lines and grades shown on
the standard sidewalk ramp example. Inlets for storm drainage shall not be
located so that a pedestrian way will be interrupted by the inlet grates. Other
locations where these ramps are required shall be determined by the Village
Engineer.
   (N)   Typical street section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1828.png]
 
   (O)   Medians and islands.
      (1)   Where medians or islands are proposed they shall be constructed
with barrier curbing. All medians and islands shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider and/or a subdivision association to maintain. No sign may be
installed in the median winch blocks the sight distance at the intersection. If
such a sign is to be installed, detailed plans for the sign shall be submitted
with the construction plans for approval. In no case shall an island or median
contain any other sign or structure except as may be placed for traffic control
under the direction of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   The subdivider or subdivision association may landscape medians or
islands. Ground cover may not exceed a maximum height of 12 inches. Any
additional living plant material must be maintained to allow visibility across,
over, or through medians and islands at a height of three to ten feet above the
adjacent roadway pavements.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-4 LOT AND BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Size of lots. Minimum lot sizes shall be the minimum for the
applicable zoning district of the village or the county, except when a private
sewage disposal system is necessary. When a private sewage disposal system will
be used for any length of time, lots shall be a minimum of 20,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot arrangement.
      (1)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or
substantially radial to curved street lines; however, for purposes of solar
orientation, side lot lines need not be at right angles to straight street
lines or radial to curved street lines provided that side lot lines run within
20 degrees east or west from due north to due south. If side lot lines are
being varied for solar orientation, layout and building setbacks shall also be
oriented with their long axis running from east to west, with a possible
variation of 20 degrees to the southwest or 20 degrees to the southeast.
      (2)   Each lot shall front upon a public street.
      (3)   Flag lots shall be permitted only if the Planning Committee
determines that no public health and safety problems or additional costs or
difficulties providing municipal services will result.
      (4)   Through lots shall be permitted only when access is prohibited to
one street as described in §
12-8-3(J).
      (5)   All lots must contain sufficient buildable area.
   (C)   Sizes of blocks. Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet, nor more than
1,200 feet, in length measured along the greatest dimension of the enclosed
block area. In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Planning Committee may
require one or more public crosswalks with a right-of-way of not less than ten
feet in width to extend entirely across the block at locations deemed necessary
at intervals not closer than 400 feet.
   (D)   Survey monuments. All survey monuments shall be located and be made of
the appropriate material as required by state law.
   (E)   Lot grading.
      (1)   Trees that cannot be saved, stumps, boulders, and similar items
shall be removed.
      (2) All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography of
the surrounding area. All street embankments shall be raised at least one and
one-half feet above the high water elevation.
      (3)   All building lots shall be graded or have natural slopes that will
properly allow surface drainage to flow away from the principal structures to
be located on the lot.
      (4)   Grading in the subdivision shall provide alternate drainage ways
for the purpose of carrying water away from homes and preventing damage during
periods of heavy rainfall.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-5 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   During construction of public improvements, measures shall be taken to
control erosion and sedimentation to ensure that sediment will not be
transported from the site by a storm event of two-year frequency or less. The
erosion and sediment control plan shall include measures to stabilize and
protect disturbed areas, keep runoff velocities low, retain sediment on site,
and protect disturbed areas from runoff. The location, type, and configuration
of controls such as swales, berms, dams, sediment basins, and release
mechanisms shall be included with the construction plans.
   (B)   Temporary or permanent soil stabilization measures, whichever is
applicable, shall be applied within 15 days after final grading to all areas
where the soil has been disturbed or the vegetative cover removed. Seeding
mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seed bed preparation, expected
seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer application, and kind and
quantity of mulch for temporary or permanent vegetative control measures shall
be included with the construction plans.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-6 UTILITY EASEMENTS; LOCATION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Utility easements.
      (1)   Utility easements shall be provided along front, rear, or side lot
lines for the purpose of erecting and maintaining one or more of the following
facilities: storm sewers; sanitary sewers; surface drainage; gas mains;
underground electric lines; telephone lines; cable TV; and such other utilities
reasonably required for an urban structure.
      (2)   Easements shall be a minimum of ten feet in width. A utility may be
located in the street right-of-way if the respective company so desires and
appropriate permits have been obtained.
      (3)   Alternate locations for various utilities shall be decided upon by
the appropriate utility companies, subject to the approval of the Village
Engineer. In no case shall streets, permanent buildings, or other human-made
improvements that obstruct surface drainage be placed on rear or side lot
easements.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the subdivider to notify all utility
companies in writing when the land to be developed has been graded in
accordance with the construction plans and is ready for installation of a given
utility.
   (B)   Location of utilities.
      (1)   Utilities (sewers, electric, water, and gas), whenever possible,
shall be located in the public right-of-way or front lot easement in the
following manner: water and electric lines shall be located on the south and
east sides; sanitary sewer and gas lines shall be located on the north and west
sides. In some cases, however, electric lines may also be located on the north
and west sides. Storm sewers shall be located under the pavement near, but not
in, the center.
Front yard easement south or east side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1830.png]
 
Front yard easement north or west side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1832.png]
 
      (2)   The placement of storm sewers or electric lines in the rear of a
lot is not acceptable unless circumstances determined by the Village Engineer
require their placement in the rear, in which case the following easement
diagrams indicate placement.
         (a)   Ten-foot easements. When an easement will not include sanitary
sewer or surface drainage systems, ten-foot easement width shall be sufficient
and the utilities shall be located as follows.
Rear yard easement - ten feet north or east side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1834.png]
 
         (b)   Fifteen-foot easements. When an easement will include either a
sanitary sewer system or a surface drainage system, but not both systems, a 15-
foot easement shall be required and the utilities shall be located as follows.
Rear yard easement with surface drainage system - 15 feet north or east side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1836.png]
 
Rear yard easement with sanitary sewer system - 15 feet north or east side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1838.png]
 
         (c)   Twenty-foot easements. When a utility easement will include both
a sanitary sewer system and a surface drainage system, a 20-foot easement shall
be required and the utilities shall be located as follows.
North or east side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ae902bfda3fc8da73cfd01a40bca0e8ba41c1e0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1840.png]
 
         (d)   Ten-foot access easement. When sanitary or storm sewers are
located in the rear of a lot, a ten-foot easement in the side yard shall be
required from the street right-of-way to each manhole or inlet.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-7 SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be developed with adequate surface drainage.
Surface water drainage improvements shall consist of storm sewers and/or open
channels, inlets, catch basins, and manholes designed and constructed to
conform with standards established by the Village Engineer and shall adequately
drain the area being developed, including drainage from other areas which
naturally drain through the area being developed.
   (B)   If, as the result of subdivision development, surface water is
deposited in existing roadside ditches in quantities exceeding their capacity,
the developer shall improve the ditches and replace culverts as needed to
handle the flow.
   (C)   Unless engineering evidence is presented to the Village Engineer
warranting exceptions, storm sewers which will drain 20 acres or less for
residential development shall be designed and constructed to meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   Major and minor arterials: ten year storm frequency; and
      (2)   All other areas: five year storm frequency
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide grade
control for rear lot drainage to each lot owner. Swales are not public works
which shall be dedicated to and accepted by the village; nevertheless, no
construction surety shall be fully released until the Village Engineer has
approved the swales in the subdivision. The Village Engineer will not approve
any swale until adequate turf and/or grass has been established at the
elevations set forth in the construction plans. Upon approval by the Village
Engineer, it shall be the lot owner’s responsibility to maintain the drainage
course and to keep it free from features that restrict natural drainage.
   (E)   The controlled release and storage of excess stormwater runoff shall
be required in combination for all of the areas indicated on the preliminary
plan.
      (1)   The controlled release of stormwater runoff shall not exceed the
release or discharge rate which existed at the site prior to development. This
rate shall be known as the pre-developed discharge rate. In the case of
multiple discharge locations, no location shall discharge at a rate higher than
the pre- developed discharge rate for that location under any set of
conditions. The controlled release rate in any case shall not exceed the rated
capacity of the existing natural downstream outlet channel or storm sewer
system as determined by the Village Engineer. The rate at which stormwater
runoff is transported into a designated storage area may be as determined by
the design engineer and is unrestricted.
      (2)   A natural or surface channel system shall be designed with adequate
capacity to convey the stormwater runoff from all tributary upstream areas
through the development. This by-pass channel shall be designed to carry the
peak rate of runoff from a 50-year storm, assuming all storm sewers are blocked
and that the upstream areas are fully developed and have been saturated with
antecedent rainfall. No habitable structures shall be constructed within this
channel, however, streets and parking or playground areas and utility easements
shall be considered compatible primary uses.
      (3)   Stormwater runoff capacity of detention facilities and discharge
rates from such facilities shall be calculated by analyzing volume and rate of
runoff during pre- and post-development conditions for the ten-year and the
100-year recurrence intervals.
         (a)   Storage capacity and discharge rates shall be based on the
maximum calculated volume and peak flow of stormwaters, respectively.
Precipitation information shall be based on the most recent publications by the
State Water Survey, currently Circulars 172 and 173 “Frequency Distributions of
Heavy Rainstorms in Illinois” and “Time Distributions of Heavy Rainstorms in
Illinois” respectively.
         (b)   Storage facilities shall be designed using the Soil Conservation
Service (SCS) method described in Technical Release 55. “Urban Hydrology for
Small Watersheds” of calculating runoff discharge rate and total volume of
storage as a minimum. A more rigorous analysis using a detailed methodology may
also be submitted. The rational method of calculating runoff may be used for
subdivisions less than 20 acres in size.
         (c)   The storage volume shall be provided for the fully developed
watershed that is tributary to the area designated for detention purposes. The
control structure for discharge shall maintain the release rate at or below the
rate established in division (E)(1) above for all rainfall events of 100-year
or less frequency.
      (4)   (a)   Detention reservoirs or bottom stormwater storage areas shall
be designed to serve a secondary purpose for recreation, open space, or other
types of uses that will not be adversely affected by occasional or intermittent
flooding. A method of carrying the low flow through these areas shall be
provided in addition to a system of drains, and both shall be provided with a
positive gravity outlet to a natural channel or other storm sewer facility with
adequate capacity. The combination of storage of the water from a 100-year
storm and the design release rate shall not result in a storage duration in
excess of 72 hours. Maximum depths of planned stormwater storage shall not
exceed four feet unless the existing natural ground contours and other
conditions lend themselves to greater storage depth, which shall be approved by
the Village Engineer. Minimum grades for turf areas shall be 0.6% and maximum
slopes shall be 10%. Storage area side slopes shall be kept as close to the
natural land contours as practical and a 10% slope or less shall be used
whenever possible. If slopes greater than 10% are necessary to meet storage
requirements or area restrictions, approval shall be obtained from the Village
Engineer, and suitable erosion control shall be provided in addition to the
protection required to ensure public health and safety.
         (b)   Outlet control structures shall be designed as simply as
possible and shall require little or no maintenance and/or attention for proper
operation. Each stormwater storage area shall be provided with a method of
emergency overflow in the event that a storm in excess of the 100-year return
frequency storm occurs. The emergency overflow facility shall be designed to
function without maintenance and/or attention and shall become part of the
natural or surface channel system described in division (E)(4)(a) above.
Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design features.
Both outlet control structures and emergency overflow facilities shall be
designed and constructed to fully protect the public health and safety.
Stormwater runoff velocities shall be kept to a minimum and turbulent
conditions at an outfall control structure will not be permitted without
complete protection for the public safety. The use of restrictive fences shall
be kept to a minimum and shall be used only as a last resort when no other
method is feasible.
      (5)   Retention reservoir or wet bottom stormwater storage areas shall be
designed with all of the items required for detention reservoir storage areas
except that a low flow conduit and a system of drains with a positive gravity
outlet shall not be required; however, the following additional conditions
shall be complied with.
         (a)   Water surface area shall not exceed one-tenth of the tributary
drainage area.
         (b)   Shoreline protection shall be provided to prevent erosion from
wave action.
         (c)   Minimum normal water depth shall be four feet. If fish are to be
used to keep the pond clean, a minimum of one-fourth of the pond area shall be
a minimum of ten feet deep.
         (d)   Facilities shall be available, if possible, to allow the pond
level to be lowered by gravity flow for cleaning purposes and shoreline
maintenance.
         (e)   Control structures for stormwater release shall be designed to
operate at full capacity with only a minor increase in the water surface water
level. Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design
features.
         (f)   Aeration facilities to prevent pond stagnation shall be
provided, if necessary. Design calculations to substantiate the effectiveness
of these aeration facilities shall be submitted with construction plans.
Agreement for the perpetual operation and maintenance of aeration facilities
shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer and Planning
Committee.
      (6)   Where developments form only a portion of the watershed or contain
portions of several watersheds, the requirements for providing storage shall be
based upon that proportion of the area being developed as compared to the total
watershed tributary to the storage area. Compensating storage will be
acceptable whenever it is justified and feasible. As a watershed is developed
with a series of stormwater storage facilities, due consideration will be given
for calculations of the allowable release rate and capacity of the natural or
surface channel system as described in §
12-8-7(E)(2).
      (7)   Where development of a property presents the threat of flooding or
damage by flash flood runoff to downstream residents, the facilities for
stormwater runoff control shall be constructed prior to any earthmoving or
drainage construction on the project site.
      (8)   The construction of the stormwater control systems shall be
accomplished as part of the cost of land development. If the amount of storage
capacity can be increased to provide certain benefits to the surrounding
properties, negotiations for public participation in the cost of such
development may be feasible.
      (9)   The ability to retain and maximize the groundwater recharge
capacity of the area being developed is encouraged. Design of the stormwater
runoff control system as provided in §
12-8-7(E)(4) shall give due consideration to providing groundwater recharge to
compensate for the reduction in the percolation that occurs when the ground
surface is paved and/or roofed over. The use of natural gravel deposits for the
lower portions of storm runoff storage areas, the flattening of drainage
slopes, and the retention of existing topography are samples of possible
recharge methods.
      (10)   During the construction phase of land development, facilities
shall be provided by appropriate stock-pile design, to prevent the erosion and
washing away of the earth. Silting of downstream areas shall be prevented
through the strategic use of silting basins, sodding of runoff channels, and by
limiting the period of time during which the earth is stripped of vegetation.
      (11)   Final engineering plans shall show complete details for all items
covered in this section. Plans, specifications, and all calculations for
stormwater runoff control and storm sewers shall be submitted for review and
approval as part of the construction plan submittal or as part of the site plan
submittal for large scale developments.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-8 BACKFILL OVER UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Where an underground utility is to be placed in an area which has a
permanent type street or sidewalk surface, or upon which such a surface is to
be constructed within a period of one year, the backfill above the utility or
in case of sewers, above the top of the granular cradle, to the level of the
bottom of the permanent type pavement shall be made. This material will be in
all areas where utility trenches cross the pavement subgrade except in areas
which will be lime treated or areas where rock will be used to stabilize the
subgrade. The backfill shall be IDOT CA-6 or CA-7 crushed stone. Boiler slag
will not be permitted.
   (B)   As an alternate, the use of “flowable fill” will be permitted. This
mix shall consist of a lean concrete mix with no less than 50 pounds of cement
per cubic yard, 200 to 600 pounds of fly ash, 2,000 to 3,000 pounds of fine
aggregate, and 35 to 65 gallons of water. Minimum 28-day compressive strength
shall not be less than 150 psi.
   (C)   In areas not now subject to vehicular traffic, nor in the opinion of
the Village Engineer likely to be within a period of one year, backfill may be
made with selected excavation material which is free from clods and stones,
provided such trench backfill is adequately jetted from the bottom up
completely filing the trench immediately after backfilling.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-9 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks at least four feet wide and four inches thick shall be
constructed on both sides of each street at least four and one-half feet from
and at least four inches above the backs of the curbs. Sidewalks shall be
located one foot inside the street right-of-way. Sidewalks shall be constructed
along all streets bordering the subdivision.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-10 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A) Sanitary sewers. When a subdivision is located within the service area
of a public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately each
building lot.
      (1)   Public sanitary sewers shall be located in the north or west
boulevard (between curb and sidewalk) within the street right-of-way or in a
15-foot easement behind the sidewalk within the house setback area. Parallel
sewer lines along the street may be used. Sanitary sewers shall not be located
in the rear yard.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall the entrance of stormwater or
groundwater to the sanitary sewers be permitted.
      (3)   All sanitary sewer collections and disposal systems shall comply
with the ordinances of the village and the requirements of the state’s
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Private sewage disposal systems. Where no public sanitary sewerage
system is available, individual sanitary disposal systems shall be installed to
service individual dwelling units. These sanitary disposal systems shall be
installed in accordance with the latest revised edition of the state’s Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and private sewage disposal code promulgated by
the state’s Department of Public Health. Sufficient area shall be provided to
accommodate two seepage fields. (See also §
12-8-4(A) pertaining to lot sizes.)
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-11 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Public water supply.
      (1)   Water mains not less than six inches in diameter shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision. Larger diameter pipes may be
required by the village to provide for future transmission needs, in which
case, the village shall pay any additional costs.
      (2)   Every water supply system shall be designed in such a manner as to
provide an area fire flow meeting the requirements established by the Fire
Safety Division of the Fire Department. Water mains larger than six inches in
diameter shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense if needed to provide
the area fire flow required by the Insurance Services Office guild for
determination of required fire flow. A minimum of 1,000 gallons per minute with
a residual pressure of 20 pounds per square inch shall be required. Fire
hydrants with shut-off valves at each hydrant shall be installed throughout the
entire system at maximum intervals of 400 feet or less if required by the Fire
Protection District. All fire hydrants shall be three nozzle hydrants with
threads as specified by the village’s Fire Department and shall have flow
characteristics similar to those of a five and one-quarter inch hydrant valve.
   (B)   Private water supply. When a public water supply is not feasible §
12-3-3(A)(2), and the subdivision is outside the corporate limits of the
village, a private well may be used. Wells shall be constructed according to
the state’s Water Well Pump Installation Code.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-12 ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION.
   The underground electric distribution system shall be installed on utility
easements along front lot lines. Transformers shall normally be placed on every
other lot line with secondary conductors and distribution pedestals installed
on the opposite side of the street. In some instances, transformers may be
installed on both sides of the street. All primary and secondary cables shall
be in conduit.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-13 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lights shall be installed along public streets in the village by the
subdivider at all intersections and at 500-foot intervals.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-8-14 PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Due consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably
located and of adequate size for playgrounds and parks for local or
neighborhood use as well as public service areas.
   (B)   When a proposed school, neighborhood park, electric substation, water
storage tank, recreation area, or public access to water frontage shown in the
Official Plan, is located in whole or part in a proposed subdivision, the
Village Board may require, as a condition of final plat approval, that such
space within the subdivision be reserved and not developed for a period not to
exceed one year from the date of such final plat approval. Within the one year
period, the appropriate public agency may acquire the reserved property in the
manner provided by law. If the reserved site is not acquired and no legal
action is filed within the one-year period, the reservation shall become void
and the site previously reserved may then be used for other purposes.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 9: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
12-9-1   Purpose
   
12-9-2   Location map
   
12-9-3   Final plat submission requirements
   
12-9-4   Review process
   
12-9-5   Submission of minor subdivision plat to the Village Board
   
12-9-6   Village Board approval
   
12-9-7   Recording the minor subdivision plat
   
12-9-8   Limitations of minor subdivisions
§ 12-9-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A minor subdivision is the creation of a total of up to four lots
(counting the original tract from which the lots are created) which front along
an existing public road.
   (B)   The minor subdivision is designed to allow the sale of said lots
without the delay and expense of the conventional subdivision process.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-2 LOCATION MAP.
   (A)   Location map submission requirements. The location map shall consist
of data added to an existing base map of a suitable scale covering an area of
at least one mile radius from the tract proposed for development. The location
map shall show the following information:
      (1)   Title of proposed subdivision;
      (2)   North point, scale, and date;
      (3)   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider,
engineer, and registered land surveyor with the name and address of the contact
person to whom any notice is to be sent;
      (4)   Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider
with approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage;
      (5)   Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be
subdivided;
      (6)   Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided;
      (7)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (8)   Method of sewage disposal;
      (9)   Method of water supply;
      (10)   Electric service provider;
      (11)   Fire protection district; and
      (12)   School district.
   (B)   Location map review process.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit 13 prints of the location map to the
Zoning Administrator according to the filing deadline and review schedule
established by the Planning Committee.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print and distribute the
remainder as follows:
         (a)   Two prints to the Planning Committee;
         (b)   One print to the Water Department;
         (c)   One print to the Village Engineer;
         (d)   One print to the Village Clerk;
         (e)   One print to the Springfield Fire Protection District;
         (f)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways, if
applicable;
         (g)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
         (h)   One print to the County Soil and Water Conservation District;
         (i)   One print to the appropriate school district;
         (j)   One print to the electric utility serving the area; and
         (k)   One print to the gas utility serving the area.
      (3)   The entities listed in division (B)(2) shall transmit their
comments on suitability of the site in writing to the Planning Committee within
one week of receipt.
      (4)   The Planning Committee shall review the suitability of the site
based on comments received and the suitability criteria outlined in §
12-3-3. The Planning Committee shall either approve or disapprove the location
map based on the suitability of the site at its next regularly scheduled
meeting after the plan was filed. If the location map is disapproved, the
owners shall be informed in writing of the noncompliance found.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-3 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Final plat submission requirements.
      (1)   The final plat shall be consistent with the current zoning district
classification of the property.
      (2)   The following shall be submitted on a plan drawn to a scale of no
more than 100 feet to the inch or in accompanying documents:
         (a)   North point, scale, and date of preparation and any revisions;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, engineer, and registered land
surveyor;
         (c)   Total acreage;
         (d)   Lot numbers;
         (e)   Existing utilities and drainage courses within and adjacent to
the site;
         (f)   Location of all present property lines, section lines, streets,
buildings, and watercourses within the area and within 100 feet of the area;
         (g)   Location of proposed lots, setback lines, and utility easements;
         (h)   Contours referring to the United States Geological Survey datum
with intervals of two feet or less unless a greater interval is required
because of terrain. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Committee in
its sole discretion. Any such waiver shall be noted on the final plat and
signed by the Chairperson of the Planning Committee;
         (i)   If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of
this final plat by the Village of Grandview does not constitute a guarantee
that well water is of adequate quantity or quality for residential needs or
that a suitable sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot.” Any
guarantees are the subdivider’s responsibility;
         (j)   A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is
located in a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
         (k)   A notation stating any setback required through covenants if the
setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district.
   (B)   Accompanying documents. The following documents shall accompany the
final plat:
      (1)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land, or his or her duly authorized attorney, as required by state
statutes concerning drainage;
      (2)   Notarized acknowledgement of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat
itself;
      (3)   The certificate of a registered Illinois land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat;
      (4)   Exhibit showing the location of wells and seepage field areas (must
be large enough to accommodate two seepage fields) on each lot; and
      (5)   Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of this
title.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-4 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file 11 prints of the minor subdivision in the
office of the Zoning Administrator with a filing fee of $100 to be deposited to
the appropriate village account. The subdivision will be reviewed according to
the filing deadline and review schedule established by the Planning Committee.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and
shall distribute the prints as follows:
         (a)   Two prints to the Planning Committee;
         (b)   One print to the Water Department;
         (c)   One print to the Village Engineer;
         (d)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways;
         (e)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
         (f)   One print to the Village Clerk;
         (g)   One print to the Springfield Fire Protection District;
         (h)   One print to the electric utility serving the area; and
         (i)   One print to the gas utility serving the area.
      (2)   The reviewing entities shall transmit any comments or requirements
to the Planning Committee within seven calendar days of receipt.
   (C)   The Planning Committee shall recommend approval or disapproval no
later than 30 days after the plan was filed with Village Clerk. Failure to act
by the end of said second regularly scheduled meeting shall constitute a
recommendation of disapproval.
      (1)   Disapproval. If the Planning Committee finds that the minor
subdivision plat does not meet the requirements of this title, it shall specify
its disapproval in writing and state the noncompliance found.
      (2)   Approval. If the Planning Committee finds that the minor
subdivision plat meets the requirements of this title, the subdivider shall
submit the original and two prints to the Planning Committee. The following
shall be printed or stamped on the original plat and prints and signed by the
Chairperson of the Planning Committee: “The Plat of this subdivision is
recommended to the Village Board for approval by the Grandview Planning
Committee subject to the certifications set forth in §
12-9-5.”
   By:                                                       
         Chairperson
   Dated:                                                   
         Grandview Planning Committee
   (D)   The Planning Committee shall transmit the endorsed original plat and
two prints to the Zoning Administrator for immediate reference to the Village
Board.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-5 SUBMISSION OF MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT TO THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the endorsed original minor subdivision plat and two
prints, the Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and shall
deliver one print to the Village Engineer.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall deliver the original minor subdivision
plat to the Village Board at its next regular session after receiving the
documents from the Planning Committee.
   (C)   The minor subdivision plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the
Village Board and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the
following have been received:
      (1)   Written certification from the Village Engineer that the plat has
been reviewed and any required public improvements have been approved as
described in §
12-6-7 or, in lieu of construction, a security has been provided as described
in 12-6-5.
      (2)   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent.
   (D)   If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years
from Planning Committee approval, the existing approvals and recommendations
shall expire and the plat must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new minor
subdivision.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-6 VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL.
   When the requirements of §§
12-9-4 and
12-9-5 have been met, the Village Board may by resolution approve the minor
subdivision plat and authorize the President to sign the plat for and in the
name of the village, with the Village Clerk attesting to it. The Village Clerk
shall retain one print on file.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-7 RECORDING THE MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   When the minor subdivision plat has been approved by the Village Board
and signed by the President and Village Clerk, the original tracing shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   If the minor subdivision plat is not recorded within two years after
approval by the Village Board, the plat must be resubmitted to the Planning
Committee to determine if any changes in the plat are needed to meet the
requirements of this title. No title to any lots shall be conveyed until the
original tracing is recorded.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-9-8 LIMITATIONS OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Only one minor subdivision shall be allowed for any parcel of record as of
the date of this title. If three lots have been created from a parcel of record
after said date, all additional divisions at a later time shall follow
conventional subdividing procedures.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 10: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
12-10-1   Purpose
   
12-10-2   Submission requirements
   
12-10-3   Standards and requirements
   
12-10-4   Review process
   
12-10-5   Committee action
   
12-10-6   Review by the Village Board
   
12-10-7   Construction plans
   
12-10-8   Construction and securities
§ 12-10-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The large scale development site plan is intended to provide a
detailed layout of buildings, utilities, other improvements and construction
details to ensure that village public health and safety standards and
subdivision and zoning requirements are met.
   (B)   The permitted uses and densities and other requirements of the site’s
existing zoning district shall be met; however, yard and other bulk
requirements can be varied within the site if more than one building is
proposed.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-2 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The site plan shall include the following information at a scale of no more
than 100 feet to the inch:
   (A)   Title of the development;
   (B)   North point, scale, and date;
   (C)   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider, and
engineer. A contact person should be designated;
   (D)   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles;
   (E)   Acreage;
   (F)   On-site vehicular circulation;
   (G)   Parking;
   (H)   Sidewalks;
   (I)   Sewer distribution;
   (J)   Site grading;
   (K)   Storm drainage;
   (L)   Location of structures;
   (M)   Water distribution and size of mains;
   (N)   Location of fire hydrants and valves;
   (O)   Street profiles and typical cross-sections;
   (P)   Yard setbacks;
   (Q)   Landscape plans;
   (R)   Location of outdoor lighting and signs;
   (S)   Traffic analysis if more than 200 cars are to be accommodated on site;
and
   (T)   Seal and signature of a registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-3 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The plans must comply with all standards and requirements of
applicable village codes including land subdivision regulations, zoning
ordinance, Arterial Roadway Network Plan, and any building, housing, and fire
codes.
   (B)   The following exceptions shall be observed.
      (1)   Yard requirements.
         (a)   For all residential developments.
 
Front yard 30 feet
Rear yard  20 feet
Side yard  20 feet each
 
         (b)   For all Commercial and Industrial Districts.
 
Front yard 20 feet
Rear yard  15 feet
Side yard  15 feet each
 
         (c)   Yard area shall be open area and not be used for parking.
         (d)   When a commercial or industrial development abuts or adjoins a
Residential District on a side or rear yard, an additional ten feet shall be
required for each yard that abuts or adjoins a Residential District. The
proposed commercial or industrial development shall be screened on each side
abutting or adjoining a Residential District by a wall, opaque fence, or
densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet in height.
         (e)   For all developments, the front yard shall be that area fronting
a public street and which contains the main entrance to the main building or
development. Only one front yard shall be required for each development.
      (2)   Pavement width. Streets and drives within the development shall be
of sufficient width to accommodate unimpeded movement of fire vehicles.
Pavement width shall vary depending upon parking along the street and direction
of vehicle movement.
      (3)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall provide pedestrian movement within the
development and to existing public streets or sidewalks. Sidewalks shall also
be constructed along streets adjoining the development. Sidewalks shall be a
minimum of four feet wide, four inches thick, and be constructed of Portland
cement concrete.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-4 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The developer shall file 13 copies of the site plan of the proposed
development in the office of the Zoning Administrator with a filing fee of $100
to be deposited in the appropriate village account. The site plan will be
reviewed according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by
the Planning Committee.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain four prints on file and
distribute the prints as follows:
         (a)   Two prints to the Planning Committee;
         (b)   One print to the Water Department;
         (c)   One print to the Village Engineer;
         (d)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways;
         (e)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
         (f)   One print to the Village Clerk;
         (g)   One print to the Springfield Fire Protection District;
         (h)   One print to the electric utility serving the area; and
         (i)   One print to the gas utility serving the area.
      (2)   The reviewing entities shall review the plans for conformance with
village codes and transmit any comments or requirements in writing to the
Planning Committee within seven calendar days of receipt.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-5 COMMITTEE ACTION.
   (A)   Recommendation of approval.
      (1)   If the Planning Committee finds (i) that the site plan meets the
requirements of this title; (ii) that the site plan meets the requirements of
other village ordinances pertaining to zoning, building, and fire safety; and
(iii) utilities will be adequate, the Planning Committee shall indicate a
recommendation for approval on three copies of the plan in substantially the
following language: “This large scale development is recommended for approval
by the Grandview Planning Committee.”
By:                                              
Date:                                          
      (2)   The prints so endorsed shall be forwarded to the Village Board for
further disposition, along with minutes of the meeting at which the plans were
approved.
   (B)   Recommendation of disapproval.
      (1)   If the Planning Committee does not make the findings in division
(A) above, it shall inform the developer of its findings in writing and state
the non-compliance found, and shall endorse three copies of the site plan with
its recommendation of disapproval, and shall forward the plans to the Village
Board for further disposition, along with minutes of the meeting at which the
plans were disapproved.
      (2)   If the developer desires to amend the disapproved large scale plans
prior to consideration by the Village Board, the developer shall submit 11
prints of the amended plan to the Zoning Administrator, which shall be reviewed
according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by the
Planning Committee. No filing fee shall be necessary. The Zoning Administrator
shall transmit copies of the amended plan as described in §
12-10-4 and review will proceed as indicated in said section.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-6 REVIEW BY THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   The large scale development plans shall be reviewed by the Village Board as
soon as practicable after review by the Planning Committee. The developer may
appear and be heard at the Village Board meeting at which the large scale
development plan is considered. The Village Board shall approve or disapprove
the plan by ordinance or resolution; and the President shall endorse the large
scale development plan in the same manner as prescribed herein for subdivision
preliminary plans. Approved plans shall expire, if not completed in the same
manner as set forth herein for final subdivision plats.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-7 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   The developer shall submit construction plans for private drives, streets,
sidewalks, grading, drainage, and utilities to the Village Engineer for review
in the same manner and for the same review and inspection fees as prescribed
herein for subdivision plats.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-10-8 CONSTRUCTION AND SECURITIES.
   No building permits shall be issued for any structure unless the large scale
development plan has been approved by the Village Board and construction work
either have been installed according to the approved construction plans or a
security provided in the same manner as set forth in this title for final plats
of subdivision. Security for completion of private drives, streets, grading,
and drainage shall not be required for purely residential developments
containing less than eight living units; however, utilities and other
facilities serving a public function must be built or security provided.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 11: TRACT SURVEYS
Section
   
12-11-1   Purpose
   
12-11-2   Submission requirements
   
12-11-3   Review process
   
12-11-4   Recording the tract survey
§ 12-11-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Tract survey approval shall be required as set forth in §
12-2-2.
   (B)   Tract survey approval is designed to ensure that all divisions of land
comply with the State Plats Act, this title, and the appropriate zoning
ordinances.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-11-2 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   When a tract survey is required by this title, the following shall be
submitted:
   (A)   Land survey; and
   (B)   Certification by a professional state land surveyor, together with the
surveyor’s seal, attesting to the accuracy of the survey.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-11-3 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Five copies of the tract survey shall be submitted to the Plats
Officer accompanied by the appropriate fee.
   (B)   The Plats Officer shall review the survey to ensure that it conforms
to the pertinent requirements of this title and applicable zoning regulations.
The owner shall be notified of tract survey approval or disapproval within one
working day.
      (1)   Disapproval. If the Plats Officer finds that the tract survey does
not meet the requirements of this code, the disapproval and noncompliance found
shall be specified in writing.
      (2)   Approval. If the Plats Officer finds that the tract survey does
meet the requirements of this code, the following shall be printed or stamped
on the original and prints and signed by the Plats Officer:
County of Sangamon         )
                     )   SS.
State of Illinois            )
   I, Sangamon County Plats Officer, do hereby approve tins tract survey this
         day of                     , 20       .
                                                                                   
                  Sangamon County Plats Officer
   (C)   The Plats Officer shall keep one copy and transmit four copies of the
approved tract survey to the owner for recording.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 12-11-4 RECORDING THE TRACT SURVEY.
   After the tract survey has been approved, the original shall be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder of Deeds. If the tract survey is not recorded
within 180 days of Plats Officer approval, the approval shall be null and void.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 9-21-2004)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01            1-1-3
5 ILCS 70/1.02            1-1-3
5 ILCS 70/1.03            1-1-3
5 ILCS 70/1.04            1-1-3
5 ILCS 70/1.05            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.07            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.08            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.09            1-1-3
5 ILCS 70/1.10            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.11            1-1-3
5 ILCS 70/1.12            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.15            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.16            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.17            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.20            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.24            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.28            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/1.29            1-3-1
5 ILCS 70/2               1-1-3
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.      1-13-4
5 ILCS 140/1.1 et seq.    1-12-1
5 ILCS 140/7              1-12-1
5 ILCS 140/11.5           1-12-13
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.  1-3-1
                          1-13-1;
5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.      1-13-2;
                          1-13-10
5 ILCS 315/3              1-11-1
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.    1-12-19
10 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       6-3-1
10 ILCS 5/1-3             1-11-1
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4           1-11-1
10 ILCS 5/9-3             1-11-1
15 ILCS 205/7             1-12-1
20 ILCS 700/4002          1-12-19
20 ILCS 3305/4            6-2-15
20 ILCS 3305/11           6-2-16
20 ILCS 3855/1-1 et seq.  1-14-2
20 ILCS 3855/1-92         1-14-1;
                          1-14-7
20 ILCS 3855/1-92 et seq. 1-14-2
23 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq.   4-1-1
30 ILCS 535/55            1-12-19
35 ILCS 205/35            12-1-4
35 ILCS 636/5-50          3-5-4
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.      3-2-2
50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.     1-12-19
65 ILCS 5                 1-3-1
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2           1-3-1
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1           10-10-1
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1         1-1-99;
                          6-6-99
65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1         1-4-4
65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq. 1-4-12
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1           10-2-1;
                          10-3-1
65 ILCS 5/3.15-25         6-1-4
                          3-3-1—
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2          3-3-3;
                          3-4-5
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(2)       3-3-2
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(3)       3-3-1
65 ILCS 5/8-11-17         3-4-2;
                          3-4-5
65 ILCS 5/8-11-22         3-3-15
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24         3-3-25,
                          3-3-26
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6          6-2-15
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5        11-8-1;
                          11-8-3
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12        10-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-13           11-2-5
65 ILCS 5/11-13-2         11-2-5
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14        11-2-11
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.1      11-2-4
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19        11-3-3
65 ILCS 5/11-19-1         4-7-8
                          5-1-3;
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7         5-1-99;
                          5-2-3;
                          5-2-5
65 ILCS 5/11-21.5-5       1-12-19
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2         10-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8         10-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1         5-6-2
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2         5-6-2;
                          10-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-31-3         5-6-2
65 ILCS 5/11-31.1 et seq. 1-4-1
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3         5-7-1
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2         5-2-2
65 ILCS 5/11-60-7         5-2-2
65 ILCS 6/1-2-1           1-1-99
65 ILCS 205/0.01          12-1-4
65 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.  12-2-2
75 ILCS 70/1 et seq.      1-12-19
105 ILCS 10/1 et seq.     1-12-19
110 ILCS 979/50           1-12-19
210 ILCS 28/1 et seq.     1-12-19
220 ILCS 5/2-101          1-14-2
220 ILCS 5/5-108          1-12-19
220 ILCS 5/16-102         1-14-2
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.     4-2-2
305 ILCS 20/18            1-14-2
410 ILCS 325/1 et seq.    1-12-19
410 ILCS 525/4            1-12-19
420 ILCS 44/30            1-12-19
425 ILCS 35/1             6-7-1
425 ILCS 35/2.1           6-7-3
425 ILCS 35/2.2           6-7-3
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.      6-3-1
625 ILCS 4/201 et seq.    5-7-2;
                          5-7-3
625 ILCS 5/1-101.05       5-7-1
625 ILCS 5/1-188          1-3-1
625 ILCS 5/11-208.7(b)    7-9-2
625 ILCS 5/11-212         1-12-19
720 ILCS 570/100          6-4-21
720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.    6-4-21
725 ILCS 124/10           1-12-19
725 ILCS 124/15           1-12-19
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.  6-6-99
765 ILCS 77/70 et seq.    1-12-19
765 ILCS 205/0.01         12-1-4
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq. 12-2-2
815 ILCS 505/2HH          1-14-4;
                          1-14-6
820 ILCS 130/5            11-12-1
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
10-03    9-7-2010    6-2-1
10-05    11-16-2010  1-7-37
22-03    6-1-2022    6-4-5
22-05    8-2-2022    3-1-4
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     10-4-1;
229      - -         10-4-3;
                     10-4-5—
                     10-4-7
69       1-4-1954    10-1-1
75       7-18-1955   6-4-2
77       4-2-1956    8-1-2
78       5-7-1956    6-4-3
82       10-1-1956   6-4-3
88       7-21-1958   8-1-1;
                     8-1-99
                     4-8-1—
103      10-15-1963  4-8-7;
                     4-8-99
                     7-1-1—
                     7-1-5;
                     7-2-1—
                     7-2-3;
                     7-3-1—
                     7-3-7;
                     7-4-1—
                     7-4-4;
                     7-4-6—
104      10-15-1963  7-4-12;
                     7-4-14;
                     7-4-25—
                     7-4-30;
                     7-4-45—
                     7-4-52;
                     7-7-1—
                     7-7-7;
                     7-8-1—
                     7-8-16
109      12-1-1964   2-1-1—
                     2-1-5
163      11-27-1973  Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
170      4-15-1975   8-5-1;
                     8-5-99
185      5-10-1977   Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. III
187      7-19-1977   6-4-1;
                     6-4-99
                     7-2-4—
190      3-28-1978   7-2-19;
                     7-5-1—
                     7-5-16
194      6-26-1979   7-5-17;
                     7-5-99
203      10-28-1980  1-6-3
                     10-4-1—
223      8-23-1983   10-4-9;
                     10-4-99
227      6-26-1984   Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
231      8-28-1984   1-7-1
240      3-26-1985   1-5-1
                     10-8-1—
247      5-13-1986   10-8-6;
                     10-8-99
248      5-13-1986   7-4-13
250      5-13-1986   Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
262      11-10-1987  8-2-3
                     6-5-1—
264      1-12-1988   6-5-4;
                     6-5-99
280      - -1989     Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
                     11-1-1;
                     11-1-2;
                     11-2-1—
                     11-2-3;
                     11-2-99;
                     11-3-1—
                     11-3-5;
                     11-4-1—
282      8-15-1989   11-4-5;
                     11-5-1;
                     11-5-2;
                     11-5-4—
                     11-5-7;
                     11-6-1—
                     11-6-4;
                     11-7-1—
                     11-7-6
284      12-19-1989  1-5-2
286      3-6-1990    Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
288      7-17-1990   1-6-1
                     8-6-1—
291      9-11-1990   8-6-5;
                     8-6-99
312      10-13-1992  11-2-10
314      2-9-1993    5-3-10;
                     5-3-99
315      2-9-1993    1-6-2
316      3-9-1993    11-5-3
                     6-6-1—
326      7-5-1994    6-6-4;
                     6-6-99
341      6-6-1995    Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. III
                     8-2-1—
349      5-21-1996   8-2-9;
                     8-2-99
351      5-21-1996   Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
353      7-16-1996   10-5-1—
                     10-5-4
                     3-4-1—
97-11    10-21-1997  3-4-9;
                     3-4-99
                     4-4-1—
97-12    11-18-1997  4-4-8;
                     4-4-99
                     8-7-1;
98-27    - -1998     8-7-4;
                     8-7-6;
                     8-7-7
98-15    3-3-1998    3-1-2
98-22    6-2-1998    1-7-35
98-26    9-15-1998   11-1-1
99-30    4-20-1999   3-1-15—
                     3-1-30
                     4-6-1;
99-37    9-7-1999    4-6-2;
                     4-6-99
99-39    12-10-1999  1-7-37
                     8-3-1—
2000-49  11-7-2000   8-3-4;
                     8-3-99
2000-50  11-21-2000  3-3-3;
                     3-3-99
2001-01  2-21-2001   3-2-1—
                     3-2-16
01-08    8-21-2001   8-7-8
                     9-3-1—
03-03    4-15-2003   9-3-5;
                     9-3-99
04-      - -2004     8-7-3;
                     8-7-5
                     10-6-1;
04-02    3-16-2004   10-6-3;
                     10-6-99
                     1-11-1—
04-04    5-4-2004    1-11-6;
                     1-11-99
                     5-7-1—
04-07    7-6-2004    5-7-6;
                     5-7-99
                     12-1-1—
                     12-1-5;
                     12-2-1—
                     12-2-3;
                     12-2-99;
                     12-3-1—
                     12-3-5;
                     12-4-1—
                     12-4-6;
                     12-5-1—
                     12-5-3;
04-09    9-21-2004   12-6-1—
                     12-6-7;
                     12-7-1—
                     12-7-7;
                     12-8-1—
                     12-8-14;
                     12-9-1—
                     12-9-8;
                     12-10-1—
                     12-10-8;
                     12-11-1—
                     12-11-4
05-03    4-19-2005   1-7-37
05-11    10-18-2005  1-9-1—
                     1-9-14
                     5-6-1—
06-04    5-2-2006    5-6-3;
                     5-6-99
-        9-5-2006    7-4-13
06-11    9-5-2006    Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. IV
                     11-5-2;
07-03    5-15-2007   11-8-1—
                     11-8-7;
                     11-8-99
                     4-5-1—
07-15    12-18-2007  4-5-10;
                     4-5-99
                     10-2-1—
08-02    5-20-2008   10-2-5;
                     10-2-99
                     5-2-1—
2008-08  7-2-2008    5-2-7;
                     5-2-99
08-09    10-21-2008  1-13-25—
                     1-13-31
09-05    7-21-2009   Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. I
10-01    1-5-2010    1-12-1—
                     1-12-19
10-02    1-29-2010   3-1-3
10-03    3-4-2010    3-1-1
10-06    4-6-2010    3-3-1
10-07    4-6-2010    3-3-2
10-16    9-9-2010    7-5-18;
                     7-5-99
                     4-7-1—
10-17    11-2-2010   4-7-10;
                     4-7-99
10-18    11-16-2010  1-6-1
                     5-4-1—
11-01    1-4-2011    5-4-4;
                     5-4-99
                     6-3-1—
11-02    1-4-2011    6-3-29;
                     6-3-99
11-04    2-9-2011    1-4-1—
                     1-4-12
11-05    3-1-2011    1-10-1
                     9-1-2;
                     9-1-4—
11-15    5-17-2011   9-1-9;
                     9-1-12;
                     9-1-14;
                     9-1-99
                     5-3-1—
11-10    8-2-2011    5-3-8;
                     5-3-99
                     5-5-1—
11-12    9-6-2011    5-5-7;
                     5-5-99
11-13    11-15-2011  6-3-3
12-17    4-17-2012   7-9-1—
                     7-9-7
                     4-2-1—
12-09    7-17-2012   4-2-3;
                     4-2-99
                     9-2-1—
12-10    7-31-2012   9-2-5;
                     9-2-99
                     6-6-15—
12-14    12-4-2012   6-6-18;
                     6-6-99
13-02    2-19-2013   1-14-1—
                     1-14-9
13-03    3-5-2013    4-3-1—
                     4-3-8
                     10-9-1—
13-11    10-1-2013   10-9-8;
                     10-9-99
                     4-1-1—
14-02    2-18-2014   4-1-27;
                     4-1-99
                     10-10-1—
14-05    4-1-2014    10-10-12;
                     10-10-99
14-06    5-6-2014    1-13-1—
                     1-13-10
15-01    1-6-2015    7-5-19
15-02    1-6-2015    8-1-3;
                     8-1-99
15-07    3-3-2015    9-1-15;
                     9-1-99
                     11-2-9;
15-13    7-7-2015    11-2-11;
                     11-5-8
                     10-7-1—
15-14    7-7-2015    10-7-8;
                     10-7-99
                     10-3-1—
15-19    10-6-2015   10-3-4;
                     10-3-99
15-20    11-3-2015   9-1-10;
                     9-1-13
17-03    3-7-2016    1-7-15—
                     1-7-22
16-01    3-15-2016   4-1-10
16-02    5-3-2016    5-3-9
16-03    5-3-2016    6-3-8
16-06    7-5-2016    11-5-2
17-01    1-17-2017   9-1-11
17-02    1-17-2017   4-1-10
17-12    9-5-2017    9-1-3
17-13    9-5-2017    10-6-2;
                     10-6-4
17-15    12-5-2017   1-7-36
17-16    12-5-2017   1-6-4
18-07    7-3-2018    8-4-1—
                     8-4-12
05       8-6-2019    11-4-4
19-10    9-3-2019    3-3-15;
                     3-3-16
19-11    11-19-2019  3-3-17
20-01    3-3-2020    6-4-4;
                     6-4-99
                     6-2-15—
20-03    4-7-2020    6-2-19;
                     6-2-99
20-05    5-5-2020    4-5-6
21-02    1-5-2021    3-1-45—
                     3-1-54
21-03    3-2-2021    11-3-2
                     7-4-53—
21-07    5-4-2021    7-4-56;
                     7-4-99
                     5-8-1—
21-10    7-20-2021   5-8-8;
                     5-8-99
21-11    7-20-2021   4-1-10
21-12    7-20-2021   3-5-1—
                     3-5-5
                     6-7-1—
21-13    8-3-2021    6-7-3;
                     6-7-99
21-14    8-3-2021    4-4-5;
                     4-4-99
21-18    12-7-2021   4-1-10
21-20    12-21-2021  8-7-2
22-04    3-15-2022   7-4-5;
                     7-4-99
                     6-4-20—
22-05    3-15-2022   6-4-25;
                     6-4-99
22-07    5-4-2022    1-8-1
                     5-1-1—
22-08    7-19-2022   5-1-3;
                     5-1-99
22-09    7-19-2022   1-7-2
22-10    8-16-2022   4-4-5
22-12    9-6-2022    1-6-2
22-14    10-18-2022  1-7-3
22-19    12-6-2022   1-8-2
23-02    2-21-2023   6-3-3
23-05    6-6-2023    4-1-15
23-06    8-15-2023   6-3-99
23-08    12-5-2023   Title 7,
                     Ch. 6, Schd. II
24-01    3-5-2024    11-2-4
                     7-9-1;
                     7-9-2;
24-03    3-5-2024    7-9-7;
                     7-9-8;
                     7-9-9
24-02    3-19-2024   11-2-7
24-04    4-16-2024   9-1-1
24-10    9-3-2024    9-1-1
24-11    11-5-2024   Adopting Ordinance
24-12    11-5-2024   6-1-1—
                     6-1-6
24-14    - -2024     Title 7, Ch. 6, Schd. II;
                     Title 7, Ch. 6, Schd. III
24-16    11-19-2024  10-2-3;
                     10-3-4
                     4-1-15;
24-17    11-19-2024  5-9-1;
                     5-9-2;
                     5-9-99
24-18    12-3-2024   3-3-25—
                     3-3-27
                     10-6-3;
                     10-7-7;
                     10-8-6;
24-19    12-17-2024  10-10-11;
                     11-2-2—
                     11-2-11;
                     11-5-8;
                     11-8-4
                    
 
 
