GRAND RIDGE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-02, passed 7-15-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
#6
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Village President Jared Simons
Trustees          Steven Fulkerson
                 Anne Hinterlong
                 Kim Olney
                 Dennis Rockey
                 Cindi Koetz
                 John Hettel
Village Clerk     Amanda Jaegle
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Conflicting provisions
   
10.06   Amendments to code
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Technical codes
   
10.14   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Grand Ridge shall be designated
as the Village Code of Grande Ridge and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. LaSalle County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of LaSalle County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made to a village employee by title only,
this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the Village of
Grand Ridge.”
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town, municipality, or county of
this state, and all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   MAYOR. The Village President of the Village of Grand Ridge.
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Grand Ridge”.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser, and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   RETAILER. The sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grand Ridge.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The President of the village may be referred to as
“Mayor” or “President.”
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. The sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transaction Act, 815 ILCS 333/1 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.06 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.13 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.14 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
code of ordinances shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 3-19-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
Corporate Seal
   
11.01   Form and description
   
11.02   Custody
CORPORATE SEAL
§ 11.01 FORM AND DESCRIPTION.
   The Seal, circular in form, herein described and used by the village with
the inscription “Village of Grand Ridge, Illinois, Incorporated 1891" around
the outer edge of said Seal and in the interior and center of the circle so
formed, the words, “Village Seal” shall be and is hereby declared to be the
Seal of the village. The Seal shall be used in all cases where it shall be
required by the laws of the United States, the laws of any of the several
states, and the ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 11.02 CUSTODY.
   The Corporate Seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXES AND FEES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Members; vacancies
   
30.02   Meetings
   
30.03   Rules and order of business
   
30.04   Legislative body
   
30.05   Quorum
   
30.06   Voting; reconsideration
   
30.07   Powers
   
30.08   Compensation
   
30.09   Appointment of committees
   
30.10   Duties of standing committees
   
30.11   Territorial jurisdiction
   
30.12   Ordinances
   
30.13   Municipal year; fiscal year
   
30.14   Annual appropriation ordinance
   
30.15   Tax levies
§ 30.01 MEMBERS; VACANCIES.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of six members, three of whom shall be
elected annually to hold office for a term of four years and until their
successors are elected and qualified. If any vacancy shall occur in the office
of Trustees by death, resignation, removal, or otherwise, such vacancy shall be
filled in accordance with the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees of the
village shall be held at the Village Hall as adopted by schedule from time to
time.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be
called by the President or any three members of the Board whenever in their
discretion it is deemed necessary in which event such meeting shall be called
in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et
seq.
   (C)   Open to public. All meetings, whether regular, special, rescheduled,
or reconvened shall be open to the public as provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 30.03 RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The Modern Rules of Order, current edition, shall govern the proceedings of
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.04 LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   The legislative and governing body of the village shall consist of the
President of the village and six Trustees elected for four-year terms according
to the method provided by statute who shall possess the qualifications for
office, be elected by the legal voters of the municipality, take the oath of
office, and perform the duties provided by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.05 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the Trustees elected shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, and may compel
the attendance of absentees, under the penalty prescribed herein.
   (B)   In case there be no quorum at any meeting of the Board of Trustees, it
shall be the duty of the President, if a majority of the members present so
direct, to order the Chief of Police or any police officer to immediately
arrest and bring in all absent members that can be found in the village who are
not unable through sickness to attend.
   (C)   Any member who purposely absents himself, herself, or themself from
the village to avoid attending any meeting of the Board, or who, being in the
village, conceals himself, herself, or themself from such officer or refuses to
be brought in when found, shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct and be
subjected to a fine of $75.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.06 VOTING; RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Each member of the Board of Trustees shall vote on all questions in
which he, she, or they is not personally interested, which may be brought
before the Board for its action in such manner as to require a vote to be taken
thereon.
   (B)   No vote of the Board of Trustees shall be reconsidered or rescinded at
a special meeting, unless at such special meeting there be present as large a
number of Trustees as were present when such vote was taken.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.07 POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have powers as set forth in the state
statutes, including the power to:
      (1)   Control the finances and property of the village;
      (2)   Appropriate money for village purposes only, and provide for
payment of debts and expenses of the village;
      (3)   Levy and collect taxes for general and special purposes on real and
personal property;
      (4)   Fix the amount, terms and manner of issuing and revoking licenses;
      (5)   Borrow money on the credit of the village for village purposes, and
issue bonds therefor, in such amounts and form, and on such conditions as it
shall prescribe, but shall not become indebted in any manner or for any purpose
to an amount, including existing indebtedness, in the aggregate to exceed
borrowing limits as set by state statute;
      (6)   Issue bonds in place of or to supply means to meet maturing bonds
or for the consolidation of funding of the same;
      (7)   Lay out, to establish, open, alter, widen, extend, grade, pave, or
otherwise improve streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, parks, and public
grounds, and vacate the same;
      (8)   Plant trees upon the streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, parks,
and public grounds;
      (9)   Regulate the use of streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, parks, and
public grounds;
      (10)   Prevent and remove encroachments or obstructions upon streets,
alleys, avenues, sidewalks, parks, and public grounds;
      (11)   Provide for the lighting of streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks,
parks, and public grounds;
      (12)   Provide for the cleansing of streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks,
parks, and public grounds;
      (13)   Regulate the openings therein for the laying of mains and pipes
for utilities, and the building and repairing of sewers, tunnels and drains;
      (14)   Regulate the use of sidewalks and all structures thereunder, and
to require the owner or occupant of any premises to keep the sidewalks in front
of, or along the same, free from obstructions;
      (15)   Regulate and prevent the throwing or depositing of ashes, offal,
dirt, garbage, or any offensive matter in, and to prevent injury to any street,
avenue, alley, or public ground;
      (16)   Provide for and regulate crosswalks, curbs, and gutters;
      (17)   Regulate and prevent the use of streets, sidewalks, and public
grounds for signs, sign posts, awnings, awning posts, telegraph poles, racks,
posting handbills and advertisements;
      (18)   Regulate and prohibit the exhibition or carrying of banners,
placards, advertisements, or handbills in the streets or public grounds, or
upon the sidewalks;
      (19)   Regulate and prevent the flying of flags, banners, or signs across
the streets or from houses;
      (20)   Regulate traffic and sales upon the streets, sidewalks, and public
places;
      (21)   Regulate the speed of vehicles, cars, and locomotives within the
limits of the village;
      (22)   Regulate the numbering of houses and lots;
      (23)   Name and change the name of any street, avenue, alley, or other
public place;
      (24)   Provide for and change the location, grade, and crossings of any
railroad;
      (25)   (a)   Require railroad companies to keep flagmen at railroad
crossings of streets, and provide protection against injury to persons and
property in the use of such railroads.
         (b)   Compel such railroads to raise or lower their railroad tracks to
conform to any grade which may, at any time be established by the village, and
where such tracks run lengthwise of any such street, alley or highway, to keep
their railroad tracks on a level with the street surface, and so that such
tracks may be crossed at any place on such street, alley, or highway.
         (c)   Compel and require railroad companies to make and keep open and
to keep in repair ditches, drains, sewers, and culverts along and under their
railroad tracks, so that filthy or stagnant pools of water cannot stand on
their grounds or right-of-way, and so that the natural drainage of adjacent
property shall not be impeded.
      (26)   Construct and keep in repair bridges, viaducts, and tunnels, and
to regulate the use thereof;
      (27)   Construct and keep in repair culverts, drains, sewers, and
cesspools, and to regulate the use thereof;
      (28)   Deepen, widen, dock, cover, wall, alter, or change the channel of
watercourses;
      (29)   Provide for the cleansing and purification of waters,
watercourses, and canals, and the draining or filling of ponds on private
property, whenever necessary to prevent or abate nuisances;
      (30)   License, tax, regulate, suppress, and prohibit hawkers, peddlers,
and pawnbrokers, keepers of ordinances, theatricals, and other exhibitions,
shows and amusements;
      (31)   License, tax, and regulate hackmen, draymen, omnibus drivers,
carters, cabmen, porters, expressmen, and all others pursuing like occupations,
and to prescribe their compensation;
      (32)   License, regulate, tax, and restrain runners for stages, cars,
public houses, or other things or persons;
      (33)   License, regulate, tax, or prohibit and suppress billiard,
bagatelle, pigeon hole, or any other tables or implements kept or used for a
similar purpose in any place of public resort, pin alleys, or ball alleys;
      (34)   Suppress gaming and gambling houses, lotteries, and all fraudulent
devices and practices for the purpose of gaming or obtaining money or property;
      (35)   Establish markets and market houses, and provide for the
regulation and use thereof;
      (36)   Regulate the sale of meats, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, lard,
vegetables, and all other provisions, and to provide for place and manner of
selling the same;
      (37)   Provide for the inspection and sealing of weights and measures;
      (38)   Enforce the keeping and use of proper weights and measures by
vendors;
      (39)   Regulate the construction, repairs and use of vaults, cisterns,
areas, hydrants, pumps, sewers, and gutters;
      (40)   Regulate places of amusement;
      (41)   Prevent intoxication, fighting, quarreling, dog fights, cock
fights, and all disorderly conduct;
      (42)   Regulate partition fences and party walls;
      (43)   Prescribe the manner of constructing stone, brick, and other
buildings, and construction of fire escapes therein;
      (44)   Regulate and prevent storage of gunpowder, tar, pitch, resin, coal
oil, benzine, turpentine, hemp, cotton, nitroglycerine, petroleum, or any of
the products thereof, and other combustible or explosive material, and the
building of bonfires; also to regulate and restrain the use of fireworks,
firecrackers, torpedoes, Roman candles, skyrockets, and other pyrotechnic
displays;
      (45)   Prescribe the duties and powers of a Chief of Police, police
officers, and watchmen;
      (46)   Use the county’s jail for the confinement of punishment of
offenders, subject to such conditions as are imposed by law, and with the
consent of the County Board;
      (47)   Provide for ordinances in regard to the relation between all the
officers and employees of the village in respect to each other, the village,
and the people;
      (48)   Prevent and suppress riots, routs, affrays, noises, disturbances,
and disorderly assemblies in any public or private place;
      (49)   Prohibit and punish cruelty to animals;
      (50)   Declare what shall be a nuisance, and to abate the same; and to
impose fines upon parties who may create, continue, or suffer nuisances to
exist;
      (51)   Appoint a Board of Health, and prescribe its powers and duties;
      (52)   Do all acts, make all regulations which may be necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of disease;
      (53)   Establish and regulate cemeteries within or without the village,
and acquire lands therefor, by purchase or otherwise, and cause cemeteries to
be removed, and prohibit their establishment within one mile of the village;
      (54)   Regulate, restrain, and prohibit the running at-large of horses,
cattle, swine, sheep, goats, geese, and dogs, and to impose a tax on dogs;
      (55)   Provide for the erection and care of public buildings necessary
for the use of the village;
      (56)   Tax, license, and regulate secondhand and junk stores; and
      (57)   Pass all ordinances, rules, and make all regulations, proper or
necessary, to carry into effect the powers granted to the village, with such
fines or penalties as the Board of Trustees shall deem proper.
   (B)   By condemnation or otherwise, to extend any street, alley, or highway
over or across, or to construct any sewer under or through any railroad track,
right-of-way, or land of any railroad company (within the village limits); but
where no compensation is made to such railroad company, the village shall
restore such railroad track, right-of-way or land to its former state, or in a
sufficient manner not to have impaired its usefulness.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to grant the use of or the
right to lay down any railroad tracks in any street of the village to any
steam, dummy, electric, cable, horse, or other railroad company, whether the
same shall be incorporated under any general or special law of the state now or
hereafter in force, except upon the petition of the owners of the land
representing more than one-half of the frontage of the street, or so much
thereof as is sought to be used for railroad purposes; and when the street or
part thereof sought to be used shall be more than one mile in extent, no
petition of land owners shall be valid unless the same shall be signed by the
owners of the land representing more than one-half of the frontage of each mile
and of the fraction of a mile if any in excess of the whole miles measuring
from the initial point named in such petition, of such street or the part
thereof sought to be used for such railroad purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of a Village Trustee shall be $2,500 (gross) per fiscal year and
shall be paid in quarterly installments. A Village Trustee shall also be paid
$60 for each special meeting of the Village Board attended by the Village
Trustee.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-8) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-17-2020; Ord. 2022-04, passed
10-18-2022)
§ 30.09 APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   It shall be the duty of the President, at the first regular meeting of the
Board in May of each year or as soon thereafter as practicable, to appoint
standing committees and the chairperson of each committee, each to consist of
three members of the Board, which committees shall be as follows:
   (A)   Committee on Finance;
   (B)   Committee on Streets and Alleys;
   (C)   Committee on Insurance;
   (D)   Committee on Police;
   (E)   Committee on Building Permits;
   (F)   Committee on Water;
   (G)   Committee on Health and Storm Drains; and
   (H)   Committee on Parks.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-9) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.10 DUTIES OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   It shall be the duties of the standing committees of the Board of
Trustees to maintain close watch of the affairs of their respective departments
of the village government. They shall report to the Board such facts as they
deem of importance in connection therewith.
   (B)   Each committee shall promptly and thoroughly investigate and report,
upon all matters referred to it by the Board, and the Chairperson thereof shall
promptly return to the Village Clerk all petitions, communications, and other
papers which have been delivered to him, her, or them.
   (C)   The committees shall perform such other and further duties as the
Board of Trustees may from time to time direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-10) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.11 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall have jurisdiction in and over all places within
one-half mile of the village limits for the purpose of enforcing health and
quarantine ordinances and the regulations thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-12) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/7-4-1
§ 30.12 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Publication, effect. All ordinances of the village imposing any fine,
penalty, imprisonment, or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, shall,
within one month after they are passed, be published in accordance with the
requirements of the state statutes. No such ordinance shall take effect until
ten days after it is so published. All other ordinances, orders, and
resolutions shall take effect from and after their passage, unless otherwise
provided therein..
   (B)   Passage over veto. In case the President shall veto any ordinance or
any part of an ordinance and return the same to the Board, together with his,
her, or their objections thereto, the vote by which the same was passed shall
be reconsidered by the Board. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all
the members elected to the Board of Trustees shall agree to pass the same, it
shall go into effect, notwithstanding the President may refuse to approve
thereof. The vote to pass the same over the President’s veto shall be taken by
yeas and nays, and entered on the journal.
   (C)   Requirement of yeas and nays. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon
the passage of all ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability
against the village, or for the expenditure or appropriation of its money and
in all other cases at the request of any member, which shall be entered on the
journal of the proceedings. A concurrence of a majority of all the members
elected to the Board of Trustees shall be necessary to the passage of any such
ordinance or proposition; provided it shall require three-fourths of all
Trustees elected to sell village real estate.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-13) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.13 MUNICIPAL YEAR; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   Municipal year. The municipal year of the village shall commence on
May 1 of each year.
   (B)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the village shall commence on May 1 of
each year.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-14) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.14 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   The Board of Trustees shall, within the first quarter of each fiscal year,
pass an ordinance to be termed the “Annual Appropriation Ordinance,” in which
such village authorities may appropriate such sum or sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
village, and any such ordinance shall specify the object and purpose for which
such appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated for each object or
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-15) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 30.15 TAX LEVIES.
   (A)   Annual tax levy. The Board of Trustees shall annually, in accordance
with state statutes, ascertain the total amount of appropriation for all
corporate purposes legally made, and to be collected from the tax levy of that
fiscal year, and by an ordinance specifying in detail the purpose for which
such appropriations are made, and the sum or amount appropriated for each
purpose, respectively, levy the amount so ascertained upon all the property
subject to taxation within the village, as the same is assessed and equalized
for state and county purposes for the current year. A certified copy of such
ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk.
   (B)   Special tax levy. Whenever the village is required to levy a tax for
the payment of any particular debt, appropriation, or liability of the same,
the tax for such purpose shall be included in the total amount assessed by the
Board of Trustees, and certified to the County Clerk as aforesaid, but the
Board of Trustees shall determine, in the ordinance making such assessment,
what proportion of such total amount shall be applicable to the payment of such
particular debt, appropriation, or liability. The Village Treasurer shall set
apart such proportion of the tax collected and paid to him, her, or them for
the payment of such particular debt, appropriation, or liability, and shall not
disburse the same for any other purpose until such debt, appropriation or
liability shall have been discharged.
   (C)   Uniformity of taxes. All taxes levied or assessed by the village,
except special assessments for local improvements, shall be uniform upon all
taxable property and persons within the limits of the village, and no property
shall be exempt therefrom other than such property as may be exempt from
taxation under the Constitution and general laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-18) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Records
   
31.002   Disposition of money
   
31.003   Oath of officers
   
31.004   Compensation
   
31.005   Conservators of the peace
President
   
31.020   Qualifications
   
31.021   Oath; bond
   
31.022   Duties and powers
   
31.023   Vacancy
   
31.024   Compensation
   
31.025   President Pro Tempore
Village Clerk
   
31.040   Qualifications
   
31.041   Oath; bond
   
31.042   Duties
   
31.043   Compensation
Village Treasurer
   
31.055   Appointment; qualifications
   
31.056   Oath; bond
   
31.057   Duties
   
31.058   Compensation
Village Attorney
   
31.070   Creation of office; appointment
   
31.071   Suits and actions
   
31.072   Judgments
   
31.073   Advice
   
31.074   Special assessments
   
31.075   Ordinances; documents
   
31.076   Additional duties
   
31.077   Compensation
History Committee
   
31.115   Creation; purpose
   
31.116   Members; terms; officers
   
31.117   Meetings
Personnel Policies
   
31.130   Officials and Employee Ethics Act
   
31.131   Discrimination
   
31.132   Sexual harassment
Meetings
   
31.145   Remote meetings; definition
   
31.146   Remote attendance policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 RECORDS.
   All records kept by an appointive officer, agent, or employee of the village
shall be open to inspection by the President, or any member of the Board of
Trustees at all times, even though such records are not required to be kept by
statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.002 DISPOSITION OF MONEY.
   Every officer or employee of the village shall transmit money received by
him, her, or them in his, her, or their official capacity to the Treasurer,
with a statement showing the source from which such money was received.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.003 OATH OF OFFICERS.
   Every elective officer of the village shall, before entering upon his, her,
or their duties, take the oath prescribed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.004 COMPENSATION.
   Each officer, agent, or employee of the village shall receive the
compensation established by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4) (Ord. passed 6-2-1981)
§ 31.005 CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE.
   Subject to the requirements of 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25(a), the Village
President, Board of Trustees, and members of the Police Department are hereby
declared to be conservators of the peace, with such powers to make arrests as
are given to conservators of the peace by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
PRESIDENT
§ 31.020 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the village. He, she,
or they shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, reside
within the village limits and shall hold his, her, or their office for four
years, and until his, her, or their successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.021 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   The President, before entering upon the duties of his, her, or their
office, shall take and subscribe the following oath or affirmation: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of President of the Village of
Grand Ridge, Illinois, according to the best of my ability.”
   (B)   Which oath or affirmation, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office
of the Clerk; and he, she, or they shall also execute a bond to said village in
the penal sum of $3,000 with such sureties as the members of the Board of
Trustees shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties
of the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.022 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Duties, generally. The President shall have the duties as set forth in
the state statutes and see that all ordinances of the village are duly
enforced; shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees but shall not
vote except in case of a tie, when he, she, or they shall cast the deciding
vote or as otherwise by the state statutes; he, she, or they shall preserve
order and decorum at all meetings of the Board of Trustees, and shall generally
do and perform all acts and things which are enjoined upon him, her, or them by
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
   (B)   Appointment of officers. The President and Board of Trustees may
appoint a Clerk Pro Tempore whenever necessary to fill a temporary vacancy; and
may also appoint a Treasurer, a Police Chief and such other officers as may be
necessary to carry into effect the powers conferred upon the village, and may
prescribe their duties and fees, and require such officers to execute bonds as
may be prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
   (C)   Supervise conduct of officers. The President shall supervise the
conduct of all officers of the village and see that they faithfully, and
efficiently discharge the duties of their respective offices.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
   (D)   Removal of officers; disapproval. 
      (1)   The President shall have power to remove any officer appointed by
him, her, or them on any formal charge whenever he, she, or they shall be of
the opinion that the interests of the village demand such removal, and he, she,
or they shall report the reasons for such removal to the Board of Trustees at a
meeting to be held not less than five days nor more than ten days after such
removal.
      (2)   If the President shall fail or refuse to file with the Village
Clerk a statement of the reasons for such removal, or if the Board of Trustees,
by a two-thirds’ vote of all its members authorized by law to be elected, by
yeas and nays to be entered upon its records, disapprove of such removal, such
officer shall thereupon become restored to the office from which he, she, or
they was so removed; but he, she, or they shall give new bonds and take a new
oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
   (E)   Ordinances; approval, veto. The President shall carefully inspect all
ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees and affix his, her, or their
official signature to such as he, she, or they may approve, and return them to
the Village Clerk within ten days after their passage; and all ordinances
passed as aforesaid which do not meet his, her, or their approval shall be
returned to the Board of Trustees with his, her, or their objections thereto in
writing at the next regular meeting of the Board, occurring not less than five
days after the passage thereof. Such veto may extend to any one or more items
or appropriations contained in any ordinance or to the entire ordinance; and in
case the veto extends only to a part of such ordinance, the residue thereof
shall take effect and be in force; but in case the President shall fail to
return any ordinance with his, her, or their objections thereto by the time
aforesaid, he, she, or they shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance and
the same shall take effect accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
   (F)   Signature; licenses, permits and warrants. 
      (1)   The President shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits, and
warrants granted, issued, or drawn by the order of the Board of Trustees, or
authorized by the ordinances of the village.
      (2)   In all contracts where the village is a party, he, she, or they
shall sign the same on behalf of the village, and it shall be his, her, or
their special duty to see that the other contracting party faithfully complies
with the contract, and in all suits where the village is a party, it shall be
the duty of the President to advise with and assist the Village Attorney in
prosecuting or defending the same, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-9)
   (G)   Examine records. The President shall at all times have the power to
examine and inspect the books, records, and papers of any agent, employee, or
other officer of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-10)
   (H)   Release prisoners. The President may release any person imprisoned for
violation of any village ordinance and shall report such release with the cause
thereof to the Board of Trustees at its first session thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-11)
(Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.023 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy shall occur in the office of the President on account of
death, resignation, removal from the village, or other cause, it shall be
filled according to the requirements of the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.024 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The salary of the Village President of the Village Board shall be
$8,000 (gross) per fiscal year (May 1 through April 30) and shall be paid in
quarterly installments.
   (B)   The Village President shall also be paid $60 for each special meeting
of the Village Board attended by the Village President.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1981; Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-17-2020; Ord. 2024-06, passed 9-
17-2024)
§ 31.025 PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE.
   During the temporary absence or disability of the President, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro Tempore, who,
during such absence or disability, shall possess the powers and duties of the
President.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-13) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.040 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Clerk shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified
elector, reside within the village limits, shall be elected every other odd
numbered year, and shall hold his, her, or their office for four years and
until his, her, or their successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.041 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, before entering upon the duties of this office
shall take the oath as nearly as may be in the form prescribed as follows: “I
do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Clerk of the Village of Grand
Ridge, Illinois, according to the best of my ability.”
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum
of $500, with such sureties as may be approved by the Board of Trustees,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his, her, or their
office, which bond shall be filed with the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.042 DUTIES.
   (A)   Duties, generally. The Clerk shall have such duties as set forth in
the state statutes and shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided under the
direction of the Board of Trustees, all papers belonging to the village; and
copies of all the papers duly filed in his, her, or their office, and
transcripts from the records and files of his, her, or their office, certified
by him, her, or them under the corporate seal, shall be evidence in all courts
in like manner as if the originals were produced.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
   (B)   Minutes; notices. The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
Board of Trustees and shall keep a full and faithful record of its proceedings.
he, she, or they shall issue and cause to be served upon the President and all
the Trustees, notices of all the special meetings of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
   (C)   Ordinances; record, publish.
      (1)   Record ordinances. The Clerk shall record and properly index in a
book kept for that purpose, all ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees, and
at the foot of the record of each ordinance so recorded, he, she, or they shall
make a memorandum of the date of the passage and of the publication of such
ordinance, which record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be
prima facie evidence of the passage and legal publication of such ordinance for
all purposes.
      (2)   Publish ordinances. The Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by
the Board of Trustees, imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment, or forfeiture
or making any appropriation, to be published in accordance with the
requirements of the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
   (D)   Prepare official documents; index. The Village Clerk shall prepare all
commissions, licenses, permits, and other official documents required to be
issued by him, her, or them under the laws or ordinances of the village, and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal. He, she, or they shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the
village. He, she, or they shall keep and maintain a proper index to all such
documents and records kept by him, her, or them so that ready access and use
thereof may be had.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
   (E)   Charge of documents. The Village Clerk shall exercise a general
supervision over all village officers charged in any manner with the receipt,
collection or disbursement of village revenues, and the collection and return
of all such revenues into the Village Treasury. He, she, or they shall have the
charge, custody and control of all deeds, leases, warrants, contracts, books
and papers of every kind, the custody of which is not herein given to any other
officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
   (F)   Notice of election or appointment of officers. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk, within five days after the
result of any election is declared or appointment is made, to notify all
persons elected or appointed to office in the village of such election or
appointment, and unless such persons shall respectively qualify in ten days
after such notice, the office shall become vacant.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall keep a record of the election or
appointment and confirmation of all officers of the village, and said record
shall be so ruled and headed that the same shall exhibit the name of the
officer, to what office elected or appointed, date of election or confirmation,
and the date of death, resignation, removal or expiration of term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-10)
   (G)   Estimates for annual appropriation ordinance. The Village Clerk shall,
on or before May 15 of each year, submit to the Board of Trustees, a report of
his, her, or their estimates, as nearly as may be, the moneys necessary to
defray the expenses of the village for use in the preparation of the annual
appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-11)
   (H)   Record of licenses. The Village Clerk shall keep in his, her, or their
office in a book or books kept expressly for that purpose, a complete list of
all licenses and permits issued by the village, with the names of the
licensees, the purpose for which each license or permit is issued, and the date
of its issue and expiration, and where a bond is required, the amount of the
bond and the names of the sureties thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-12)
   (I)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required by the
Board of Trustees or by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-14)
(Ord. 93-3, passed 7-19-1993; Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.043 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Village Clerk shall be $7,000 (gross) per fiscal year and
shall be paid in quarterly installments. The Village Clerk shall also be paid
$60 for each special meeting of the Village Board attended by the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-15) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-17-2020; Ord. 2024-06, passed
9-17-2024)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.055 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The President and Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Treasurer as soon
as may be after the commencement of each fiscal year. The Treasurer shall be a
citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, reside within the village
limits, shall hold office for one year and until his, her, or their successor
is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.056 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his, her, or
their office, shall take the oath as nearly as may be in the form prescribed as
follows: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Treasurer of the Village
of Grand Ridge, Illinois, according to the best of my ability.”
   (B)   The Village Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his, her, or
their office, shall execute and deliver to the Village Clerk a bond signed by
at least two sureties in the sum equal to three times the latest federal census
population or any subsequent census used for motor fuel tax purposes
conditioned upon the fact that he, she, or they will faithfully, justly, and
fairly account for and pay over all moneys that may come into his, her, or
their hands by virtue of his, her, or their office, and duly perform all and
every act and duty imposed upon him, her, or them by virtue of the laws of this
state or by the provisions of this village code.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.057 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. All duties shall be as set forth in the state statutes and
as in this section.
   (B)   Moneys; received, paid out.
      (1)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the
village, and shall keep a separate account of each fund and appropriation and
debts and credits belonging thereto. He, she, or they shall give to every
person paying money into the Village Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and upon what account paid.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall pay out money only on vouchers or
orders when signed by the proper village officials. The President and Treasurer
shall be authorized to sign vouchers or orders, as follows.
         (a)   The Corporate Fund;
         (b)   The Payroll Fund; and
         (c)   All other funds of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
   (C)   Warrants. All warrants drawn upon the Treasurer must be signed by the
President and countersigned by the Clerk, stating the particular fund and
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable.
No money shall be paid otherwise than upon such warrants so drawn, except as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
   (D)   Special assessment fund. The moneys received by the Village Treasurer
on any special assessment or special tax shall be held by him, her, or them as
a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement for which such
assessment or special tax was made, and said money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, except to reimburse the village for money expended for such
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
   (E)   Deposit of funds; personal use prohibited. The Village Treasurer shall
deposit the village funds in such depositories as are selected by the President
and Board of Trustees. He, she, or they shall keep all moneys in his, her, or
their hands belonging to the village separate and distinct from his, her, or
their own moneys, and he, she, or they is hereby expressly prohibited from
using, either directly or indirectly, the village moneys or warrants in his,
her, or their custody or keeping for his, her, or their own use and benefit, or
that of any other person or persons whomsoever. Any violation of this provision
shall subject him, her, or them to immediate removal from office by the
President and Board of Trustees, in which case his, her, or their successor
shall be appointed, who shall hold his, her, or their office for the remainder
of the term unexpired of such officer so removed.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
   (F)   Report delinquent officers. It shall be the duty of the Village
Treasurer to report to the President and Board of Trustees any officer
authorized to receive money for the use of the village who may fail to make a
return of the moneys received by him, her, or them at the time required by law
or by the ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7)
   (G)   Records; inspection. The Village Treasurer shall keep his, her, or
their books and accounts in such manner as to accurately show all moneys
received and disbursed by him, her, or them for the village, from whom and on
what account received, and to whom and on what account paid out, and in such
way that such books and accounts shall exhibit at all times the true financial
condition of the village, and in such manner as may be readily investigated and
understood. The same, together with all files and papers of his, her, or their
office shall at all times be open to examination by the President, Village
Clerk, or any member of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8)
   (H)   Reports.
      (1)   The Village Treasurer shall, at the first regular meeting in each
month, render an account, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account, the condition of each fund, and the balance of money in the Treasury.
He, she, or they shall accompany such accounts with a statement of all moneys
received into the Treasury, and on what account, together with all warrants
redeemed or paid by him, her, or them. Said warrants, with any and all vouchers
held by him, her, or them, shall be delivered to the Clerk, and filed with his,
her, or their said account in the Clerk’s office upon the day of such
settlement. He, she, or they shall return all warrants paid by him, her, or
them stamped or marked “paid.”
      (2)   Six months after the close of a fiscal year, the Treasurer shall
file with the Board of Trustees, and with the County Clerk, a copy of an annual
account for the fiscal year which ends the 12-month period ending on the
preceding April 30, which account shall show in detail all municipal receipts
and disbursements, all of his, her, or their transactions as Treasurer during
the preceding fiscal year, and the state of the Treasury at the close of the
fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-9)
   (I)   Register of warrants. 
      (1)   The Village Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants
redeemed and paid, which shall describe such warrants and show the date,
amount, number, the fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom and
when paid.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer to notify the
President and Board of Trustees in writing as soon as any fund appropriated for
any purpose has been exhausted.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-10)
(Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 31.058 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Treasurer shall be paid $6,000 (gross) annually, paid in equal
quarterly installments.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-11) (Ord. 2013-01, passed 4-16-2013; Ord. 2024-06, passed 9-
17-2024)
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 31.070 CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT.
   There is created the office of Village Attorney. The Attorney shall be
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 31.071 SUITS AND ACTIONS.
   The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions
at law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the village
on behalf of the village, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
§ 31.072 JUDGMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see to the full enforcement
of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the village, and of
all similar interlocutory orders.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3)
§ 31.073 ADVICE.
   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village, and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever requested
to do so by any village official. Upon request by the President or by the
Village Board, he, she, or they shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-4)
§ 31.074 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see to the completion of all
special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-5)
§ 31.075 ORDINANCES; DOCUMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to draft or supervise the
phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents or instruments, to
which the village may be a party; and upon request by the Village Board, to
draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-6)
§ 31.076 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The Village Attorney shall perform such other professional services incident
to his, her, or their office as may be required by the Board of Trustees or any
of its committees or by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-7)
§ 31.077 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Attorney shall receive the compensation established by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-8) (Ord. passed 6-2-1981)
HISTORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.115 CREATION; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created a History Committee. The purpose of this advisory
committee shall be to discover, preserve, and make available to the public
documents and other materials illustrating the history of the village and its
environs.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 31.116 MEMBERS; TERMS; OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment and qualifications. 
      (1)   The History Committee shall consist of five members appointed by
the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Committee members are to be appointed on the basis of familiarity
with or interest in preserving the history of the village. Consideration is to
be given to the appointment of current or former village residents.
   (B)   Term and compensation. 
      (1)   The initial Committee members shall be appointed as follows: three
members shall be appointed to serve a term ending on April 30, 2017 and two
members shall be appointed for a term ending on April 30, 2018 in order to
create staggered terms for the various Committee members.
      (2)   All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three years and
until a successor has been appointed and qualified to serve.
      (3)   Any vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired term
by appointment of the Village President and concurrence of the Board of
Trustees.
      (4)   All Committee members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. 
      (1)   The Village President shall designate one Committee member as
Chairperson to preside at all meetings and to fill the customary functions of
that position and another Committee member as a Vice Chairperson.
      (2)   In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson or, in the
absence of the Vice Chairperson, a temporary Chairperson elected by the
Committee members, shall act as Chairperson.
   (D)   Secretary. 
      (1)   The Committee members shall select one of its members to serve as
secretary.
      (2)   Among other duties that the Committee may assign, the secretary
shall take minutes of Committee meetings and submit copies of minutes approved
by the Committee to the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 31.117 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular and special meetings. 
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Committee shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson or as may otherwise be provided by rules of procedure established
by the Committee.
      (2)   Special meetings may be called at the request of the Village
President, the Chairperson or any two members of the Committee or of the Board
of Trustees upon two days’ written notice to each Committee member.
      (3)   If all members are present at any special meeting it shall be
deemed to have been properly called even when written notice was not timely
given to all members.
      (4)   The preferred location for Committee meetings is the Village Hall.
A Committee member may attend and fully participate in any meeting of the
Committee from a remote location via telephone, video, or Internet connection.
   (B)   Quorum. No business shall be transacted by the Committee without a
quorum, consisting of three members, being present. A quorum may be established
by a member participating from a remote location provided two Committee members
are physically present at a meeting.
   (C)   Rules. The Committee may adopt its own rules of procedure governing it
and regulating its business as it, from time to time, deems proper and
necessary.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-19-2016)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 31.130 OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEE ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Art. 10 (5 ILCS 430/
10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS
430/1-1 et seq, (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities under the Act, by any
officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the state’s
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the state’s Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 7-13-2004)
§ 31.131 DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   The village hereby declares to uphold all laws related to Equal
Employment Opportunity including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq., which prohibits discrimination in the participation in or benefits of
programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of
race, color, or national origin;
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq., which prohibits discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex
or national origin in all employment practices including hiring, firing,
promotions, compensation, and other terms, privileges, and conditions of
employment;
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, being 20 U.S.C. §§
1681 - 1688, which prohibits discrimination in federally assisted education
programs;
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., which
covers all employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Grand Ridges Act. The
Act forbids pay differentials on the basis of sex;
      (5)   The Age Discrimination and Employment Act of 1967, being 29 U.S.C.
§§ 621 et seq., which prohibits discrimination because of age against anyone
between the ages of 40 and 65;
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246 of Sept. 24, 1965, 30 FR 12319,
12935, which requires every contract with federal financial assistance to
contain a clause against discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin; and
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §
794, and DOL Implementing Regulations at 29 C.F.R. part 32 which prohibits any
discrimination based on handicap.
   (B)   Art. I, §§ 17-19 of the state’s Constitution which prohibits
discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry, handicap, and
sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer:
      (1)   Art. 2 of the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/2); and
      (2)   Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.) and
the regulations thereunder (28 C.F.R. § 35.130) (ADA) which prohibits
discrimination against persons with disabilities in the provision of any aid
benefit or service.
   (C)   The village will assure non-discriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   (D)   The village will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors, and the like, who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on sex, color, race, religion, age, developmentally disabled/handicap,
national origin, political affiliation or belief.
   (E)   The village assures that it will actively provide non-discriminatory
outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   (F)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the village as well
as surrounding areas.
   (G)   The village will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
developmentally disabled/handicapped employees contingent on budget and
structural limitations.
   (H)   All village employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and
to work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out
village program activities.
   (I)   The village designates the Mayor and Village Board to carry out the
EEO/AA plan.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 31.132 SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   The village shall uphold all laws related to sexual harassment.
   (A)   Definition. SEXUAL HARASSMENT means any unwelcome sexual advances or
requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individuals employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Examples of sexual harassment.
      (1)   Sexual harassment may involve individuals of the same or different
gender.
      (2)   Sexual harassment is most frequently associated with those
situations in which a power differential exists between persons involved;
however, it also may occur between individuals of the same status. Such
conduct, whether intended or not, constitutes sexual harassment and is illegal
under both state and federal law. Violations of this policy will not be
permitted.
      (3)   Examples of conduct which may, if continued or repeated, constitute
sexual harassment are:
         (a)   Unnecessary touching, patting, hugging, or brushing against a
person’s body;
         (b)   Staring, ogling, leering, or whistling;
         (c)   Sexually explicit statements, comments, questions, jokes, or
anecdotes;
         (d)   Graphic comments about a person’s clothing or body;
         (e)   Sexually suggestive objects or pictures in the work place;
         (f)   Harassing use of the electronic mail or telephone communication
system; and/or
         (g)   Other physical or verbal conduct of a sexual nature.
   (C)   Procedure for the resolution of sexual harassment complaints.
      (1)   The village encourages anyone who feels that he, she, or they has
been a victim of sexual harassment to report such incidents to the Mayor or
Village Board member.
      (2)   Complainants are urged to report sexual harassment incidents as
soon as possible, since a delay in reporting may make it difficult to gather
appropriate information and documentation.
      (3)   It is not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the
person making the complaint.
      (4)   The following steps may also be taken:
         (a)   Document or record each incident (what was said or done, the
date, the time, and the place). Documentation can be strengthened by written
records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages;
         (b)   Complaints will be kept in confidence to the extent practicable
and appropriate under the circumstances.
         (c)   The Mayor with approval of the Board shall appoint a Committee
of at least three people, one of which shall be the attorney for the village.
The role of the Committee will be to hear and consider testimony and other
relevant reliable evidence, to make findings of fact, to determine whether the
village’s policy on sexual harassment has been violated, and if so, to
recommend appropriate relief and disciplinary action(s). A copy of the written
decision shall be promptly furnished to the employee making the complaint.
         (d)   The employee will be able to have a representative present at
any discussion between the employee and the Village Board or Committee.
   (D)   Filing written complaints. The employee making the complaint may elect
to file a written complaint with the state’s Department of Human Rights or the
state’s Human Rights Commission. The alternative complaint avenues are
available if the employee would prefer to use them instead of the internal
procedures:
      (1)   The state’s Department of Human Rights 312-814-4294; and/or
      (2)   The state’s Human Rights Commission 217-785-4350.
   (E)   Protections. The employee is protected by the Illinois Human Rights
Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101) from retaliation because he, she, or they or she has
opposed that which he, she, or they reasonably and in good faith believes to be
unlawful sexual harassment in employment or because he, she, or they has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation under this act.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 12-20-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
MEETINGS
§ 31.145 REMOTE MEETINGS; DEFINITION.
   The term MEETING as used in any existing village resolutions, ordinances, or
rules shall be defined to mean any gathering, whether in person or by video or
audio conference, telephone calls, electronic means (such as, without
limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, and instant messaging), or other
means of contemporary interactive communication, of a majority of a quorum of
the members of a public body held for the purpose of discussing public business
or such other definition as shall be contained within the state statutes.
(Ord. 2009-07, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 31.146 REMOTE ATTENDANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Adoption of policy. The village hereby adopts the remote participation
policy, attached hereto, that permits a member of the public body to attend and
participate in any meeting of a public body as defined in the Open Meetings
Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., from a remote location via telephone, video,
or Internet connection; provided that such attendance and participation is in
compliance with the policy and any applicable laws.
   (B)   Policy statement. It is the policy of the village that a member of any
group associated with this unit of government which is subject to the
provisions of the Open Meetings Act (a “covered group”) may attend and
participate in any open or closed meeting of that covered group from a remote
location via telephone, video or internet connection; provided that such
attendance and participation is in compliance with this policy and any other
applicable laws.
   (C)   Prerequisites. A member of the covered group of the village shall be
provided the opportunity to attend an open and closed meeting or only one of
such meetings from a remote location if the member meets the following
conditions and a majority of a quorum of the covered body votes to approve the
remote attendance:
      (1)   The member must notify the recording secretary or clerk of the
covered body at least 24 hours before the meeting unless advance notice is
impractical;
      (2)   The member must meet one of three reasons described herein why he,
she, or they or she is unable to physically attend the meeting, including
either:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village;
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency;
and/or
         (d)   A quorum of the covered body must be physically present.
   (D)   Voting procedures. After roll call, a vote of the covered body shall
be taken, considering the prerequisites set forth in division (C) above, on
whether to allow an off-site board member to participate remotely. All of the
members physically present are permitted to vote on whether remote
participation will be allowed. A vote may be taken to permit remote
participation for a stated series of meetings if the same reason applies in
each case. Otherwise, a vote must be taken to allow each remote participation.
   (E)   Quorum and vote required. A quorum must be established by members
physically present at any meeting before it can be considered whether to allow
a member to participate in the meeting remotely. A vote of a majority of quorum
shall be necessary to decide the issue. For the meeting to continue, there
shall always need to be a quorum physically present.
   (F)   Minutes. The member participating remotely shall be considered an off-
site participant and counted as present by means of video or audio conference,
for that meeting if the member is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes
of the village shall also reflect and state specifically whether each other is
physically present, present by video, or present by audio means.
   (G)   Rights of remote member. The member permitted to participate remotely
will be able to express his, her, or their comments during the meeting and
participate in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject
to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered
to. The remote member shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote
taken. Accordingly, the name of any remote member shall be called during any
vote taken, and his, her, or their vote counted and recorded by the Clerk or
Secretary and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
participating remotely may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member.
   (H)   Meetings. The term meeting as used herein refers to any gathering,
whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone call, electronic
means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, and
instant messaging), or other means of contemporaneous interactive
communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public body held
for the purposes of discussing public business.
   (I)   Closed meetings. A quorum of the village’s’s members must be
physically present at any closed meeting. Members participating remotely shall
otherwise be entitled to participate in closed meetings by video or audio
conference.
   (J)   Costs. A member participating remotely via telephone shall be
reimbursed for the cost of the telephone call upon a valid receipt shown. Any
other costs associated with remote participation, including video conferencing
and other audio and video equipment, must be approved by the village.
(Ord. 2009-07, passed 7-21-2009)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Emergency Management
   
32.01   National Incident Management System
   
32.02   State of emergency
Police Department
   
32.15   Creation of Department
   
32.16   Chief of Police; Deputy
   
32.17   Part-time police officers
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The village hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as
its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 7-21-2004)
§ 32.02 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Village President and Board of Trustees of the village (the
“corporate authorities”) authorize the Village President to render a
declaration of a state of emergency within the village based on the following
findings and supporting facts:
      (1)   Any type of emergency, natural disaster, or catastrophe which will
likely cause damage, injury, losses, hardship, or suffering to the community or
its residents, which can be construed broadly to include disease epidemics and
other public health emergencies, is imminent or has occurred; and
      (2)   The emergency is severe enough to require the declaration of
emergency in order to supplement local resources in preventing loss of life or
injury, alleviating damages, loss, hardship, or suffering or to necessitate
measures to be taken, including the identification of any applicable
procedures, rules or regulations that will be waived or suspended, during the
emergency.
   (B)   The exercise of these powers shall be based upon a statement, signed
under oath by the Village President, finding that the standards herein which
form the basis for such a declaration have been met, along with those facts
which substantiate such a finding and declaring that a state of emergency
exists.
   (C)   This written declaration shall be filed with the Village Clerk as soon
as practicable.
   (D)   Based on the nature of the danger to the public health or safety as
set forth in the Village President’s declaration of emergency, the corporate
authorities authorize the Village President to exercise, by executive order:
      (1)   Such powers of the corporate authorities as may be reasonably
necessary to respond to the emergency; and
      (2)   The authority to let contracts to the extent necessary to resolve
such emergency upon declaration, without public advertisement.
   (E)   Any state of emergency declared pursuant to this authority shall
expire no later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
corporate authorities after the state of emergency has been declared in
accordance with § 11-1-6 of the state’s Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-1-6);
however, if the state of emergency has not been resolved as of commencement of
the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the state of
emergency has been declared, the authorizations set forth above in this
subchapter shall remain in full force and effect without further action by the
Village President or corporate authorities until such state of emergency has
been resolved as declared in writing by the Village President or until the
authorizations are withdrawn by passage of an ordinance by an affirmative
majority vote the corporate authorities at a public meeting.
   (F)   A declaration of emergency pursuant to this authority may not suspend
in any way the rights of residents of the village under the state’s
Constitution or the United States Constitution.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-17-2020)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the municipal
government of the village which shall be known as the Police Department, and
which shall consist of one Police Chief and such temporary and special police
officers as may from time to time be appointed by the President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 32.16 CHIEF OF POLICE; DEPUTY.
   (A)   Appointment of Chief of Police. 
      (1)   There is hereby established the office of Chief of Police.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   He, she, or they shall be a citizen of the United States. The Chief
of Police, in addition to his, her, or their duties as Police Chief, may be
appointed or employed by the village to act in any other capacity, provided
that such appointment or employment is compatible with his, her, or their
duties as Chief of Police.
   (B)   Appointment of Deputy Chief. There is hereby established the office of
Deputy Chief of Police. Deputies shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees in such number as the
corporate authorities shall from time to time deem necessary.
   (C)   Terms, compensation. The Chief of Police and the Deputy Chief of
Police shall serve at the discretion of the President and Board of Trustees and
may be removed from office at the will of the President and Board of Trustees.
The Chief of Police and the Deputy Chief of Police shall receive such hourly
compensation for their services as determined by the corporate authorities.
   (D)   Bonds of office. The Chief of Police and deputies so appointed shall,
at the time of their appointment, execute to the village a bond in the amount
to be established by and with sureties to be approved by the corporate
authorities and conditioned as required by law.
   (E)   Functions, identification. The Chief of Police and deputies shall at
all times during the performance of their duties be subject to the direction
and control of the President and Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Deputies, duties. Deputies shall perform such duties as directed by
the Chief of Police or by the corporate authorities.
   (G)   Powers and duties. The Chief of Police and deputies shall be
conservators of the peace and shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To arrest all persons of the village found in the act of violating
any law or provision of this code or aiding and abetting any such violation,
and shall arrest any person found under circumstances which would warrant a
reasonable person in believing that such person had committed or is about to
commit a crime;
      (2)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
      (3)   To serve and execute warrants and other processes in the village
for summons, apprehension and commitment of any person charged with violation
of any provision of this code, or with any crime or misdemeanor or offense
against the laws of the village or state; and
      (4)   Have custody and control of all equipment, books, records, and
other property belonging to their offices, and all lost, stolen, or abandoned
property.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
§ 32.17 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed
on a full-time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the state’s Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (B)   The aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part-time
police officers employed by the village shall be submitted to the state’s Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board, as required by statute.
      (1)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from
time to time as the corporate authorities deem necessary.
      (2)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders of the village’s Police Department, but the
number of hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is
restricted. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full-time police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the state’s Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the
rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
      (3)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time officer must
meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound
health, and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         (b)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (c)   Pass a medical examination;
         (d)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
         (e)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
         (f)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
         (g)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have
been honorably discharged.
      (4)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village’s corporate authorities, shall not have any property
rights in said employment, and may be removed by the village’s corporate
authorities at any time. Part-time police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and general orders issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 7-19-2011; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-19-2012)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXES AND FEES
Section
Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility
   
33.01   Title and scope
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Notices
   
33.04   Payments
   
33.05   Refunds
   
33.06   Audit procedure
   
33.07   Appeal
   
33.08   Hearing
   
33.09   Interest
   
33.10   Abatement
   
33.11   Installment contracts
   
33.12   Statute of limitations
   
33.13   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.14   Publication and review
   
33.15   Application
General Taxes and Fees
   
33.30   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax
   
33.31   Permit fees
   
33.32   Fee schedule
Hotel Tax
   
33.45   Purpose
   
33.46   Definitions
   
33.47   Tax imposed
   
33.48   Tax returns
   
33.49   Records
Grocery Taxes
   
33.50   Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
33.51   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
   
33.52   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes
   
33.53   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
§ 33.01 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the
“Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s
procedures in connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45/1.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The village’s President and Board of Trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk, who is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.03 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.04 PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing
required to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be
considered late unless it is physically received by the village on or before
the due date, or received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   (B)   Payment. Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.05 REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily
paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      (2)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (B)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
   (C)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in part,
a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or credit
shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365 days
and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of
mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.06 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (C)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (D)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days, nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (E)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (F)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village, If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (G)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (H)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.07 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be .scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest, and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.08 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
33.07, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted,
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.09 INTEREST.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated. The village hereby provides for the amount of
interest to be assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the
tax, to be 5% per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days
elapsed.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.10 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.11 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer
for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance.
   (B)   The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract so
entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing.
   (C)   Upon written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is
30 days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any
delinquency.
   (D)   If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day period
or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract
with the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled
without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.12 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.13 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has
not received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from
the local in administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with
the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due.
   (B)   A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay
the amount of tax due along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application.
   (C)   A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not be
liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax alone with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void.
   (D)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within 90 days after a final determination and the
exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.14 PUBLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Publication of tax ordinances. Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements The posting
of a tax ordinance on the Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the Village Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Review. The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 33.15 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the village’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001)
GENERAL TAXES AND FEES
§ 33.30 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX.
   (A)   A simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby imposed upon
the act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in the
municipality intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a person under the
provisions of the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (35 ILCS 636/
5-1 et seq.) at a rate of 6% of the gross charges for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer.
   (B)   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the state. The state’s Department of Revenue shall
have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 10-19-2004) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.31 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The permit fee schedule as assessed by the Board of Trustees is hereby
adopted as to all applicable construction within the village corporate limits.
   (B)   All construction of any kind must conform to the National Building
Code, National Code, and the State Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Any changes in, or in the use of existing, or any new waste disposal
facilities, must be approved by the county’s Health Department. Any new
building must be at least three feet from owners lot line including eaves. The
same grade shall be maintained as surrounding lots, including landscaping.
   (D)   All new buildings and additions must maintain the same setback from
streets as surrounding buildings.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 4-19-2005) Penalty, see §
33.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 33.32 FEE SCHEDULE.
Animals                                                                  Fee
Dog license                                                              $5
                                                                         $200
Vicious dog license                                                      per
                                                                         year
Businesses                                                               Fee
Coin-in the-slot devices application                                     $75 per
                                                                         year
                                                                         $175
Kennel and pet shops license                                             per
                                                                         year
Peddlers and solicitors application                                      $25
Building Permits                                                         Fee
Carports                                                                 $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Commercial buildings                                                     $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Decks                                                                    $25
Demolition                                                               $25
Demolition permit                                                        $50
Duplex buildings                                                         $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Fences                                                                   $25
Multi-unit (3 or more)                                                   $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Residential buildings                                                    $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Residential garages                                                      $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Room additions                                                           $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Sidewalks/driveways                                                      $25
Signs                                                                    $25
Swimming pools                                                           $25
Utility buildings, including sheds                                       $0.25/
                                                                         sq. ft.
Fire Prevention                                                          Fee
                                                                         $200
Explosives and fireworks license                                         per
                                                                         year
Flammable liquid storage tanks installation                              $500
Liquid petroleum equipment installation permit                           $100
                                                                         $500
Liquid petroleum plant operation license                                 per
                                                                         year
                                                                         $500
Liquid petroleum storage business license                                per
                                                                         year
Liquor Licenses                                                          Fee
Application fee                                                          $300
                                                                         $600
Class A                                                                  per
                                                                         year
                                                                         $600
Class B-2                                                                per
                                                                         year
Temporary license for special events                                     $100
Transfer of license (must be approved)                                   $200
Small Wireless Facilities                                                Fee
Application fee
   Single facility                                                    $650
   More than 1 facility on existing utility poles or wireless support $350
structures
   Installation of a new utility pole                                 $1,000
                                                                         $200
Recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on utility pole    per
                                                                         year
Sewer main connection                                                    $100
                                                                         per lot
Water connection                                                         $100
                                                                         per lot
Traffic                                                                  Fee
Impounded motor vehicles administrative fee                              $400
Non-highway vehicles
   Annual registration                                                $50
                                                                         $10 per
   Special event registration                                         special
                                                                         event
Water Rates and Charges
Water Rates Fees
Water Rates and Charges
Water Rates      Fees
Basic charge
(resident)                Effective 10-1-24 Effective 10-1-25 Effective 10-1-26
(amount does not $36.57   $37.67            $38.80            $39.96
include any
usage per month)
Basic charge
(non-resident)            Effective 10-1-24 Effective 10-1-25 Effective 10-1-26
(amount does not $57.17   $58.89            $60.66            $62.48
include any
usage per month)
Debt service
charge           $13
(applies to all
system users)
Operation and
maintenance/
meter
replacement      $2.50
charge
(applies to all
system users)
Usage charge              Effective 10-1-24 Effective 10-1-25 Effective 10-1-26
(resident) per   $0.08755 $0.09017          $0.09287          $0.09565
cubic foot
Usage charge              Effective 10-1-24 Effective 10-1-25 Effective 10-1-26
(non-resident)   $0.1751  $0.18035          $0.18576          $0.19133
per cubic foot
The above rates are for each month or fraction thereof; the basic charges being
the minimum rate that will be accepted for one month or fraction thereof and
shall be collected as set forth herein.
A service charge will be imposed upon delinquent water accounts in the amount
of $10 per month.
Water Charges    Fees
Swing meters
   Deposit    $35
   Not returne$35 monthly
Turning on water $35 or actual costs charged by a private contractor if the
and renewing     village hires a private contractor to reconnect water service
service
Water service    $2 per front foot of the lot so to be served by water
connections      $200 for each tap not greater than three-fourths-inch size
application      where frontage fees have not been paid on said lot
 
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-21-2023; Ord. 2024.01,
passed 2-20-2024; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-16-2024; Ord. 2024-05, passed 9-17-
2024)
HOTEL TAX
§ 33.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to generate revenue to be placed in a fund
to encourage tourism through the promotion of attractions, special events, and
other similar activities in accordance with the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax
Act, being 65 ILCS 5/8-3-14.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 33.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping
accommodations. The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes, lodging houses,
rooming houses, short term rental units, and bed-and-breakfast houses.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days for his or her own
personal use unrelated to the conducting of any business or occupation.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits,
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   RENTER. Any person who pays for the privilege of using or occupying a hotel
room for the period for which payment is made.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping
accommodations.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 33.47 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax upon all persons engaged in
the business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel which is located
within the corporate limits of the village, at a rate of 5% of the gross rental
receipts from such renting, leasing, or letting for any purpose for each 24-
hour period or portion thereof, excluding, however, from the gross rental
receipts the proceeds of such rents, leasing, or letting to permanent
residents. The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges applicable to such hotels, but such other taxes and charges
shall not be construed to be a part of the gross rental receipts upon which
this tax is levied.
   (B)   The ultimate incidents of and liability for payment of the tax levied
herein is upon the person engaged in the business of leasing, renting, or
letting rooms. Such hotel owners and operators may reimburse themselves for
their tax liability for this tax by separately stating such tax as an
additional charge to the lessee or renter, which charge may be stated in
combination as a single amount, with the state tax imposed under the Hotel
Operator’s Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
   (C)   No person engaged in the business of renting, leasing, or letting
rooms in a hotel shall reimburse himself, herself, or itself or charge for the
imposition of this tax at a rate higher than the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
   (D)   This tax shall not in any manner constitute an indebtedness by the
village subject to any limitation imposed by statute or otherwise.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 10-18-2022) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.48 TAX RETURNS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, every person engaged in the business of renting,
leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel within the village during the preceding
calendar month shall file a return with the Village Treasurer, on forms to be
supplied by the Village Clerk, stating:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The operator’s residence address and the address of the principal
place of business from which the operator engages in the business of renting,
leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel in the village;
      (3)   Total amount of rental receipts received by the operator during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing, or letting rooms during such
preceding calendar month;
      (4)   Total amount of rental received by the operator during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing, or letting rooms to permanent
residents during such preceding calendar months;
      (5)   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts as
allowed by this subchapter;
      (6)   Gross rental receipts which were received by the operator during
the preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (7)   The amount of the tax due;
      (8)   The amount of penalty due, if any; and
      (9)   Such other reasonable information as may from time to time be
required by the Village Treasurer.
   (B)   The person subject to tax shall also transmit to the Village Treasurer
with the return required by this section the amount of the tax and penalties,
if any, due as shown by said return required by this section. Such person shall
also file with the Village Treasurer, not later than five business days after
said documents are transmitted to the state, copies of all hotel operator’s
occupation tax returns as are required by the provisions of the Hotel
Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 33.49 RECORDS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing, or letting of
hotel rooms shall maintain complete and accurate books and records, including a
daily sheet showing the gross receipts for the hotel rentals for the day
reported.
   (B)   For the purposes of enforcing and administering this subchapter, the
Village Treasurer or such agents as are designated by the Village Treasurer
shall, after providing reasonable notice, have access during normal business
hours to the books and records of persons and businesses subject to this
subchapter. The Village Treasurer or such agents as are designated by the
Village Treasurer shall at least annually inspect said books and records and
shall file a written report of his or her findings with the Village Board no
later than April 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 10-18-2022)
GROCERY TAXES
§ 33.50 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in the village, at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts
collected therefrom, after the effective date of this section. The imposition
of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of § 8-11-24(a)
of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24(a)).
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 07-15-2025)
§ 33.51 MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax is 1% of the gross receipts collected therefrom, after the effective
date of this section. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of § 8-11-24(b) of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24(b)).
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 07-15-2025)
§ 33.52 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES.
   The taxes hereby imposed in this subchapter, and all civil penalties that
may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 07-15-2025)
§ 33.53 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The taxes imposed by this subhapter shall take effect on January 1, 2026.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 07-15-2025)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by §§
33.01 through
33.15, a late filing penalty, of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown
as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the
tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner
provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a
notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to 5% of the total tax due for the applicable
reporting period for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing
or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by
the controlling ordinance.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
33.45 through
33.49, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$200 nor more than $750 for the first offense, and not less than $300 and not
more than $750 for the second and each subsequent offense during any 180-
period. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as having been
committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-15-2001; Ord. 2022-05, passed 10-18-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Water Department and General Authority
   
50.01   Superintendent of Water and Streets
   
50.02   Duties of Treasurer; bond
   
50.03   Water Fund
   
50.04   Inspectors; identification
   
50.05   Employees; compensation
   
50.06   Accounting
   
50.07   Information at plumber’s risk
Rules and Regulations
   
50.20   Applicability
   
50.21   Water service connections; permit
   
50.22   Service pipes; separate connections
   
50.23   Service curb cocks
   
50.24   Right to shut off water
   
50.25   Temporary mains
   
50.26   Application for water service; responsibility
   
50.27   Disconnection and discontinuance of use
   
50.28   Unnecessary waste
   
50.29   Water meters
   
50.30   Connections for fire protection
   
50.31   Contractors’ services
   
50.32   Supplying others; additional sources of supply
   
50.33   Fire hydrants
   
50.34   After hours service call charges
Payment Procedures
   
50.45   Water rate schedule
   
50.46   Refunds
   
50.47   Accounts; responsibility for payment
   
50.48   Lien; foreclosure
 
   
50.99   Penalty
WATER DEPARTMENT AND GENERAL AUTHORITY
§ 50.01 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND STREETS.
   (A)   The Water Department of the village shall be under the supervision of
the President of the Board of Trustees of the village, who shall also be the
Superintendent of Water and Streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
   (B)   The active supervision of the Water Department of the village and of
any and all property pertaining thereto, shall be by employees or agents of the
village, under the direction of the President and the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 50.02 DUTIES OF TREASURER; BOND.
   All moneys due the Water Department from all purposes and sources, including
the collection of water rents or rates, shall be paid to the Village Treasurer
who shall be custodian of the funds derived from income received from the
waterworks system.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 50.03 WATER FUND.
   All revenue derived from the sale of water as herein provided shall be kept
separate and apart by the Treasurer of the village from the other revenue of
the village, and said moneys shall be known as the Water Fund and shall be used
exclusively for Water Department purposes; that is for the maintenance,
extension, improvement, and operation of said Water Department, the retirement
of the Water Department bonds, certificates, and the like, and under no
circumstances shall this revenue be diverted to any other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 50.04 INSPECTORS; IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Inspectors, foreperson, meter readers, or any other employees of the
Water Department, whose duty it may be to enter upon private premises to make
inspection and examination of water meters, pipes, fixtures, or appurtenances
thereto, for any reason whatever in connection with the village water supply,
will be provided with a badge or other credential to identify him, her, or them
as authorized agents and representatives of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
   (B)   Village officers, employees, or agents of the Water Department shall
be permitted at all reasonable hours to enter the premises or buildings of
consumers for the purpose of reading meters and to examine the water pipes and
fixtures, and the manner in which water is used. The Water Department reserves
the right to set or remove a meter, whenever it is deemed advisable to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-34)
§ 50.05 EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The President of the Board of Trustees shall have the authority to
hire all employees necessary for the proper operation and management of the
Water Department subject to the approval of his, her, or their acts and doings
such hirings.
   (B)   The salaries of all employees of the Water Department shall be fixed
by the President of the Board of Trustees upon the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 50.06 ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   Accounting system. There shall be installed and maintained a proper
system of accounts showing the amount of revenue received and the application
of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
   (B)   Audit. The Board of Trustees shall cause a proper audit to be made by
a competent auditor at least once each year of the Water Department, and the
report of such audit shall be available for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10)
§ 50.07 INFORMATION AT PLUMBER’S RISK.
   Such information as may be obtained from the records, maps, employees, and
the like, of the Water Department relative to the location of water mains,
service pipes, will be furnished to licensed plumbers and interested parties;
but the Water Department does not guarantee the accuracy of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-33)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.20 APPLICABILITY.
   The following rules and regulations shall be considered a part of the
contract with every person who takes water supplied by the village through the
village’s Water Department, and every such person, who takes water, shall be
considered as having expressed his, her, or their agreement to be bound
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) (Ord. passed 2-6-1946)
§ 50.21 WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS; PERMIT.
   (A)   Water service connections required; application for water service
connection; fee.
      (1)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is
now located or could, by extension, be located a village water main or line is
hereby required at his, her, or their expense, as hereinafter set forth, to
install suitable water service facilities therein; and to connect such
facilities directly with the village water system and mains.
      (2)   Applications for water service connections must be made in writing
to the Village Clerk by the owner or agent of the property to be served. Such
applications shall state official house number or numbers of the premises to be
served, size of pipe required and the approximate location where such service
shall enter the premises and shall accompany with said application a fee as
assessed by the Board of Trustees per front foot of the lot so to be served by
water, if frontage fees have not been heretofore paid on said lot and in
addition thereto, shall render the sum as assessed by the Board of Trustees for
each tap not greater than three-fourths-inch size before such tap shall be
made. Larger connections shall be made at actual cost of labor and materials
plus 10% for overhead expense and such taps or connections to the water mains
shall be then made by the employees of the village’s Water Department or the
plumber engaged by the applicant.
   (B)   Service connections. The laying of all water service connections and
pipes, setting of water service fixtures in streets and public grounds to be
served by the village, shall be made by the employees of the village’s Water
Department or by duly licensed plumbers under supervision of the Water
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
   (C)   Permit. After a service connection has been laid, no plumber or other
person shall make any attachment or connection to it to serve other premises so
as to connect the same with the water system, unless he, she, or they shall
procure a written permit from the Board of Trustees, specifying the particular
additions, repairs or alterations to be made, and shall perform such work in
conformity with such permit, ordinances of the village, and the rules and
regulations of the village’s Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14)
(Ord. 9-1959, passed - -; Ord. 80-4, passed 10-7-1980; Ord. 81-2, passed 6-2-
1981) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.22 SERVICE PIPES; SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Service pipes.
      (1)   Where laid. No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes
across lots or buildings to adjoining premises. All service pipe shall be laid
on streets, alleys, or public ground to the premises to be served, and enter at
the front or rear of the building nearest the main.
      (2)   Construction.
         (a)   The portion of the water service pipe from the water main to the
meter must be laid of copper, Type K, or plastic pipe of at least 160 pound
test.
         (b)   No water service pipe or tap for any building shall be less than
three-fourths inch in diameter.
         (c)   Plumbers installing water service pipes shall close the curb
shut-off and leave it closed upon completion of their work and when pipes are
laid to the curb, only they shall close the end of the pipe or fitting with a
right metal plug or cap.
      (3)   Connections between different services prohibited. When there are
two or more services on premises, the piping from each service must be kept
separate, and no connection made from one to the other.
      (4)   Depth. Service pipes must be laid at least four feet below the
surface of the ground. When pipes are laid in streets or grounds subject to
fixed grades, where the surface of the ground is higher than the established
grades, they shall be so laid that they will be at least four feet below the
established grade, except in sandy soil formation, the Board of Trustees may
require pipes be laid to a depth of at least five feet below the established
grade.
      (5)   Maintenance. All service pipes and fixtures to and including shut-
off at the property line including the corporation cocks at the main shall be
installed and maintained at the expense of the village and any leaks or other
defects in the same shall be repaired by the village and the Water Department
shall have the authority to shut off water for a reasonable time in order to
make such repairs. All water pipes and fixtures from the shut-off valve to the
meter shall be installed and maintained by the property owner. All repairs to
service pipes and fixtures from the shut-off valve to the meter shall be
maintained and paid at the expense of the owner and any leaks or other defects
shall be properly repaired by them. If not promptly repaired, the water shall
be turned off until such repairs have been made and the expense thereby shall
be charged against such owner and must be paid before the water shall be turned
on again.
      (6)   Breakage. The village shall not be held responsible by reason of
the breaking of any service pipe or apparatus, water coil, or for failure in
the supply of water.
      (7)   Abandoned pipes. All service pipes that may become useless because
of laying of larger or other new services or because water will no longer be
used through them must be permanently closed off at the water main at the
expense of the owner of the premises and so reported to the village. No plumber
or owner of property shall disconnect or remove water supply fixtures or piping
from any premises served by the village’s Water Department or alter the same in
such a way as to make the service connection unnecessary for the premises
without permanently closing off the connections at the water main and reporting
the same to the village. If a service pipe or connection which is not being
used is found to be leaking, the Village Water Department may, without notice,
repair or turn off the same and charge the expense thereof to the owner of
property for which the connection was made.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15)
   (B)   Separate connections. There shall be separate service pipes laid from
the main to each building wherever there is a water main laid in front or rear
of such building. The mode of entry should be at the discretion of the Water
Department. Where services are laid to premises where there are no water mains
available for direct connections, a small temporary main will be permitted to
be laid as hereinafter provided under §
50.25. In all cases each building served must have an independent service shut-
off.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-16)
(Ord. passed 2-6-1946; Ord. 9-1959, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 SERVICE CURB COCKS.
   (A)   A curb stop box and shut-off for controlling the supply of water to
consumers shall be placed on every service. When connections are made in
streets or avenues, the stop box shall be placed 12 inches outside the sidewalk
line on the street side; and when made in alleys, it shall be placed 12 inches
outside the lot line. The cover of said stop box shall be maintained at the
same height as the sidewalk or the surrounding ground. Where area walls or curb
lines prevent the location of stop box and shut-off at the point indicated,
they shall be placed immediately within the area wall or curb line. All stop
boxes must be set on a line drawn at right angles to the main through the
service corporation or connection in the main.
   (B)   Every service pipe must also have a stop and waste placed in the
building within nine inches of the point where the pipe enters the building.
Said stop must have a handle or wrench attached to turn the same, and be kept
in working order at all times so that the water may be shut off by the occupant
of the premises. There shall also be a gate valve placed on the outlet side of
the water meter not more than three feet from the meter, so that the meter can
be taken out or replaced without draining the pipe system in the building.
   (C)   All stop cocks on the line of service must have round ways of the same
diameter as the pipe with which they are placed and with proper handles for
turning on and off, and of a make and pattern approved by the village.
   (D)   Whenever a meter cannot be set on the premises without danger of
freezing, difficulty of reading, or other cause inimical to the Water
Department service, the village may demand the installation of an outside meter
box and shut off; type to be designated by him, her, or them. In lieu of the
stop box herein described, the Superintendent of Water and Streets may demand
the installation of an outside meter box and shut off; type to be designated by
him, her, or them. The stop box used shall be of a design approved by the
village, and must have an unobstructed opening at least two inches in diameter
and fitted with a substantial cover on which shall be marked the word “Water”
in raised letters.
   (E)   The outside shut-off and stop box shall be under the sole control of
the village’s Water Department and no one except an employee or person
specially authorized by the village’s Water Department shall open the cover of
such box, or turn on or off water; provided, however, that licensed plumbers
may turn on or off water for testing plumbing or making repairs, but whenever
so used, the shut-off must be left closed if found closed, and open if found
open, by the plumber who uses it.
   (F)   Owners of premises, having water services which do not have separate
curb stop cocks and boxes for each building or which otherwise do not conform
to the requirements in this chapter at the time of its passage, shall be
required to put in such curb stop cock or make such other changes as are
necessary to conform to these requirements when so instructed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-17) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER.
   (A)   The village may, when necessary, without notice, shut the water off in
its mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions or for other
purposes, and no claims shall be made against the village by reason of the
breakage of any service pipe or service cock, or from any other damage that may
result from shutting off water for repairing, laying or relaying mains,
hydrants, or other connections.
   (B)   The village’s Water Department shall give notice of shutting off water
if conditions are such that it is possible to do so.
   (C)   When water is shut off for making repairs tn premises having water
heat-coils in heaters, consumers should turn off the water at the basement
shut-off and open a faucet in the hot water pipe and leave it open until water
is turned on in order to protect piping and fixtures from excessive pressures
from hot water or steam.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-18)
§ 50.25 TEMPORARY MAINS.
   (A)   (1)   Pipe laid temporarily in the streets where there are no water
mains must be laid in the line where water mains will be laid in the future,
and if under four inches in size the service pipe must be of copper Type K or
plastic at least 160 pound test from the main to the meter and from meter to
the premises to be served. The location of the meter shall be designated by the
village. Four-inch pipe or larger shall be cast iron.
      (2)   Temporary mains shall be laid at the expense of the party to be
served through service.
      (3)   The permit for any temporary main shall provide that the size of
such main shall be designated by the Water Department subject to the approval
of the Board of Trustees and shall be of a size as to allow other party
connections to be made to such main if requested by intervening property owners
or to allow any further extension which may be deemed necessary by the Water
Department.
      (4)   The Water Department shall determine on a just and equitable basis
any amount due the original party granted a permit to lay such main, whenever
any future permit for connection on such main is granted by the Water
Department and shall be paid by party requesting such connection to party who
laid such main under original permit.
   (B)   However, if at any future time, the village deems it necessary to
extend its regular water service for the purpose of fire protection on any
street or alley service and paralleling such temporary main, then all consumers
being served by such temporary main shall abandon their service connection with
such temporary main and establish a new connection with the regular village
main so installed.
   (C)   All service connections with regularly laid village water mains shall
be made before the beginning of any paving constructed on any street or alley
so designated by the Board of Trustees to be paved. All property owners
abutting such street or alley designated to be paved shall, upon being notified
of such improvement, immediately establish such connections with the water main
serving said street or alley ordered paved; provided, however, if such
connection to water main is not made when requested, the village may, at its
discretion, make such necessary connection before paving said streets or alleys
and charge the cost of same to the abutting property owners served by said
mains.
   (D)   No permit shall be granted for the opening of any pavement for the
purpose of making water connections until a period of two years has elapsed
after such paving.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-19) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Application for water must be made by the owner of the premises to be
served or his, her, or their authorized agent to the Village Clerk, stating the
street and number when such water is desired and shall be made upon forms
furnished by the village.
   (B)   If the meter is to be installed in a new or remodeled building or
structure, the applicant must furnish to the village a certificate for
occupancy, issued by the Plumbing Inspector, and if all charges for water
previously furnished such applicant, and all other charges due for services
furnished or to be furnished at such premises by the Water Department have been
paid, and if a suitable place is provided for the meter, then the village shall
cause a meter to be set and the water to be turned on to the stop inside the
basement where the owner or occupant may turn on the water into the piping
system and fixtures of the premises.
   (C)   (1)   No person, either owner or tenant, who, in changing his, her, or
their residence from one location to any other location served by the Water
Department, shall be given water service until any and all delinquent water
rentals which are charged against them at former place of residence shall have
been paid in full. No water at new location shall be turned on, and if so,
shall be turned off until settlement of such delinquent water rental at former
location is made.
      (2)   A charge as assessed by the Board of Trustees will be made for
turning on water and renewing service.
   (D)   In turning on water, the village or the Water Department shall not be
responsible for any damage that may occur by reason of improper fixtures, open
or improper connections or for any other causes.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-21)
Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.27 DISCONNECTION AND DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Owners or consumers desiring to discontinue the use of water shall
give notice thereof in writing to the Village Clerk or arrange for the water to
be turned off and the meter removed. Water rents or charges for services shall
be made until such notice is given. When water service is discontinued, all
water rentals for such service shall become due and payable. When water service
is again desired after having been discontinued, a charge as assessed by the
Board of Trustees shall be made and collected before turning on water and
renewing service.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22)
   (B)   That any existing residence, business, or other entity currently
located, outside the corporate limits of the village and being provided water
service, shall be mandated to comply with the following upon disconnection from
provided water service.
   (C)   The residence, business of other entity desiring to disconnect, shall
cause the disconnection point to be at the point of connection with the
village’s main water line or in the event of more than one service on an
existing line, then the point of disconnection shall be at the point of
connection to the auxiliary line of service.
   (D)   The residence, business, or other entity owner shall be solely
responsible for any and all costs associated with the disconnection as
aforesaid. The work to be preformed shall be subject to the approval and
direction of the village and due notice shall be given to the village prior to
commencement of disconnection work.
   (E)   Any work which is completed in an unworkmanlike manner or interferes
with water service of the village, shall be deemed in direct violation of this
subchapter and any costs incurred by the village shall be assessed against the
residence, business or other entity owner and shall cause a lien to be placed
upon the applicable property.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.28 UNNECESSARY WASTE.
   Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. If unnecessary waste of water takes
place, the Water Department reserves the right to cut off the supply. The
village reserves the right to prohibit the use of water for yard sprinklers,
elevators and large consumers of water when in the judgment of the village it
shall be necessary to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-23) (Ord. passed 2-6-1946) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Meters required.
      (1)   All water furnished consumers shall be metered. All meters shall be
furnished and set by the Water Department, but owners must provide suitable
location in piping system for same. Meters shall be placed on service pipe not
to exceed two feet from the wall where such pipe enters the premises. There
shall be a stop and waste between the meter and the wall and a suitable place
provided for the meter so as to keep it dry and clean and readily accessible at
all times to the meter reader and inspectors of the Water Department. A gate
valve shall also be placed on the pipe on the outlet side of each meter not
more than three feet from the meter. All valves and fittings necessary to
comply with these requirements and to provide connection to meter, except a
coupling or flange at each end of meter, shall be provided by the owner of
premises to be served.
      (2)   For services larger than two inches in diameter, the Water
Department reserves the right to install two or more meters of smaller size.
Where meters are so placed, each meter shall have a valve or shut-off on both
inlet and outlet pipe in addition to the basement shut-off.
      (3)   Where a service pipe larger than two inches in diameter is used,
the plumber shall call at the office of the Village Clerk to arrange for
instructions regarding the fittings and space to be provided for the water
meters.
      (4)   In case that two or more meters are desired for measuring water to
different tenants in the same building from one service connection, they shall
be so placed that no one of them shall measure water which has passed through
another one.
      (5)   Each residential home, apartment, private dwelling, and place of
business, heretofore erected, established, or structurally modified must be
equipped with a water meter furnished by the village. Each residential dwelling
unit shall have a seperate water meter.
      (6)   Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy access.
   (B)   Owners to protect meters.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of premises where a meter is installed shall
be held responsible for its care and protection from freezing or hot water and
from other injury or interference from any person or persons. In case of any
injury to the meter, or in case of its stoppage or imperfect working, he, she,
or they shall give immediate notice to the office of the Water Department In
all cases where meters are broken or damaged by negligence of owners or
occupants of premises, or by freezing, hot water, or other injuries, except
ordinary wear and tear, the necessary repairs to the meter shall be made by the
Water Department and the cost of such repairs paid for by such owner or
occupant, and in case payment thereof is neglected or refused, the water supply
shall be turned off and shall not be turned on until full payment has been
made, together with a fee assessed by the Board of Trustees for turning on the
water again. Damaged meters may be repaired by the Water Department without
first giving notice thereof to the owner of premises served by such meter.
      (2)   No one shall in any way interfere with the proper registration of a
water meter, and no one except an authorized representative of the Water
Department shall break a seal of a meter; provided, however, that the village
may grant written permits to licensed plumbers in case of emergency to break
such seal for draining pipes or stopping water leaks.
      (3)   Wherever a water meter is installed on a water service in premises
that is to be remodeled, removed or destroyed, or where the service is
discontinued so that the water meter is no longer needed, the owner of such
premises shall give notice in writing to the Village Clerk to arrange for the
removal of such meter, and free access to such meter must be provided at least
24 hours after notice is given so that the meter may be removed. The owner of
the premises shall be held responsible for the meter until such written notice
is given, and if the meter is covered or lost, he, she, or they shall be
required to pay for the same at the actual value.
   (C)   Testing meters.
      (1)   In case there is doubt as to the accuracy of a water meter on the
part of the consumer, he, she, or they may have the meter tested by the Water
Department at which test he, she, or they may be present or have a
representative present if he, she, or they so desires. If the meter is found to
measure more than 2% incorrectly, no charge shall be made for making the test.
If the meter should be found to over-register more than 2% there shall be a
proportional deduction made from the previous water bill. A water meter shall
be considered to register satisfactorily when it registers within 2% of
accuracy.
      (2)   If upon investigation and testing of the meter, the consumer is
dissatisfied with the bill as then rendered, he, she, or they may within five
days after the investigated or corrected bill is rendered to him, her, or them,
file with the President of the Board of Trustees, a complaint in writing,
setting up the grounds of his, her, or their complaint. At the next regularly
scheduled meeting, the Board of Trustees shall pass on said bill and complaint,
and the decision of a majority of said Board shall be final.
      (3)   Penalty for nonpayment of bill in time required by this chapter
shall attach unless decision is in favor of the consumer.
   (D)   Access to premises. The village and its employees and agents,
including all water meter inspectors, shall be given ready access to the
premises wherein water meters are located for the purpose of reading,
examining, testing, repairing, and replacing such meters and fixtures. In the
event the village is not permitted to conduct any reading, examination, test,
repair, or replacement it deems necessary or convenient to assure compliance
with this chapter or other applicable governmental regulations, the village
shall have the right to terminate water service upon 48 hours’ notice posted at
the premises or the village may request a court of competent jurisdiction to
issue such administrative warrant or order as may be applicable, to fully
inspect any building or premises to determine compliance with this and any
other ordinance or regulation and to assess attorney fees and court costs
against the property owner.
   (E)   Access to water meter and meter reader. The property owner shall not
obstruct access to the water meter or any meter reader of any property served
by the village water supply. Property owners will be required to permanently
remove any such obstructions within a reasonable period of time. If the
obstruction is not removed as directed, the village shall have the right to
terminate water service upon 48 hours’ notice posted at the premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-24) (Ord. passed 2-6-1946; Ord. 4-1976, passed - - ; Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-21-2023) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.30 CONNECTIONS FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   Service connections which are to be used exclusively for supplying water to
extinguish fire may be granted upon the following conditions.
   (A)   Application for such connection shall be made in writing by the owner
of the premises to be served, or his, her, or their legal representative on a
form furnished by the village which shall include the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   The applicant must furnish with the application complete and correct
drawing or set of drawings showing the location of the premises to be supplied,
together with location of all valves, pipes, hydrants, tanks sprinkler heads,
and other appurtenances on the premises, the plans to remain the property of
the Water Department. The applicant shall also agree to furnish the Water
Department with drawings showing revisions to piping and appurtenances whenever
the same are made.
   (C)   All fire service connections shall be installed by the Water
Department from the street main to a point just inside the wall of the building
or to the lot line where buildings are set back from the lot line. The owners
shall pay the cost of the labor and materials for such extensions and 10%
additional to cover overhead expense. All repairs to the service pipe between
street main and the building shall be done by the Water Department at the
expense of the owner.
   (D)   The Water Department shall limit the size of fire protection services
where the street mains are of such size as to make it necessary in order to
protect public interest. If more than one service is installed to the same
premises, the piping system of one shall not be connected with the other except
by special permission of the Board of Trustees upon recommendation of the
Superintendent of Water and Streets.
   (E)   No water shall be drawn from the fire service pipes for any purpose
whatever except for the extinguishment of fires, and no connection shall be
made between the fire service pipe system and the regular water supply of the
premises, and valves on those outlets, drain cocks, and the like June 13, 2022,
placed on the pipe system shall be a style that can be sealed by the Inspector
of the Water Department, and when any such valve or cock is opened, the owner
or occupant of the premises shall notify the Water Department so that the same
can be resealed at once. This division (E) is not to be construed as
prohibiting a reasonable use of water for fire drills, draining of a system to
prevent freezing or other reasonable use in connection with proper fire
protection.
   (F)   All fire protection systems supplied with water from the village
service shall be supplied exclusively with such water and no connection shall
be allowed with any other system drawing its supply from any other source
whereby the village water supply may be contaminated by the failure to close
valves, or leaking check valves, and the like, and no auxiliary or secondary
suction pipe to any fire pump taking water from any contaminated source will be
permitted.
   (G)   Any fire protection system using water from any other source than the
village service shall be kept entirely separate from any such system supplied
from the village service.
   (H)   All fire services shall be subject to inspection by the Inspector of
the Water Department who will visit all premises having fire services from time
to time, and the owners or tenants shall give the Inspector all reasonable
facilities for making the inspection, and any information concerning the same
that they may require. Care will always be taken that inspections will be made
with as little inconvenience to the owners or occupants as possible.
   (I)   In any case when the owners or occupants of any premises are found to
be using water from a fire service for other purposes than fire protection, the
water shall be shut off from same until the offenders shall give reasonable
assurance before the Board of Trustees that the offense will not be repeated,
and a charge as assessed by the Board of Trustees will be required for turning
on the water after it has been shut off for this cause. A second violation of
this rule will be considered sufficient cause for cutting the service off at
the main and refusing to reconnect same while the offender occupies the
premises.
   (J)   Failure to pay the cost of installing the fire service or any
subsequent repairs thereto, within 30 days after the receipt of the bill, will
be sufficient cause for turning off the water from the supply.
   (K)   The village may require the owner of the premises supplied to furnish
and install, at his, her, or their expense and under the direction of the
Superintendent of Water and Streets, an approved water meter and to keep the
same in accurate operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-29) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.31 CONTRACTORS’ SERVICES.
   (A)   When a temporary service is desired by contractors and builders for
water to be used on construction work, they shall make application to the
Superintendent of Water and Streets and deposit with the Water Department, the
sum of an amount as assessed by the Board of Trustees for a swing meter to be
used on such services; provided, however, that in lieu of a cash deposit, the
application may be signed by three freeholders of the village as sureties who
will guarantee payment of such water service charges and the return of the
meter in good order.
   (B)   The charges for such water service shall be at the same rate as other
services, including minimum monthly charges. No one shall use water that is not
measured by a meter furnished by the Water Department.
   (C)   All swing meters shall be returned to the meter room of the Water
Department office before November 1 of each year for reading and testing. A
penalty of an amount as assessed by the Board of Trustees shall be charged for
swing meters that are not returned as above specified.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-30) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.32 SUPPLYING OTHERS; ADDITIONAL SOURCES OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other persons, nor suffer them to
take it except by special permission from the Superintendent of Water and
Streets or his, her, or their agents. Where such permission is granted, the
owner of the service from which the water is taken shall be responsible for
payment of the rates.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-31)
   (B)   (1)   On premises where water is supplied from two sources, the
village water being one of them, the piping system for village water must be
entirely separated from that of the other source. If other than village water
is to be furnished premises previously supplied with village water, the owner
or his, her, or their plumber must give notice at the office of the Water
Department when he, she, or they will make this change and must also cut off
the village water at the corporation cock and disconnect the service pipe.
      (2)   Premises now having direct connection between the village water
supply and another supply shall forthwith disconnect the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-32)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person, save and except members of the Fire Department or
Department of Streets and Public Improvements of the village or officers or
employees of the Water Department of the village shall open any hydrant
belonging to said Water Department between November 15 and March 1 of any year.
   (B)   No person, save and except members of the Fire Department or
Department of Streets and Public Improvements of the village, or officers or
employees of the Water Department acting in the regular performance of their
duties shall open any hydrant belonging to the Water Department at any time
without a permit in writing signed by the Superintendent of Water and Streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-35) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 AFTER HOURS SERVICE CALL CHARGES.
   A charge of $200 or the cost actually incurred by the village will be
assessed for service calls after normal business hours. The charge shall be
billed to the consumer’s account and be due and payable on the next water bill.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-21-2023)
PAYMENT PROCEDURES
§ 50.45 WATER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The water rents or rates are hereby established by the Village Board
and shall be collected for all water consumption and water service rendered by
the village.
   (B)   Water service shall be by meter registration; provided, however, there
shall be a monthly minimum charge made against all connections per month or any
part thereof, where the village water supply has not been shut off or
discontinued by the Water Department as assessed by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   All bills for the payment of water shall be due and payable on or
before the fifteenth day of the month when said bill is rendered and any and
all bills not paid by the fifteenth of said month shall be deemed delinquent.
   (D)   (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s
discontinuance notice form shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before the date specified in
the disconnection notice, service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as assessed by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   A service charge is hereby imposed upon delinquent water accounts as
assessed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 8-23-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 50.46 REFUNDS.
   No refunds or discounts on water rentals shall be made on account of the
premises having been vacant or no water used, unless water has been shut off by
the Water Department upon written request of the owner or consumer.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-26)
§ 50.47 ACCOUNTS; RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   Water service accounts shall be kept in the name of the owner of the
property served, and only such owner shall be recognized as the consumer,
except where the tenant makes a deposit of an amount of money in the office of
the Water Department.
   (B)   Where no deposits are made, the owner of the premises served shall be
held responsible for the payment of all water rentals and all other proper
charges in connection with water service to his, her, or their premises, but
such payments will be accepted from tenants if tendered by them, but accepting
payments from tenants shall not subsequently relieve the owner of premises from
the responsibility of paying water rentals or other service charges when due.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-27) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.48 LIEN; FORECLOSURE.
   In addition to any other remedy provided herein for the enforcement or
collection of any water tax or rent, all such rates or rents shall be a lien
upon the premises and real estate and for which the same is used or supplied.
Any such lien shall attach when the water bill becomes delinquent and may be
endorsed together with the costs and penalties by foreclosure in equity in any
court having jurisdiction in the same manner and with like force and affects
the foreclosure of all liens of mortgages and trust deeds.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-28) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not less than
$75 nor more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-36) (Ord. passed 2-6-1946)
CHAPTER 51: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
51.01   General provisions
   
51.02   Purpose and application; general policy
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Water system
   
51.05   Prohibitions
   
51.06   Survey and investigations
   
51.07   Required protection
   
51.08   Backflow prevention devices and booster pumps
   
51.09   Inspection and maintenance
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. That, if in
accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer or Village Clerk
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his, her, or their own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with the state’s Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and
as required by the state’s Plumbing Code and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village enter the supply or distribution system of the
village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
village’s designee and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the village’s designee, such as the
Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer, to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as
often as the Superintendent of Water or Board of Trustees shall deem necessary.
Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a
period of at least ten years.
   (D)   The approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or other authorized agent of the village shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water or the village’s
authorized agent any information which may be requested regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal to provide such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent
of Water or Village Engineer, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   After reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to
any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist may be disconnected by the village and the village
may take such other precautionary measures as may be deemed necessary to
eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution
mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee as assessed by the Board of
Trustees is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can
be effected when the village is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Village Engineer or the state’s
Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
village, the Superintendent of Water, the Village Engineer or their agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 51.02 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION; GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is to:
      (1)   Protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)   Promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)   Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the village.
   (C)   Policy. The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or an authorized
representative of the village, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent
of Water or the Village Engineer or the Village Clerk shall give notice to the
consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each service
connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his, her, or their own expense; failure, refusal
or inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall
retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair as required in
§
51.06(D)(4) for a period of at least five years. The village may require the
consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the village to
assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be required.
All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a Cross-Connection
Control Device Inspector certified by the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Waterworks
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These WATERS may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All DEVICES USED FOR
BACKFLOW PREVENTION in the state must meet the standards of the state’s
Plumbing Code and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping, and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the state’s Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 601 et seq.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge
of pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the
point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 601
et seq., for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks, and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply.”
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each DEVICE shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015)
§ 51.04 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the village up to the point where the
consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the village or
the Agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair, and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the village, or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems or
water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s premises shall be open
at all reasonable times to the village for the verification of information
submitted by the consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-
connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his, her, or their premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his, her,
or their water system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow
into his, her, or their or the public potable water system. All cross-
connection control or other plumbing inspections must be conducted in
accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
            (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the
time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency
as a Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of
mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions; and
      (4)   Regarding testing and records:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer;
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4;
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs; and
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and dated completed.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 REQUIRED PROTECTION.
   (A)   Where protection is required.
      (1)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 681. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer, actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply system exist.
      (2)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the village and the source is
approved by the Agency.
         (b)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the village.
         (c)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer and the Cross-Connection
Control Device Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist.
         (d)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
         (e)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
      (3)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water or the Village
Engineer determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water
supply system exist:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, or nursing homes;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Piers, docks, or waterfront facilities;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants;
         (g)   Metal plating industries;
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (j)   Car washes;
         (k)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; or
         (l)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   (B)   Type of protection required.
      (1)   The type of protection required under these regulations shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
         (a)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         (b)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
         (c)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause
a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
      (2)   The type of protection required under these regulations shall be an
approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device.
      (3)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used
for a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply
when:
         (a)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
         (b)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
         (c)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can
be pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
         (d)   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to
the sprinkler system.
      (4)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines as
described in Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES AND BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices.
      (1)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules
and regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American
National Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation
to be in compliance with applicable industry specification.
      (2)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with
35 Ill. Adm. Code 653.802, and only as specified by the Research Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern California or applicable
industry specifications. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of the
device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be available
on-site.
   (B)   Booster pumps.
      (1)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer, at least once a year, that the
device is operable.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within 15 days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water or the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The village shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the village, or if it is
found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in
working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water
or the Village Engineer, and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Neither the village, the Superintendent of Water, the Village Engineer
or their agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers of the village for
any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said
customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter and its
related rules and regulations, whether or not said termination of the water
supply was with or without notice.
   (D)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypasses, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (E)   Any person found to be violating any provision of these rules and
regulations shall be served with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violation.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of these rules and
regulations in addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the
village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of
such violations, whether the same was caused before or after notice.
   (G)   In addition, any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $750 each day a
violation exists. If court action is necessary, the violator shall pay the
village’s attorney’s fees and court costs, if found guilty.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Permit for sewer connection   
   
52.02   Septic tank required   
   
52.03   Inspection of septic tank   
   
52.04   Wells, cisterns prohibited   
   
52.05   Grease traps   
   
52.06   Permit; tile or filter change   
   
52.07   Bond; tile installation   
   
52.08   Streets and sidewalks left in good condition   
   
52.09   Substances prohibited in sewer   
   
52.10   Injury to sewer; cost of repairs
   
52.11   Connection to stormwater drainage system prohibited
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 PERMIT FOR SEWER CONNECTION.
   Any person wishing to connect or have connected any private drain or sewer
with any public sewer, or sewer built or owned by the village, shall first
apply to the Board of Trustees of the village, setting forth the exact location
and size of the inlet where such connection is sought to be made, or setting
forth that there is no suitable inlet and prescribing the place and size of the
proposed connection, and in all places setting forth the materials to be used
in making such connection, and the said Board of Trustees may thereupon direct
the Village Clerk to issue a permit to such person to make or have made a
connection of the size and materials, and at the place designated. Such
connection shall be made under the supervision of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 SEPTIC TANK REQUIRED.
   No connection shall be made within a public sewer or sewer built or owned by
the village until there is installed a septic tank approved by the County
Health Department. Then, six feet of coarse gravel or small stones shall be
used as a filter, which said septic tank and filter shall be placed upon the
premises of the person seeking permission to connect with the public sewers,
and tile run from said filter to the public sewer and all connections must be
cemented and all sewer tile cemented.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 INSPECTION OF SEPTIC TANK.
   Such septic tank and filter must be inspected by the Sewer Committee of the
Village Board and approved by them before said tile is connected with the
public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 WELLS, CISTERNS PROHIBITED.
   No old wells or cisterns shall be permitted to be used as a septic tank.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 GREASE TRAPS.
   Drainage from wash basins, bath tubs, and kitchen and slop sinks or any
drain from grease pits must be filtered through grease traps.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 PERMIT; TILE OR FILTER CHANGE.
   No tile or filter connected with the public sewers shall be taken up or
changed without a permit from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 BOND; TILE INSTALLATION.
   Before any tile may be installed in a village street, the person digging
such ditch for such purpose
must furnish a bond in the sum of $10,000 to indemnify the village against any
loss or damage that it might occasion by virtue of granting said permit or for
opening said public street, and barricades and flares or red lanterns must be
maintained on all open ditches.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-7) (Ord. passed 8-7-1946) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS LEFT IN GOOD CONDITION.
   The person or persons making sewer or drain connections under permit as
provided in §
52.01, shall leave the public streets and sidewalks in as good condition as
before he, she, or they commence work, and in a condition satisfactory to the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-8) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED IN SEWER.
   No garbage, butcher’s offal, dead animal, or other obstruction shall be
deposited or thrown into any sewer, sewer inlet or catch basin.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-9) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 INJURY TO SEWER; COST OF REPAIRS.
   Whoever shall within the village, break, deface, injure, or remove any cap,
stone, or grate, belonging to any catch basin, man-hole, or inlet of any sewer,
or shall in any way obstruct or injure the mouth thereof, shall for each
offense be subject to a penalty as provided in this chapter and shall pay the
cost of repairs.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-10) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 CONNECTION TO STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or institution,
public or private, to connect or cause to be connected, any drain carrying, or
to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste,
or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to any open ditch,
drain, or drainage structure installed solely for street or highway drainage
purposes in the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-11) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined not
less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation continues
or exists.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-11) (Ord. 2A, passed 5-29-1973)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Containers
   
53.03   Use of dumpsters
   
53.04   Dumping on private property
   
53.05   Dumping on public property
   
53.06   Contract for collection for residential solid waste
   
53.07   Service charges for residential collection
   
53.08   Other disposal
Recycling; Contractor Regulations
   
53.20   Duty to provide containers
   
53.21   Container specifications
   
53.22   Receptacle for ashes
   
53.23   Disposal in another’s dumpster
   
53.24   Theft of recyclables
   
53.25   Depositing garbage in street
 
   
53.99   Penalty   
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK WASTE. White goods, furniture, and other waste materials other than
construction debris or hazardous, waste with weights or volumes greater than
those allowed for containers or carts.
   CONTRACTED HAULER or CONTRACTOR. The person or company that has been
contracted by the village to provide residential garbage, refuse and ashes
collection, and/or recycling services.
   DUMPSTER. Any bulk container with a capacity greater than one cubic yard
constructed and placed for use as a depository for garbage.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce;
combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes,
barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, and
bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
and crockery; other mineral waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited
to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, and catch basin dirt; contents of litter
receptacles; ashes; residue from fires used for cooking and for heating
buildings; waste; and/or unwholesome materials of every kind and character.
   HAULER. Any person or company in the business of collecting or hauling
garbage, refuse, recyclable material, landscape waste, brush, or other solid
waste on a continuous and regular basis, and making multiple, scheduled
collections per month within a county.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Materials (whether solids, liquids, or gases) that
constitute a hazard to health or safety, including, but not limited to,
poisons, acids, caustic materials or solutions: chemicals; Freon gas:
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs); asbestos; lead-based paints; infectious or
infected wastes; radioactive materials; petroleum products; explosives;
flammable substances; and any waste, substance, or material that under any
federal, state, or local environmental law is deemed hazardous, toxic, a
pollutant, or a contaminant.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, and noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to,
metals and tin cans. However, REFUSE does not mean white goods, earth and
wastes from building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting
from industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boiler-house cinders, lumber, and the like.
   RESIDENTIAL. All single-family residences, duplexes, apartments, mobile
homes, and trailers.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage and refuse and waste products typically generated by
occupied residential properties. SOLID WASTE does not include discarded
building materials; yard waste; or trees, brush, and other materials from land
clearing.
   WHITE GOODS. Any large household appliance, including refrigerators, stoves,
dishwashers, water heaters, washers, dryers, or other similar appliances.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.02 CONTAINERS.
   Any person or entity using or occupying any building, house, or structure
within the village shall provide and maintain in good order and repair garbage
receptacles of sufficient number to contain the garbage that will accumulate on
the premises.
   (A)   Specifications. Containers used for storage of garbage shall be water
tight and meet the following specifications.
      (1)   Cans. Garbage cans shall be of a durable grade of galvanized metal,
hard rubber, or plastic from a 20- to 30-gallon capacity. They shall be
provided with a tightly fitting cover.
      (2)   Bags. Garbage bags shall be made of heavy, multi-ply paper, or
plastic designed for outdoor storage of garbage. Bags must be securely tied or
sealed to prevent emission of odors, be of a material so liquids and greases
will not be able to penetrate through the material, and be of sufficient
thickness and strength to contain the garbage enclosed without tearing or
ripping under normal handling.
      (3)   Totes or carts. Totes or carts provided by a commercial contractor
providing waste removal services to the premises. All residential solid waste
designated for collection and disposal must be placed in the contracted
hauler’s provided tote or cart, if required by the contracted hauler’s contract
with the village. If a contracted hauler’s provided tote or cart is not
required, solid waste must be contained and may be placed in covered cans or
bags as noted above. Replacement of damaged containers, totes, or carts shall
be as provided for in the village’s contract with the contracted hauler.
      (4)   Other. Any garbage not susceptible to placement in a container may
be securely tied in bundles not heavier than 70 pounds, not more than four feet
in length, nor more than 18 inches in diameter. Wooden boxes, crates, pallets,
or cardboard boxes are to be broken down and stacked neatly.
   (B)   Damaged or deteriorating containers. Containers which have
deteriorated, or have been damaged to the extent that the covers will not fit
securely or those having jagged or sharp edges capable of causing injury to
garbage collectors or other persons, are declared a nuisance. If such
containers are not removed within five days after notice of such defective
conditions to the owner or user, then such containers may be confiscated by the
village.
   (C)   Placement for collection. In the case of residential premises, each
container shall be kept in the side yard or rear yard setback of the premises
from which it is to be collected except on the days designated for collection.
On the collection day, the containers shall be placed for collection on the
curb, in front of the premises, or on the curb at the side of the premises
where the premises are adjacent to more than one street, as close to the curb
line or edge of roadway as is practicable. Containers shall not be placed on
the public street, alley, or roadway. Residential containers shall not be
collected from village alleys except by special permission granted by the
Village Board.
   (D)   Time of placement. No person or entity shall place or shall permit to
be placed any garbage container at the place of collection at the premises
before 5:30 p.m. on the day preceding the scheduled collection. No container
may be left at the place of collection after 8:00 p.m. on the day of
collection.
   (E)   Tampering with containers. No person or entity other than the owner or
occupant of the premises where a container is located, or the contractor who
provides collection services at the premises where the container is located,
shall tamper with, injure, destroy, or remove any container or other equipment
used for the storage of garbage.
   (F)   Unauthorized use of containers. It is unlawful to dump or place any
garbage on any premises in the village without the consent of the owner or
occupant of such premises.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 2024-08,
passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 USE OF DUMPSTERS.
   Dumpsters used for storage of garbage shall meet the following
specifications.
   (A)   Placement. Dumpsters shall be kept in the side yard or rear yard of
residential and commercial premises or in a location approved by the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Minimum standards. Any dumpster used in the village shall meet the
following standards.
      (1)   Dumpsters less than 20 cubic yards in size shall be capable of
being closed on all sides, except when open for deposit or servicing.
      (2)   Dumpsters greater than 20 cubic yards in size shall be capable of
being secured so as to prevent the spillage of garbage from the container.
      (3)   Any dumpster used in the village shall be maintained and serviced
with a frequency sufficient to prevent spillage from overflow, to prevent the
build-up of offensive odors, or to prevent a public hazard. The responsibility
for the maintenance and servicing of dumpsters shall rest with the user or
renter of the dumpster. The maintenance of dumpsters shall include the clean-up
and removal of all garbage thrown or left on the dumpster and to prevent
garbage from drifting or blowing onto adjacent premises.
      (4)   Dumpster may not be placed on residential properties for more than
30 days, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-21-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 DUMPING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person or entity
to throw, place, dump, or deposit garbage on lots, vacant or occupied,
driveways, or other private property, whether such premises are owned or
occupied by the person or entity so offending of not.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see
§
53.99
§ 53.05 DUMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person or
entity to throw, place, dump, or deposit any garbage in any gutter, street,
sidewalk, parkway, driveway, curb, alley, park, or any other public property of
the village.
   (B)   It is unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person to
place solid waste and/or recyclable materials generated from a residential unit
in refuse receptacles placed by or on behalf of the village in village parks,
along village streets, or in other public locations.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see
§
53.99
§ 53.06 CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION FOR RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The village shall provide for collection of residential solid waste
and, if economical, recycling as provided herein, by contract with a hauler
picking up from each residential user, solid waste and/or recyclable materials
not exceeding the number of containers as provided by a contract entered into
by the village with a hauler. Further provided that each owner and/or occupant
of individual residential premises shall be responsible for removal, at such
owner's and/or occupant's extra expense, of any containers of solid waste or
recyclable materials in excess of the amount provided in this subchapter. No
hauler shall provide residential service within the village without a contract
with the village.
   (B)   All residential users shall dispose of solid waste and/or recyclable
materials though the municipal solid waste service provided by the village
pursuant to the terms of this subchapter and the agreement with the village’s
contracted hauler. Failure to do so is a violation of this subchapter.
      (1)   A residential user may apply for an exemption from the municipal
solid waste service provided by the village by filing a written request for an
exemption with the Village Clerk and providing to the Village Clerk evidence
(such as an invoice, rental agreement, et cetera) of:
         (a)   A prior written agreement for garbage collection for a specified
term; or
         (b)   Use of a commercial dumpster for a business owned by the
residential user and located within the village.
      (2)   The exemption request shall be acted upon by the Village Board at
the meeting following submission of the request.
      (3)   If the number of residential users of the municipal solid waste
service provided by the village falls below the number of users required by the
agreement with the village’s contracted hauler, a requested exemption shall be
denied.
   (C)   No person shall dispose of solid waste and/or recyclable materials
unless the solid waste and recyclable materials complies with all rules and
regulations applicable thereto and established from time to time pursuant by
the village or the village’s contracted hauler.
(Ord. 2024-08. passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 SERVICE CHARGES FOR RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   The fee for collection of residential solid waste and recyclable materials
shall be according the fee schedule set forth in an agreement between the
village and the contracted hauler. The property owner and/or occupant shall be
billed for and be the party responsible for payment of the collection fee.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 OTHER DISPOSAL.
   The owner or occupant of any building, structure or land not eligible for
participation in the village's solid waste collection system shall cause to be
removed all solid waste, garbage, refuse, bulk waste, recyclable materials, or
hazardous materials from such property at the owner’s or occupant’s expense.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024) Penalty, see §
53.99
RECYCLING; CONTRACTOR REGULATIONS
§ 53.20 DUTY TO PROVIDE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or his, her, or their agent of any
house, duplex, condominium, building, flat or apartment or tenement in the
village where people reside, board, lodge, or work, or where animal or
vegetable food is prepared or served, at all times to maintain in good order
and repair containers adequate to refuse, and other solid wasted generated. In
addition, all owners of buildings with three or more separate housing units or
apartments shall provide at least one 30-gallon container or its equivalent for
each unit or apartment.
   (B)   At the owner’s option, a large volume dumpster may be used in lieu of
individual garbage cans as long as the dumpster’s capacity is adequate to
handle the garbage and refuse generated and it is compatible with equipment
employed by the garbage collection agency.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All containers for garbage, refuse, and other solid waste shall be
water-tight made of metal, plastic, rubber, or other similar material of a
durable and nonabsorbent nature and shall have covers or lids which securely
fasten to the container.
   (B)   All containers used for garbage, except approved dumpsters, shall have
a capacity of not less than five gallons nor more than 30 gallons and shall be
provided with suitable handles.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.22 RECEPTACLE FOR ASHES.
   If a separate receptacle is provided for ashes, it shall be of metal and of
not less than ten gallons nor more than 20 gallons.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23 DISPOSAL IN ANOTHER’S DUMPSTER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place any item in a dumpster which is
utilized for the disposal of refuse that is not under said person’s control
either by lease or ownership within the village’s limits.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24 THEFT OF RECYCLABLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pick up any
recyclable item placed for collection in front of a residence unless said
person is licensed as a residential recycling contractor.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.25 DEPOSITING GARBAGE IN STREET.
   No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street, alley, or
public way, excepting as is provided in this chapter, and no such refuse shall
be so placed that it can be blown about or scattered by the wind.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of $75 nor more than $750 each day.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any fine imposed, a
person or entity convicted of violating §§
53.01 through
53.05 may be ordered to remove and properly dispose of the garbage. If court
action is necessary, any person or entity found guilty shall pay the Village
Attorney’s fees, court, and incidental costs, and costs incurred by the village
for removal of any garbage.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-21-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING AND STOPPING
      
72.   NON-HIGHWAY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Authority and Enforcement
   
70.01   Traffic code adopted   
   
70.02   One-way streets and alleys   
   
70.03   Stop streets   
   
70.04   Posting signs
Impoundment and Towing of Vehicles
   
70.15   Vehicles subject to impoundment   
   
70.16   Notice of impoundment   
   
70.17   Administrative hearing   
   
70.18   Administrative fee and other charges   
   
70.19   Abandoned impounded vehicles   
   
70.99   Penalty   
AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5
as now or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
state, as the Traffic Code of the village.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 70.02 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley
designated as a one-way street or alley by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto, and
shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection approaching so close as to constitute an immediate
hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police officer
on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be complied
with.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police or any other person designated by the President and
Board of Trustees shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all such
through streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
IMPOUNDMENT AND TOWING OF VEHICLES
§ 70.15 VEHICLES SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle
to a facility designated by the village’s Police Department.
   (B)   A motor vehicle used in the commission of, or in the attempt to
commit, any of the following offenses is subject to impoundment:
      (1)   An offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized an forfeited
pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/31-1);
      (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-501);
      (3)   A felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/
1 et seq.);
      (4)   An offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act
(720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.);
      (5)   An offense in violation of §§ 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1 of the
Criminal Code of 1961 (720 ILCS 5/24-1, 24-1.5 or 24-3.1);
      (6)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of the state’s
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-303) provided, however, that a vehicle shall not be
subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid parking
or moving citation or due to the failure to comply with emission testing;
      (7)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act or the state’s Controlled Substances Act;
      (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-
101) provided that the period of expiration is greater than one year;
      (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver’s license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code (625 ILCS 5/6-101), or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver’s license or permit due to a person’s age;
      (10)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated the following sections of the state’s Vehicle
Code;
         (a)   Section 6-101, requiring drivers to have licenses or permits
(625 ILCS 5/6-101);
         (b)   Section 6-303, driving while a driver’s license, permit or
privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked (625 ILCS 5/6-
303); or
         (c)   Section 11-501, driving while under the influence of alcohol,
other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination
thereof (625 ILCS 5/11-501).
      (11)   An offense in violation of Art. 16 (theft and related offenses) of
the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/16).
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 70.16 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the Police Department shall notify
or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying
himself, herself, or themself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
offense, of the fact of the seizure, and of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s
right to an administrative hearing.
   (B)   The Police Department shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle
will remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing,
unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the
village a bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by this subchapter
and pays for all towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 70.17 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   An impounded vehicle may be released pending the completion of an
administrative hearing if the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle or a
lienholder of record posts with the village a bond equal to the administrative
fee as provided by this subchapter and pays for all towing and storage charges
or waives the right to a hearing and pays the administrative fee as provided by
this subchapter and pays for all towing and storage charges.
   (B)   The village shall provide the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle and any lienholder of record notice of the administrative hearing. The
notice shall:
      (1)   Be served upon the registered owner, lessee, and any lienholder of
record either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested
party’s address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle
is impounded by the village; and
      (3)   Set forth the date, time, and location of the administrative
hearing. An initial hearing, unless waived, shall be scheduled and convened no
later than 45 days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (C)   The hearing shall be shall be conducted by a hearing officer who is an
attorney licensed to practice law in the state for a minimum of three years.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment.
   (E)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer:
      (1)   Any administrative fee posted to secure the release of the vehicle
shall be forfeited to the village; and
      (2)   No vehicle shall be released to the registered owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until the administrative fee and all towing and storage
charges are paid.
   (F)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law (735
ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) and shall be commenced by filing an action in the Circuit
Court of the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, of the county in accordance with § 3-
104 of the Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/3-104).
   (G)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any administrative
fee imposed under this subchapter or towing and storage which remains unpaid in
whole or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial
review under the Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner
as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 70.18 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE AND OTHER CHARGES.
   (A)   An administrative fee as assessed by the Board of Trustees is imposed
upon the registered owner of an impounded motor vehicle or the agents of any
such owner.
   (B)   The fee imposed in this section shall be collected by and paid to the
village. The administrative fee shall be waived by the village upon verifiable
proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded. The
fee imposed by this section is in addition to:
      (1)   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for the
underlying violations; and
      (2)   Any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the person, firm,
or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
   (C)   Towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to the
person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-17-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 70.19 ABANDONED IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   A vehicle not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
35 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written decision
shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Ch. 4, Art. II of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this traffic code shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates his, her, or their written promise to
appear given to an officer upon an arrest for any traffic violation is guilty
of a misdemeanor, regardless of the disposition of the charge on which he, she,
or they was originally arrested.
      (2)   Any driver of a motor vehicle who wilfully neglects to answer to
the charge set forth in the notice affixed to such motor vehicle by a police
officer as provided by an ordinance of the village, is guilty of the charge for
which the notice was originally issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING AND STOPPING
Section
   
71.01   Places designated
   
71.02   Other prohibited locations
   
71.03   Parking time period designated
   
71.04   Authority to tow cars
   
71.05   Contract with property owners; private property
   
71.06   Curb parking
   
71.07   Vehicles parked on public streets
   
71.08   Truck parking
   
71.09   Obstructing traffic
   
71.10   All night parking
   
71.11   Loading zone
   
71.12   Parallel and angle parking
   
71.13   Prohibited purposes; advertising prohibited
   
71.14   Posting signs
   
71.15   Owner responsible for illegal parking
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PLACES DESIGNATED.
   At any time, it is unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 20 feet if a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign on the approaching
side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance of any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly signposted;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway; or
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OTHER PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Narrow streets. When signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow
streets, no person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
   (B)   Near hazardous or congested places. When signs are erected upon the
approach to hazardous or congested places, no person shall stop, stand, or park
a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
   (C)   Adjacent to schools. Parking is prohibited on the north and south
sides of West Main Street from the crosswalk located at the southeast corner of
the Grand Ridge Grade School in a westerly direction to Bloomington Road from
7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
(Ord. passed 3-14-1952; Ord. 2023-07, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING TIME PERIOD DESIGNATED.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle of whatsoever nature or trailer of
whatsoever nature, on any street, alley or other public space for a period of
more than 48 consecutive hours.
(Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 AUTHORITY TO TOW CARS.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic
duty, are authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by a
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked on any public street or
in any other public place for a period of 48 consecutive hours.
   (B)   The owner of any vehicle towed shall pay all costs of the towing and
storage and the village shall have the right to withhold possession from the
owner until the owner has paid the towing costs in full as well as the storage
costs.
(Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 CONTRACT WITH PROPERTY OWNERS; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
   (B)   The village shall have the authority to enter into contracts with
property owners regulating parking on the property.
(Ord. passed - -1976; Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 CURB PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it is unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curbline.
(Prior Code, § 6-34-030) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 VEHICLES PARKED ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any automobile dealer or any other person, firm, or
corporation to park or stand any automobile or other motor vehicle held for
sale or otherwise upon any street in the village or upon any property of the
village for the purpose of storing the vehicle or for the purpose of displaying
the vehicle for sale.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park any automobile or other vehicle upon any
business street of the village from which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Prior Code, § 6-34-040) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TRUCK PARKING.
   It is unlawful to leave any truck with an empty weight over two and one-half
tons, semi-tractor or trailer, boat trailer, commercial vehicle or any
passenger vehicle having a seating capacity for more than nine passengers or
any other motor vehicle exceeding 31 feet in overall length to be parked upon
any public street or alley in the village for more than 120 consecutive
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 6-34-050) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street or alley
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten
feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary, in obedience to traffic regulations, traffic
signs, or a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such
a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   (C)   No commercial vehicle shall stop, stand or park upon any street or
alley for a longer time than 90 minutes at any time of any day or night.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. passed 3-14-1952; Ord. passed - -1976) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.10 ALL NIGHT PARKING.
   When signs are erected on any street, no person shall park a vehicle on that
street for a period of time longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day, except physicians on emergency calls, or
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, in
any place designated by the President and Board of Trustees as a loading zone
and marked as such or in any of the following places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   (B)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except on Sunday; or
   (C)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except as provided in the following.
   (A)   Upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles
shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
   (B)   In places where and at hours when stopping for the loading or
unloading of merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the
transportation of merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take on or
discharge loads when the owner of such vehicle holds a permit granting him,
her, or them such privilege, and such permit shall be either in the possession
of the driver or in the vehicle at the time such vehicle is backed against the
curb to take or discharge a load, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or
driver to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such special
permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) (Ord. passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 PROHIBITED PURPOSES; ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. No person shall stand or park
a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage; or
      (4)   Peddling merchandise on a business street.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11)
   (B)   Using vehicle for advertising prohibited. No person shall operate or
park on any street any vehicle for the primary purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12)
(Ord. passed 2-14-1952; Ord. passed 3-14-1952; Ord. passed - -1976) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.14 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the President and
Board of Trustees shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) (Ord. passed - -1976)
§ 71.15 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR ILLEGAL PARKING.
   No person shall allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in his, her,
or their name to stand or be parked in any street in the village in violation
of any of the provisions of this village code regulating the standing or
parking of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. passed 3-14-1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day that an offense occurs shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed - -1976; Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 72: NON-HIGHWAY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Non-Highway Vehicle Use Regulations
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation on village streets
   
72.03   Prohibited operation
   
72.04   Required equipment
   
72.05   Registration
   
72.06   Revocation of permit
   
72.07   Appeal of revocation
   
72.08   Reinstatement of permit
   
72.09   Vehicle Code application
   
72.10   Speed limit
   
72.11   Mandatory insurance
   
72.12   Operation limited to licensed drivers
   
72.13   Hours of operation
   
72.14   Lights
   
72.15   Registration sticker
   
72.16   Inspection
   
72.17   Exemption for governmental entity
Toy Vehicles
   
72.30   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
72.31   Riding on handlebars
   
72.32   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices
   
72.33   Lamps on bicycles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE REGULATIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed to travel
primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a manufacturer’s dry
weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more non-highway tires,
designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and steering wheel, except
equipment such as lawnmowers.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on
a public highway, limited to the following:
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle, as defined above;
      (2)   A golf cart, as defined above; and
      (3)   A recreational off-highway vehicle, as defined below.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed
to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel,
except equipment such as lawnmowers.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An aggregation of attractions consisting of, but not limited
to, shows, acts, games, vending devices, amusement rides, parades, sales, and/
or food or drink services temporarily set up or conducted in a location
accessible to the public for the purpose of entertainment or amusement and
authorized by the Board of Trustees of the village.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021)
§ 72.02 OPERATION ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   Subject to the requirements of § 11-1426.1 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625
ILCS 5/11-1426.1), hereby adopted by the village, drivers properly licensed to
operate motor vehicles are authorized to operate non-highway vehicles on the
streets of the village having a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less. A non-
highway vehicle shall be permitted to make a direct crossing of a state highway
only at an intersection controlled by a traffic light or four-way stop sign
where the state highway has a speed limit of 25 mph or less at the place of
crossing.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   No non-highway vehicles shall be operated in or on the grounds of any
village park or recreational area.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   To be operated in the village street during a special event, a non-
highway vehicle shall have the following equipment, in good working condition,
at all times:
      (1)   Brakes;
      (2)   Steering wheel;
      (3)   Four tires, except for all-terrain vehicles which may have three or
four tires;
      (4)   Rearview mirror;
      (5)   Red, reflectorized warning devices on the front and rear;
      (6)   Slow moving emblem as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-709 attached to the
rear;
      (7)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front;
      (8)   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear;
      (9)   Brake lights; and
      (10)   Turn signals.
   (B)   Non-highway vehicles not equipped with head lamps and tail lamps shall
not be permitted on village streets between one-half hour before sunset and
one-half hour after sunrise.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Annual registration. 
      (1)   No non-highway vehicle shall be operated on a village street unless
the owner(s) has been issued a permit by the village.
      (2)   A person desiring an annual permit must be a village resident or
own property within the village and shall apply to the Chief of Police, or the
Police Chief’s designee, on forms provided by the village and shall provide
proof of liability insurance for the non-highway vehicle, a photograph of the
non-highway vehicle that is the subject of the application, and sign a
liability waiver.
      (3)   The applicant shall present the non-highway vehicle to the Chief of
Police, or the Police Chief’s designee, for an inspection to determine whether
the non-highway vehicle may be operated on a village street and shall pay a fee
as assessed by the Board of Trustees to the Village Clerk.
      (4)   If the applicant and non-highway vehicle are qualified, a permit
shall be issued to the applicant.
      (5)   The permit shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance and must be in the driver’s possession while operating the non-highway
vehicle in the village.
   (B)   Special event registration. 
      (1)   A non-highway vehicle not issued an annual permit may apply for a
special event permit and a non-highway vehicle may be operated on a village
street if the owner(s) or operator has been issued a special event permit by
the village.
      (2)   A person desiring a special event permit shall apply to the Chief
of Police, or the Chief’s designee, on forms provided by the village and shall
provide proof of liability insurance for the non-highway vehicle or complete an
affidavit concerning insurance coverage, and sign a liability waiver.
      (3)   The applicant shall present the non-highway vehicle to the Chief of
Police, or the Chief’s designee, for an inspection to determine whether the
non-highway vehicle may be operated on a village street and shall pay a fee as
assessed by the Board of Trustees per special event to the village.
      (4)   If the applicant and non-highway vehicle are qualified, a special
event permit shall be issued to the applicant.
      (5)   The special event permit shall be valid for a specified period and
must be in the driver’s possession while operating the non- highway vehicle in
the village.
      (6)   A registration/inspection sticker issued by the village must be
affixed to the rear of a non-highway vehicle at all times while operating on
village streets during the special event.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 72.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s
designee, if:
      (1)   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on
the application;
      (2)   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
      (3)   There is evidence that the permit holder can no longer safely
operate the non-highway vehicle on village streets; or
      (4)   The permit holder fails to comply with the terms of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or the Police Chief’s designee, shall issue a
notice of revocation of a permit in writing and either hand deliver the notice
to the permit holder or send the notice by certified mail to the permit holder
at the address on the application.
   (C)   Revocation of the permit shall be effective immediately after personal
service or on the third day after the postmark of the certified mail receipt.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021)
§ 72.07 APPEAL OF REVOCATION.
   (A)   Revocations may be appealed in writing to the village’s Board of
Trustees 14 days from the issuance of the notice of revocation.
   (B)   The Village Board shall hold a public hearing at which the affected
permit holder may appear, present witnesses and evidence and be represented by
an attorney.
   (C)   The Village Board shall uphold the revocation if it determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the violation which was the basis for the
revocation occurred.
   (D)   During the appeal process, the revocation shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021)
§ 72.08 REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT.
   In the event a registration is revoked due to a failure to maintain the
required liability insurance or a failure to maintain the condition of the non-
highway vehicle in compliance with this subchapter, the Chief of Police, or the
Police Chief’s designee, in his, her, or their discretion, may reinstate the
permit upon documentation of reinstatement of the required insurance or of the
repair or modification of the non-highway vehicle necessary to cure any
deficiencies with respect to required equipment.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021)
§ 72.09 VEHICLE CODE APPLICATION.
   Non-highway vehicles shall be operated at all times in accordance with the
provisions of the state’s Vehicle Code, the rules of the road contained
therein, and any other laws, regulations or ordinances governing the operation
of motor vehicles in the village.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 SPEED LIMIT.
   No non-highway vehicle shall be operated on a village street in excess of 20
mph.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 MANDATORY INSURANCE.
   No person shall operate, and no owner(s) shall permit another person to
operate, a non-highway vehicle on a village street unless the non- highway
vehicle is covered by a liability insurance policy as required by § 7-601 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-601). The operator of the non-highway
vehicle shall carry proof of liability insurance at all times, as required by §
7-602 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-602), unless the non-highway
vehicle is operated pursuant to an issued special event permit only.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 OPERATION LIMITED TO LICENSED DRIVERS.
   No person may operate a non-highway vehicle on a village street without a
valid driver’s license issued by the state’s Secretary of State or by a foreign
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Non-highway vehicles issued an annual permit may be operated on the
village streets from 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Non-highway vehicles issued a special event permit may be operated on
the village streets during hours designated on the special event permit issued.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 LIGHTS.
   When operated on a village street, the non-highway vehicle equipped with a
headlight and tail lamps must have its headlight and tail lamps lighted at all
times.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 REGISTRATION STICKER.
   A valid, current registration/inspection sticker issued by the village must
be affixed to the rear of a non-highway vehicle at all times while operating on
village streets.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 INSPECTION.
   All non-highway vehicles permitted in accordance with this subchapter shall
be subject to inspection by the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designees, to
determine that they continue to meet the requirements set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 EXEMPTION FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY.
   This subchapter does not apply to non-highway vehicles owned and/or operated
by a governmental entity.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021)
TOY VEHICLES
§ 72.30 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller
skates, or any toy vehicle, shall not attach the same or himself, herself, or
themself to any streetcar or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.31 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS.
   The operator of a motor cycle or bicycle when upon a street, shall not carry
any other person upon the handlebar, frame, or tank of any such vehicle nor
shall any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play streets when
and as authorized by ordinance of this village.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.33 LAMPS ON BICYCLES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and with a
lamp at the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; except that a red reflector may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-29) (Ord. passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.17 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750 and shall be pay all court assessments and costs.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic signals
   
73.02   Right-of-way at crosswalks
   
73.03   Crossing other than at crosswalks
   
73.04   Use right half of crosswalk
   
73.05   Soliciting rides
§ 73.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
heretofore declared in this chapter, but at all other places, pedestrians shall
be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions as
hereinafter stated.
(Prior Code; § 6-4-1)
§ 73.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Where traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be, to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk of an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code; § 6-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CROSSING OTHER THAN AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code; § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of the
crosswalk.
(Prior Code; § 6-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 SOLICITING RIDES.
   No person shall stand in the roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Prior Code; § 6-4-5) (Ord. passed 3-14-1952) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through streets
      
II.   Load limits
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Toy vehicle restrictions
      
V.   Compression release brakes
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by
ordinance as through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The
driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to the through street and shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or
which are approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a
traffic-control signal.
   (B)   The following streets are hereby designated as through streets:
Street Length
Street                 Length
Burlington Avenue      From West Main Street to Parkway
East Washington Street From Burlington Avenue east
                       From east village limits to Burlington Avenue as to
Main Street            westbound vehicle traffic, from Burlington Avenue to
                       Bloomington Road for westbound vehicle traffic
Parkway                From Burlington Avenue west
Porter Avenue          From East Main Street to East Washington Street
Poundstone Avenue      From East Main Street to East Washington Street
Railroad Avenue        From East Main Street to East Washington Street
Sylvan Avenue          From West Main Street to Parkway
West Main Street       From Sylvan Avenue to the east village limits as to
                       eastbound motor traffic
 
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. passed - -1976)
SCHEDULE II. LOAD LIMITS.
   The use of those streets and alleys on which appropriate signs have been
placed by the village prohibiting the operation of trucks or other commercial
vehicles, or imposing limitations as to the weight thereof, is restricted as
designated by the signs, and no vehicle shall be driven on any such street or
alley in violation of the prohibition or limitation indicated by the signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a greater speed than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   Where no special hazard exists, the following speeds shall be lawful,
but any speed in excess of said limits shall be prima facie evidence that the
speed is not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful.
 
Speed  Location                  Length
20 mph In any business district
25 mph In any residence district
20 mph On Main Street            From State Route 23 to Sylvan Street on school
                                 days when children are present
 
   (C)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing prima
facie limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or
other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (D)   In every charge of violation of this schedule, the complaint, also the
summons or notice to appear, shall specify the speed at which the defendant is
alleged to have driven, also the prima facie speed applicable within the
district or at the location.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions of this schedule shall not be construed to
relieve the plaintiff in any civil action from the burden of proving negligence
upon the part of the defendant as the proximate cause of an accident.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-17) (Ord. passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. TOY VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride any skateboard or
roller blades on any sidewalk of the following areas within the village:
 
Street           Location             Penalty
West Main Street Within the 100 block Fine of not less than $75 nor more than
                                      $150 for each offense
 
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. COMPRESSION RELEASE BRAKES.
   The following areas are designated as no compression release engine brakes
(sometimes referred to as “Jake Brakes”) and/or down-shifting areas and signs
shall be posted designating said areas as such:
 
Street                         Direction of Traffic
County Highway 6 (Main Street) Eastbound and westbound
Illinois Route 23              Northbound and southbound
 
(Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the following streets at
any time after snow has accumulated to a depth of two inches or more until snow
removal operations have been completed on any of the following streets:
 
Street           Length
Parkway Street   From Burlington Avenue to Route 23
Sylvan Street    From Parkway Street to Main Street
West Main Street To Route 23
                 The 100 block
 
   (B)   All members of the Police Department are authorized to remove and tow
away or have removed and towed away by commercial towing service, any car or
other vehicles which violate or fail to comply with §
71.01. Cars or vehicles so towed away shall be stored on village property or in
a public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof, after payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and
storing such cars or vehicles. In addition to the towing charges to be paid by
the owner or operator, there shall be a penalty of $75 for violation of §
71.01 and a separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The village shall install appropriate signs advising that parking is
prohibited as set forth in §
71.01 and further advising that the route is a tow away zone
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 2-18-2003; Ord. 2009-02, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2014-4,
passed 9-16-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED, WRECKED, AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   PARKS AND CEMETERIES
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Noisy animals; restrictions
   
90.02   Prohibited animals
   
90.03   Authority to kill animals
   
90.04   Diseased animals
Dogs, Generally
   
90.20   Muzzles
   
90.21   Running at-large
   
90.22   Dog waste
   
90.23   Dog warden
   
90.24   Impoundment and redemption
   
90.25   License required
   
90.26   License fees
Dangerous and Vicious Dogs
   
90.35   Purpose
   
90.36   Definitions
   
90.37   Regulation of dangerous dogs
   
90.38   Regulation of vicious dogs
   
90.39   Appeal
   
90.40   Fighting prohibited
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 NOISY ANIMALS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by loud
noises at any time of the day or night.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to keep any cattle, horses, ponies, swine, sheep, goats,
poultry, or bees in the village.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 AUTHORITY TO KILL ANIMALS.
   The members of the Police Department or any other person in the village are
authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when it is necessary for
the protection of any cause or property.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 90.04 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall
be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place whereby the
health of humans or beast may be affected, nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except under the
supervision of the Health Officer or of the State Veterinarian. No such
diseased animals shall be brought into the village.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS, GENERALLY
§ 90.20 MUZZLES.
   Whenever the Mayor by proclamation declares that danger from rabies is
great, it is unlawful to permit any dog to go upon any public street, alley, or
sidewalk or other public place unless such dog is securely muzzled.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dog or cat to run at-large in the village. Any
dog or cat so running at-large, constitutes a nuisance and shall be impounded
or destroyed as provided in §
90.23.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any dog or cat owned or
harbored by said person or by any member of said person’s family, to run at-
large in the village.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to permit any dog or cat
owned or harbored by a person or by any member of such person’s family to be on
any street, alley, or sidewalk or other public place without being held
securely on a leash by such person.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 DOG WASTE.
   It is unlawful for the owner or possessor of any dog to fail to remove
immediately any feces deposited by the dog on public or private property not
owned by the owner or possessor of the dog.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 DOG WARDEN.
   (A)   There is established, the office of dog warden for the village, which
shall be an acting police officer of the village and shall be in addition to
his, her, or their existing duties. He, she, or they shall receive such
remuneration for the performance of his, her, or their duties as shall be fixed
by the Board.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the dog warden to enforce the provisions of
this chapter by capturing and impounding any such dogs so running at-large, by
destroying any such dogs which appear to be so vicious as to be dangerous to
capture or which appear to be afflicted with rabies, and by serving warrants
for violations of this chapter on the owners or persons harboring such dogs if
the same cannot be captured and impounded.
   (C)   For such purposes, the dog warden shall have police powers. He, she,
or they shall have the authority to enter upon private property for the purpose
of capturing such dogs so running at-large.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 90.24 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Dogs which are impounded under the provisions of this chapter, shall
be humanely treated and fed. They shall be held for at least seven days. If not
called for by their owners within that time, they shall be destroyed with as
little suffering as possible.
   (B)   Any dog so impounded, may be redeemed by the owner upon payment of all
costs associated with the impoundment.
   (C)   If the owner of such dog is known to the dog warden as such or if such
dog has attached to its collar any identification showing the name of the
owner, such owner shall be notified as soon as possible of the impounding
thereof; provided, that it shall not be necessary for the dog warden to make
any inquiry to ascertain such ownership.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 90.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No dog shall be permitted to be or remain in the village without being
licensed as hereinafter provided.
§ 90.26 LICENSE FEES.
   All dogs kept in the village shall be registered as to sex and breed of the
dog and name and address of the owner. Each owner shall obtain a license for
said dog and shall pay a fee of $5 for each dog. It shall be the duty of said
owner to cause such license tag to be securely attached around the dog’s neck
and kept there at all times during the license period which shall be from
January 1 through December 31. Lost tags must be replaced at the cost of $1.
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.35 PURPOSE.
   The Village Board wishes to adopt regulations governing the keeping and
licensing of dogs to protect against the potential threat of attack or damage
by dangerous or vicious dogs and to provide for the protection of the dogs
themselves.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 90.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person approved by the County Board or the state
to perform duties to effectuate the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   BITE. To seize or cut with the teeth or jaws.
   CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE. A securely locked pen, kennel, or structure designed
and constructed for the keeping of a vicious dog and shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained in accordance with the standards set out in this
subchapter. Such pen, kennel, or structure must be at least six feet in height
and have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All STRUCTURES
used to confine registered vicious dogs must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such STRUCTURE
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the structure or
the sides of the structure must be embedded in the ground no less than two
feet. All structures erected to house vicious dogs must comply with all zoning
and building regulations of the village. All such STRUCTURES must be adequately
lighted, ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition. All such
STRUCTURES must be closer to the principal structure or residence than to the
rear yard property line as measured from the nearest parts of each, or at least
ten feet from rear and side yard property lines. If the enclosure is a room
within a residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the
outdoors unless it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be
locked.
   DANGEROUS DOG. 
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious physical injury.
   FIGHT. A prearranged conflict between two or more animals but does not
include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
   INVESTIGATING OFFICER. An animal control officer, or his, her, or their
supervisor or designee, or a law enforcement officer.
   K-9 PATROL DOG or POLICE DOG. A dog used by law enforcement officers for law
enforcement purposes and activities.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such dog
under control.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal to prevent a
dog from biting any person or animal. The MUZZLE must be made in a manner which
will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration.
   NIP. To pinch or squeeze with teeth or jaws without breaking of skin or
tissue.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or
harbors a dog, or who has it in his, her, or their care, or acts as its
custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on any premises occupied by
him, her, or them.
   RUNNING AT-LARGE. The failure to confine a vicious dog as required by this
subchapter or the unrestrained freedom of a dog in or upon any of the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks, school grounds, or other public grounds within the
village’s corporate limits, even when such dog is in the company of the owner
or other person but is not attached to a leash or other restraining device.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person or other
domestic animal and causes serious physical injury or death or any individual
dog that has been found to be a “dangerous dog” upon three separate occasions.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 90.37 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Investigation. If an investigating officer learns about a dog’s
behavior that has made a reasonable person believe that the dog posed a serious
and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death to a person
or a companion animal, or if a dog has bitten a person or other domestic animal
without justification, the investigating officer must conduct an investigation
and determine, in writing, whether that dog should be declared “dangerous.”
   (B)   “Dangerous dog” determination.
      (1)   An investigating officer must conduct an investigation and make a
written finding that the dog is a “dangerous dog” as defined by this
subchapter. The investigation shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Sending notice to the dog’s owner within ten business days that
an investigation has been initiated and affording the owner an opportunity to
meet with the investigating officer prior to the making of a determination;
         (b)   Gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence;
         (c)   Interviewing witnesses; and
         (d)   Making a written report.
      (2)   A dog shall not be declared dangerous if an investigating officer
determines the conduct of the dog was justified because:
         (a)   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was
committing a crime or offense upon the owner of the dog or was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property occupied by the
owner of the dog;
         (b)   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring;
         (c)   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was
attacking or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
         (d)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
      (3)   The statement of a certified applied behaviorist, a board-certified
veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to the
determination of whether the dog’s behavior was justified pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
      (4)   No dog shall be deemed “dangerous” if it is a professionally
trained dog for law enforcement or guard duties or if it is a guide dog for the
blind or hearing impaired or a support dog for the physically handicapped,
provided an attack or injury to a person or other domestic animal occurs while
the dog is performing duties as expected.
      (5)   No dog shall be deemed a “dangerous dog” unless shown to be a
“dangerous dog” by a preponderance of evidence.
      (6)   An investigating officer shall provide notice of his, her, or their
determination that a dog is dangerous by causing such notice to be sent
immediately to the dog’s owner by personal service or by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested. The delivery of the notice shall be
deemed to be sufficiently given on the date it is delivered in person or three
calendar days after being deposited for delivery in the United States mail with
proper postage prepaid. If the dog is determined to be a “dangerous dog,”
notice of the owner’s right to appeal the determination shall be delivered to
the owner together with the notification that the dog is a “dangerous dog.”
   (C)   Owner’s obligations. After a dog has been determined to be dangerous,
the owner may be instructed to comply with any or all of the following
requirements.
      (1)   No dangerous dog shall be permitted to leave the premises of its
owner when not under control by a leash no longer than four feet or by another
recognized control method.
      (2)   An investigating officer shall order the dog to be spayed or
neutered and microchipped, if not already, within 14 calendar days of delivery
of the written report to the owner. The owner shall be responsible for all
costs associated with spaying or neutering and microchipping.
      (3)   An investigating officer may order the dog to be evaluated by a
certified applied behaviorist, a board-certified veterinary behaviorist or
another recognized expert and to complete a training program. The owner of the
dangerous dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with evaluations
and training.
      (4)   An investigating officer may order direct supervision of the
dangerous dog by an adult 18 years of age or older whenever the dog is on
public premises.
      (5)   An investigating officer may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled
whenever it is on public premises.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 REGULATION OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Investigation. The investigating officer must conduct an investigation
and determine, in writing, whether that dog should be declared “vicious” if an
investigating officer learns that a dog has:
      (1)   Attacked a person or other domestic animal without justification
and has caused serious physical injury or death;
      (2)   Demonstrated a propensity to attack people or other domestic
animals without provocation;
      (3)   Posed a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal upon three separate
occasions; or
      (4)   Bitten and/or nipped a person or other domestic animal without
justification upon three separate occasions.
   (B)   “Vicious dog” determination.
      (1)   An investigating officer must conduct an investigation and make a
written finding that the dog is a “vicious dog” as defined by this subchapter.
The investigation shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Sending notice to the dog’s owner within ten business days that
an investigation has been initiated and affording the owner an opportunity to
meet with the investigating officer prior to the making of a determination;
         (b)   Gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence;
         (c)   Interviewing witnesses; and
         (d)   Making a written report.
      (2)   A dog shall not be declared vicious if an investigating officer
determines the conduct of the dog was justified because:
         (a)   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at
the time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner of the dog or was
committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
occupied by the owner of the dog;
         (b)   The threatened, injured, or killed person was abusing,
assaulting, or physically threatening the dog or its offspring or has in the
past abused, assaulted, or physically threatened the dog or its offspring;
         (c)   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was
attacking or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
         (d)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
      (3)   The statement of a certified applied behaviorist, a board-certified
veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to the
determination of whether the dog’s behavior was justified pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
      (4)   No dog shall be deemed a “vicious dog” unless shown to be a vicious
dog by clear and convincing evidence. No dog shall be declared vicious based
solely on its breed.
      (5)   An investigating officer shall provide notice of his, her, or their
determination that a dog is vicious by causing such notice to be sent
immediately to the dog’s owner by personal service or by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested. The delivery of the notice shall be
deemed to be sufficiently given on the date it is delivered in person or three
calendar days after being deposited for delivery in the United States mail with
proper postage prepaid. If the dog is determined to be a “vicious dog,” notice
of the owner’s right to appeal the determination shall be delivered to the
owner together with the notification that the dog is a “vicious dog.”
   (C)   Owner’s obligations. After a dog has been determined to be vicious,
the owner shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Confinement.
         (a)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch,
patio, or in any part of a residence or structure that would allow the vicious
dog to exit the residence or structure on its own volition. No vicious dog
shall be kept in a residence or structure when the windows are open or when
screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacles preventing the vicious
dog from exiting the residence or structure.
         (b)   Confinement in an exterior yard. No person shall confine a
vicious dog in an exterior area unless such dog is confined in a confinement
structure constructed and maintained as set forth in this subchapter.
         (c)   Confinement on a leash. No person shall permit a vicious dog to
go outside a confinement structure, residence, or other structure unless the
vicious dog is securely restrained with a leash no longer than four feet in
length and with a muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to be kept on a
leash unless a person is in physical control of the leash. No leash restraining
any vicious dog shall be attached to any inanimate object including, but not
limited to, trees, posts, stakes, and buildings.
         (d)   Exceptions. A vicious dog may be allowed out of confinement
when:
            1.   It is necessary for the owner to obtain veterinary care for
the vicious dog;
            2.   In the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the
dog’s life is threatened; or
            3.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not
exceeding four feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog or muzzled in its residence.
      (2)   Spaying/neutering. If a dog is deemed to be “vicious,” the
investigating officer shall order the dog to be spayed or neutered and
microchipped, if not already, within ten calendar days. The dog’s owner shall
be responsible for all costs associated with spaying or neutering and
microchipping.
      (3)   Signage. The owner of a vicious dog shall display in a prominent
place on the premises where the dog is to be kept a sign which is readable by
the public from a distance of not less than 100 feet using the words “Beware of
Dog-Vicious Dog.” A similar sign shall be posted on any confinement structure.
      (4)   License.
         (a)   Application. After a dog has been declared vicious, within 48
hours of delivery of such notice, the owner or custodian shall file an
application for a license to possess a vicious dog with the Village Clerk on a
form prescribed and provided by the village. The application for such license
shall be accompanied by all of the following:
            1.   Verification of the owner’s identity and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner’s driver’s license or state
identification card;
            2.   Proof of ownership or custody of the vicious dog;
            3.   A copy of the current immunization and health record of the
vicious dog prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the state;
            4.   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount
not less than $100,000 providing coverage for any injury, damage, or loss
caused by the vicious dog;
            5.   Two photographs of the vicious dog to be licensed taken not
less than one month before the date of the application. One photograph shall
provide a front view of the vicious dog and one photograph shall show a side
view of the vicious dog; and
            6.   An annual license fee as assessed by the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Investigation of premises. Upon receipt of an application, the
Village Clerk shall forward such application to the Police Department which
shall cause an inspection of the premises on which the vicious dog shall be
kept to determine that all provisions of this subchapter relating to keeping of
a vicious dog have been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of the
inspection, the Police Department shall notify the Village Clerk in writing of
the results of its inspection and recommendation as to whether the application
should be approved or denied. The failure of an applicant to comply with a
police officer’s request to conduct an investigation of the premises shall be
grounds for the rejection of an application.
         (c)   Approval or denial of application. Upon receipt of the results
of the Police Department inspection, the Village Clerk shall notify the
applicant of the approval or denial of the license application. In the event
that the license application is denied, the notification shall be provided in
writing and the reasons for such denial shall be stated. Upon approval of the
license application, the Village Clerk shall issue a license to the applicant.
         (d)   Reporting requirements of a licensee. Any person holding a
license pursuant to this section shall report the incidence of any of the
following events to the village’s Police Department or Village Clerk:
            1.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift, or death of any vicious dog,
within 48 hours of such event;
            2.   The escape from confinement or theft of any vicious dog,
immediately upon discovery of the escape or theft;
            3.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a vicious
dog, immediately upon discovery of the occurrence;
            4.   The birth of any offspring of a vicious dog, within 48 hours
of the birth of the offspring; and
            5.   The permanent removal of any vicious dog from the corporate
limits of the municipality, within 48 hours of such removal by surrender of the
license to the Village Clerk.
         (e)   Renewal of license. The owner shall submit a written application
on an annual basis and comply with all requirements set forth in this section,
including an inspection of the premises and payment of an annual license fee.
         (f)   Revocation of license. In addition to any other penalty
provisions of this subchapter, a license granted pursuant to this section shall
be automatically revoked upon any violation by the licensee of any provision of
this section.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 90.39 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a determination under this subchapter that a
dog is a “dangerous dog” or “vicious dog” shall have to file a complaint
against the village in the Circuit Court of the county within 21 calendar days
of receipt of notification of the determination, for a de novo hearing on the
determination.
   (B)   The proceeding shall be conducted as a civil hearing in accordance
with the state’s Rules of Evidence and the Code of Civil Procedure, being 735
ILCS 5/1-101, including the discovery provisions.
   (C)   After hearing both parties’ evidence, the court may make a
determination of “dangerous dog” if the village meets its burden of proof by a
preponderance of the evidence or the court may make a determination of “vicious
dog” if the village meets its burden of proof by clear and convincing evidence.
   (D)   The final order of the circuit court may be appealed pursuant to the
civil appeals provisions of the state’s Supreme Court Rules.
   (E)   In the event that a civil suit to appeal the determination of an
investigating officer is not taken within 21 calendar days, the owner shall be
deemed to have acquiesced in the finding or decision and the matter shall be
deemed concluded.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 90.40 FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight or bait, or keep, train, or
transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting, any dog.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.04 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, not less than $75 nor more than $750;
      (2)   For the second offense, not less than $125 nor more than $750; and
      (3)   For the third or subsequent offense, not less than $150 nor more
than $750.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.22, shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.24, shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, not less than $75 nor more than $750;
      (2)   For the second offense, not less than $150 nor more than $750; and
      (3)   For the third or subsequent offense, not less than $250 nor more
than $750, and the violator’s dog shall be impounded for a period of time not
to exceed 30 days and the person shall pay all costs of the impoundment prior
to the release of the dog.
   (D)   If an owner fails to comply with the requirements of §
90.37, a law enforcement officer shall impound the dog and the owner shall pay
a $500 fine plus impoundment fees to the animal control agency impounding the
dog. A dog found to be a dangerous dog shall not be released to the owner until
the owner pays all fines and fees and complies with the requirements of this
section, including but not limited to proper leash length, spaying or
neutering, and microchipping. An owner of a dangerous dog which has caused an
injury to a person resulting in the impoundment of the dog shall be entitled to
redeem the dog in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/13, as amended.
   (E) If an owner fails to comply with the requirements of §
90.38, a law enforcement officer shall impound the dog and the owner shall pay
a $500 fine plus impoundment fees to the animal control agency impounding the
dog. A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner until
the owner pays all fines and fees and complies with the license and confinement
structure requirements of this section. An owner of a vicious dog which has
caused an injury to a person resulting in the impoundment of the dog shall be
entitled to redeem the dog in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/13, as amended.
   (F)   Upon conviction of a violation of §§
90.35 through
90.40, the court shall assess a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $750
for each day that a violation occurs. In addition, the court may assess court
costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the village against any person in
violation of §§
90.35 through
90.40.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2010-05, passed 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Drinking cups   
   
91.02   Spitting   
   
91.03   Sewage; unlawful acts   
   
91.04   Abandoned refrigerators   
   
91.05   Pollution of watercourses   
   
91.06   Pools as nuisances   
Contagious Diseases
   
91.20   Report required   
   
91.21   Quarantine   
   
91.22   Fumigation   
   
91.23   Spreading contagion unlawful   
   
91.24   Deliveries to quarantine premises   
Refuse and Pollution
   
91.50   Disposal regulations   
   
91.51   Combustible refuse   
   
91.52   Burning refuse and garbage, zone restrictions   
   
91.53   Windblown refuse   
   
91.99   Penalty   
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DRINKING CUPS.
   It is unlawful to maintain any common drinking cup or cups, dipper, or other
similar utensil for the use of more than one person in any public hall,
theater, store or other place frequented by the public.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 SPITTING.
   It is unlawful to spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk or street or
other public place or an the floor or walls of any store, theater, hall, public
vehicle, or other place frequented by the public or to which the public is
invited.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SEWAGE; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain, permit, cause, create, or
contribute to in any way an open drain, sewer or cesspool, and it is also
unlawful for any person to permit, create, cause, or contribute to any
unsightly, nauseous, or unhealthful condition by failing to dispose properly of
sewage or refuse, both within the limits of the village and at any point within
one mile of the village limits.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place accessible
to children, any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of one and
one-half cubic feet or more which has an attached lid or door which may be
opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or for the manager,
owner or lessee of such premises to knowingly permit such refrigerator, ice
chest, or icebox to remain in such condition.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 POLLUTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   It is unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 POOLS AS NUISANCES.
   Any stagnant pool of water or swimming pool in disrepair in the village is a
nuisance. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit any
such nuisance to remain or exist on any property under his, her, their, or its
control.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 91.20 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every physician called in to care for or treat a person afflicted with a
contagious disease or an epidemic disease shall make a report of the same
within 24 hours after being called in, to the county’s Health Department. In
case no physician is in attendance, it shall be the duty of the person in
charge of or having the care of such person to make a report within 24 hours
from the time the disease is recognized.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 QUARANTINE.
   The county’s Health Department shall have charge of the enforcement of the
reasonable quarantine rules. They shall have the power and the authority to
place any premises within which a contagious or epidemic disease occurs under
quarantine, and the health office shall determine the time when the quarantine
ends.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 FUMIGATION.
   Premises which have been quarantined in accordance with the terms of §
91.21 shall be thoroughly fumigated or otherwise freed from all risk of
contagious disease under the supervision of the county’s Health Department
before the quarantine shall end.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 SPREADING CONTAGION UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to spread, willfully or carelessly, any
contagious disease or to so cause the spread of the same.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 DELIVERIES TO QUARANTINE PREMISES.
   (A)   No person engaged in the delivery of food or drink intended for human
consumption shall enter any premises which are quarantined because of the
existence of a contagious or epidemic disease.
   (B)   No containers or bottles shall be removed from any such premises until
the termination of the quarantine, and no such container which has been left at
such premises during the quarantine shall be placed in use for carrying food or
drink until it has been thoroughly sterilized.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
REFUSE AND POLLUTION
§ 91.50 DISPOSAL REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit anywhere in
the village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal, or carcasses of dead
animals. Any uncovered pile of refuse is a nuisance.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way
as to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind in any
alley, street, or other public way in the village.
   (B)   It is unlawful to dump, leave, or deposit any refuse anywhere in the
village, with or without the consent of the owner of the premises, which is or
may be thrown about by the wind, which consists of garbage or any vegetable
matter subject to decay, or which consists of flammable material so as to form
a fire hazard, and it is unlawful to leave or deposit or abandon any cases,
cartons, car bodies, or similar articles anywhere in the village.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 BURNING REFUSE AND GARBAGE, ZONE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to burn any garbage, refuse, or other material outside of any
building at any time in the village.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 WINDBLOWN REFUSE.
   It is unlawful to deposit or leave any refuse or material in such a place or
condition that it can be blown by the wind so as to be scattered or cause
clouds of dust or particles, and it is unlawful to permit the escape of soot,
ashes, or other solid products or results of combustion so as to be windblown
or scattered.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
91.03 shall be fined not less than $150 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during
or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
91.04 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during or on
which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
91.05 or
91.06 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during or on
which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.24 or violating any of the reasonable rules of the county’s Health
Department with regard to quarantined premises or disturbing or disregarding
any notice of quarantine placed by or under the direction of the Health
Department shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
which or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
91.50 through
91.53 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed each and every day during or
on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisances unlawful   
   
92.02   Nuisances defined; recurring offenses   
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting health   
   
92.04   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency   
   
92.05   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety   
   
92.06   Abatement; costs   
Plants and Weeds
   
92.20   Weeds and grass   
   
92.21   Noxious weeds to be destroyed   
   
92.22   Removal of yard waste   
   
92.23   Recurring offense   
   
92.24   Notice   
   
92.25   Cutting authorized   
   
92.26   Lien for removal costs   
   
92.27   Suit for enforcement   
   
92.99   Penalty   
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
create, erect, maintain, or permit to exist a nuisance within the village.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 NUISANCES DEFINED; RECURRING OFFENSES.
   (A)   Generally. A public nuisance is a thing, act, occupation, condition,
or use of property which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way.
   (B)   Recurring offense. A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to
continue.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but shall not be construed
to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition of §
92.01(A):
   (A)   All decaying, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drinks
sold or offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Carcasses of animals, birds, or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Accumulation of decaying animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, abandoned machinery, scrap metal or
any material in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats, or
other vermin may breed; or which may constitute a fire hazard;
   (D)   All stagnate water in which mosquitoes, flies, or other insects can
multiply;
   (E)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gasses, fly
ash, or industrial dust within the village limits in such quantities as to
endanger the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or threaten or cause a
substantial injury to property;
   (F)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (G)   Any use of property, substances, or things within the village emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable
odors, effluvia, or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, cause discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the
health of persons within the village;
   (H)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from use;
   (I)   Any obstruction in or across any water course, drainage ditch or
ravine;
   (J)   Any open burning contrary to the regulations of the state’s Pollution
Control Board or other village ordinances or codes;
   (K)   The deposit of garbage, rubbish, or any offensive substance on any
street, sidewalk, or public place, or on any private property, except as may be
permitted by ordinance; and
   (L)   Any noxious weeds on private property as defined by the state compiled
statutes.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but such enumerations shall not be construed to exclude other
nuisances offending public morals and decency coming within the definition of §
92.01(A):
   (A)   All disorderly houses, houses of ill fame, gambling houses and
building or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of prostitution or
gambling. Activity lawfully conducted under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/
1 et seq., is not prohibited; and
   (B)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages are
sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured, or rectified without a
permit or license as provided by village ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby
declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such
enumerations shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public
peace or safety coming within the definition of §
92.01(A):
   (A)   All buildings erected, repaired, or altered in violation of the
provisions of the ordinances of the village relating to materials and manner of
construction of buildings and structures;
   (B)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or devices which purport to
be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or maintained
upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossings;
   (C)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys, or highways from obtaining
a clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian
crosswalk;
   (D)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than
eight feet above the surface thereof or less than ten feet above the surface of
a public street;
   (E)   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of the
state and ordinances of the village;
   (F)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated, or out of repair as
to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human use;
   (G)   All wires over streets, alleys, or public grounds which are strung
less than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground;
   (H)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind;
   (I)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the
village or which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept or
maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
   (J)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations, or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley, or sidewalk;
   (K)   All abandoned refrigerators, freezers, ice boxes, washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers, or similar appliances;
   (L)   Any advertisements or signs affixed to any building, wall, fence,
sidewalk, street, or other private or public property without permission of the
owner thereof;
   (M)   Any sign, marquee, or awning which is in an unsafe condition, or which
overhangs any roadway or which overhangs any sidewalk with less than eight feet
above the sidewalk surface;
   (N)   Any condition or practice constituting a fire hazard; and
   (O)   Any nuisance so defined by the state’s Compiled Statutes.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT; COSTS.
   (A)   Abatement of public nuisances.
      (1)   Inspection of premises. Whenever a complaint is made to the Police,
Fire, Health, or Building Officers or Inspectors that a public nuisance exists
within the village, the appropriate village official shall inspect or cause to
be inspected the premises.
      (2)   Notice to abate; summary abatement.
         (a)   Notice to abate. If the appropriate village official determines
that a public nuisance exists on private property, the official or his, her, or
their designee shall give the owner or occupant of the premises on which the
nuisance exists or the individual responsible for the nuisance a written notice
directing the recipient to abate or remove such notice within 72 hours.
         (b)   Abatement by village. If the nuisance is not abated within the
time provided or if the owner or occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot
be located, the appropriate village official or his, her, or their designee may
cause the abatement or removal of such public nuisance at the cost of such
removal or abatement to the owner or occupant or such person causing the
nuisance.
      (3)   Abatement by court action. If the village official shall determine
that a public nuisance exists on private premises but the nature of such
nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger to the public
health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the village official shall cause an
action to abate such nuisance to be filed in the appropriate Circuit Court of
the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit.
   (B)   Cost of abatement. In addition to the penalty imposed by this chapter
for the election, contrivance, creation, continuance, or maintenance of a
public nuisance, the cost of abating a public nuisance by the village shall be
collected as a debt from the owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting, or
maintaining the nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 92.20 WEEDS AND GRASS.
   (A)   All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds
or plant growth in excess of six inches in height. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants, and vegetation,
other than trees or shrubs; provided however, this term shall not include
cultivated flowers and gardens.
   (C)   The terms TREES and SHRUBS shall not include trees and shrubs that
were self-starting resulting from lax property maintenance, typically called
“volunteer” growth.
   (D)   Cultivated flowers within the public right-of-way shall not obstruct
the view of vehicle or pedestrian traffic, and after the first frost of the
season, perennial and annual flower debris and growth shall be removed from the
right-of-way.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 NOXIOUS WEEDS TO BE DESTROYED.
   No poison ivy or other poisonous vine or plant, ragweed, thistles, or other
noxious weeds shall be permitted to grow on any premises in the village, and
they may be destroyed by the village at the expense of the owners of any
premises in the village where they are found to be growing.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 REMOVAL OF YARD WASTE.
   Grass clippings, weeds, bushes, hedges, tree branches, and other natural
yard wastes must be collected and properly disposed of within two weeks.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 RECURRING OFFENSE.
   A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each and
every day during or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 92.24 NOTICE.
   (A)   When a village official determines that there has been a violation of
this chapter or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, the
appropriate village official may cause a written notice to be given to the
property owner.
   (B)   The notice shall include:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A statement of the violation or violations;
      (3)   A correction order allowing the property owner three days to comply
with this chapter; and
      (4)   A statement advising of the consequences of not complying with the
notice.
   (C)   Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is
delivered personally; or sent by first-class mail addressed to the last known
address. If notice is sent by first-class mail, it shall be deemed delivered
four days after mailing.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 92.25 CUTTING AUTHORIZED.
   Weeds and grass grown to a height in excess of six inches may be cut by the
village if the owners of the premises refuse or neglect to cut them, the
reasonable cost of cutting the weeds to be collected from the owners.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 LIEN FOR REMOVAL COSTS.
   The reasonable cost of cutting weeds or grass where they exceed six inches
in height shall be a lien upon the real estate, provided a notice of lien is
filed within 60 days in the office of the county’s Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 92.27 SUIT FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The village may bring suit at any time to collect the expense of destroying
noxious weeds, or the reasonable cost of cutting weeds or grass where they
exceed six inches in height, from the owners of the real estate where such
weeds or grass shall have been allowed to grow.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate §§
92.01 through
92.06 upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $
100 nor more than $750 for each such offense. If court action is necessary, the
violator shall pay the village’s attorney fees and court costs, if found
guilty.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §§
92.20 through
92.27 upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a penalty of not less than
$100 nor more than $750 for each such offense and, if the village incurred
costs to bring property into compliance with this chapter, the violator shall
be liable for all such costs. If court action is necessary, the violator shall
pay the village’s attorney fees and court costs, if found guilty.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED, WRECKED, AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions   
   
93.02   Inoperable, unlicensed, unregistered, and/or abandoned vehicles
declared nuisance   
   
93.03   Storage of unlicensed/unregistered vehicles   
   
93.04   Duty to dispose   
   
93.05   Notice   
   
93.06   Hearing   
   
93.07   Notify village   
   
93.08   Towing abandoned vehicles   
   
93.09   Towing from private property   
   
93.10   Record of vehicles towed   
   
93.11   Unknown owner   
   
93.12   State record search   
   
93.13   Reclamation of vehicle   
   
93.14   Public auction, sale of abandoned vehicles   
   
93.15   Sale without notice, exception   
   
93.16   Report disposal of vehicle   
   
93.17   Disposition of funds   
   
93.18   Nonliability for damages   
   
93.99   Penalty   
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted
(625 ILCS 5/1-101.05).
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley, or public way within the village.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which for a period of at
least 14 days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power.
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a vehicle or in the event a vehicle
is the subject of an agreement for conditional sale or lease thereof with the
right of purchase upon the performance of the conditions stated in the
agreement and with the immediate right of possession vested in the conditional
vendee or lessee or in the event a mortgagor of such vehicle is entitled to
possession then such conditional vendee, lessee, or mortgagor shall be deemed
the OWNER for the purposes of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is privately
owned and which
is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or
facility.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway whether subject to or exempt
from registration including trailers but excepting, however, bicycles,
snowmobiles, and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
also includes every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as
a means of transportation on water, except a seaplane on the water, air
mattress, or similar device.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.02 INOPERABLE, UNLICENSED, UNREGISTERED, AND/OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   Inoperable, unlicensed, and/or unregistered and/or abandoned vehicles
are hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle which is kept within a building when not in use;
      (2)   An operable antique vehicle over 25 years of age;
      (3)   A motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles, or on the premises of a place of
business engaged in the sale of new or used automobiles; or
      (4)   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
repair operations for a period of not more than 14 days from the date said
vehicle became operable.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.03 STORAGE OF UNLICENSED/UNREGISTERED VEHICLES.
   No person shall accumulate, store, or allow any unlicensed or unregistered
vehicle in the open upon any public or private property within the village for
a period exceeding seven days.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DUTY TO DISPOSE.
   Any person not exempted under §
93.02(B) shall dispose of any inoperable, unlicensed, and/or unregistered and/
or abandoned vehicle owned by him, her, or them or under his, her, or their
control or located upon property owned or occupied by him, her, or them upon
written notice received from the Village Clerk or Police Department commanding
the disposition of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 NOTICE.
   (A)   If the inoperable, unlicensed, and/or unregistered and/or abandoned
vehicle displays license or registration plates or decals from which the last
known owner may be determined in a reasonably expeditious manner, notice as set
forth herein shall be sent to the last registered owner of such vehicle and to
the owner or occupant of the property upon which such vehicle is located.
   (B)   (1)   All notices provided by this section shall be sent by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid.
      (2)   Notice to one owner of said vehicle or one owner or occupant of
said property shall be considered notice to all owners or occupants.
      (3)   Refusal to accept delivery of said notice shall be deemed
acceptance for purposes of this section.
      (4)   The date of notice for purposes of this section shall be the day
after the date said notice was deposited with the U.S. Postal Service.
      (5)   In the alternative, notice provided herein may be personally served
by a village police officer or village official upon said owner or an occupant
of the same household above the age of 14 years old, in which case the date of
notice shall be the date of said personal service.
   (C)   Such notice by the village to remove said inoperable, unlicensed, and/
or unregistered and/or abandoned vehicle shall be substantially in the form set
forth below:
 
NOTICE TO REMOVE VEHICLE
TO:   NAME: ________________ DATE: ____________________
RESS: _________________________________________________
A vehicle described as:
   TYPE:    _______________________________________   
   MAKE: _______________________________________   
   YEAR: _______________________________________   
   COLOR: _______________________________________    
with registration plates number __________________ is registered in the name(s)
of _______________________ ___________________________ with the state of
_________________. This vehicle is located at
_____________________________________________ outside of an enclosed building
and is deemed to be an inoperable, unlicensed and/or unregistered and/or
abandoned vehicle under an ordinance of the village. You are hereby notified
that such vehicle must be removed, disposed of, or placed in an enclosed
building within seven days after the date of this notice as indicated above.
You may request a hearing on the matter of whether the above described vehicle
is an inoperable, unlicensed and/or unregistered and/or abandoned vehicle in
violation of the ordinance by submitting a written request for such a hearing
to the Village Clerk of the village addressed as set forth below, within seven
days of the date of this notice. In the event that you submit such a request
for a hearing, a hearing date will be set and you will be advised of the time,
date, and place of such hearing at least three days in advance of the date of
such hearing. Pursuant to the ordinance, you may request an extension period at
any such hearing. The Village Board shall, upon good cause being shown, grant
an extension of not more than 30 days if the owner of the vehicle or the owner
or occupant of the property upon which such vehicle is located submits to the
Village Board an affidavit that the vehicle is being held for sale or
expeditious repair as defined by §
93.02(B) or
93.06(B) of the code of ordinances. To request a hearing, hand deliver or mail
by certified mail, return receipt requested, a request for such a hearing in
writing to the village, 130 W. Main Street, Grand Ridge, Illinois 61325. If you
fail to request a hearing within seven days of the date of this notice, and you
do not remove, dispose of, or place the vehicle in an enclosed building within
the specified period, or within any extension granted by the Village Board
after a hearing, such vehicle is subject to being towed and impounded and you
may be charged with a violation of the ordinance and subject to a fine of not
more than $750 for such violation. In addition, the costs of towing and storage
will be assessed against you.
 
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.06 HEARING.
   (A)   The person or persons, or the designated agent thereof, to whom the
notice as specified by this chapter is directed, shall have the right to a
hearing before the Village Board on the matter of whether the vehicle cited in
such notice is an inoperable, unlicensed, and/or unregistered, and/or abandoned
vehicle in violation of this chapter. To obtain such a hearing, any such person
must first submit a written request for such a hearing by hand delivery or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the Village of Grand
Ridge, 130 W. Main Street, Grand Ridge, Illinois 61325 within seven days of the
date of any such notice. In the event that a hearing is so requested, the
Village Clerk shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, set a time, date, and
place for the hearing before the Village Board and shall cause the person or
persons so requesting the hearing to be provided with written notice of the
time, date and place for the hearing at least three days in advance of the date
thereof. All enforcement of this chapter shall be stayed pending said hearing
and determination by the Village Board.
   (B)   The owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant of the property
where the vehicle is located may apply for an extension of time by making a
written request for a hearing as provided in division (A) above. Upon receipt
of any such application for an extension of time, the Village Board shall, upon
good cause being shown, grant an extension of not more than thirty days, if
such person submits to the Village Board an affidavit that the vehicle is being
held for sale or expeditious repair. As used in this section, EXPEDITIOUS
REPAIR shall mean:
      (1)   The necessary parts for repair have been ordered but are not
available for installation in the vehicle for reasons not within the control of
the owner of said vehicle;
      (2)   The vehicle is scheduled to be repaired by a person whose regular
course of business includes the repair of vehicles and the scheduled repair
date is within 30 days; or
      (3)   The vehicle is in such condition of being inoperable as a result of
a vehicular accident, and the owner of such inoperable vehicle or any third
party to whom or from whom a claim for damages sustained in such accident is
anticipated is investigating or preparing a claim for such damages, but in no
event shall any such extension period exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.07 NOTIFY VILLAGE.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
Village President when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
village.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notification, the Village President or his, her,
or their designee shall authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle.
   (C)   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents
and maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or
any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 TOWING ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
village ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by
order of the Village President or village’s Police Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the Village President or the
village’s Police Department.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Village President or village’s Police Department,
the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 TOWING FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   In the event the notice provided for in §
93.05 is not complied with, and except as provided in division (B) below, the
village shall obtain a warrant and shall cause the towing or removal of the
motor vehicle from private property.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a request for hearing before the Village Board was
properly made and the Village Board determined by majority vote that the said
vehicle is an inoperable and/or unlicensed and/or unregistered and/or abandoned
motor vehicle for purposes of this chapter, then the Village Board shall set a
reasonable date by which said vehicle shall be disposed of or enclosed within a
building.
      (2)   Said date shall be no less than seven days after the date of
hearing.
      (3)   In the event said vehicle is not disposed of or enclosed within a
building by the said date set by the Village Board, then the village shall
obtain a warrant and shall cause the towing or removal of the vehicle without
further, prior notice thereof.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of said vehicle to
deliver a written notice to the Village Clerk and to provide documentation and/
or demonstration of operability or that the motor vehicle has properly licensed
and/or registered if said vehicle has been put into operable and/or licensed
and/or registered condition prior to towing or removal of said vehicle.
      (5)   In the event no such written notice is received by the Village
Clerk prior to towing or removal, it shall be presumed that said vehicle
remains inoperable, and/or unlicensed, and/or unregistered, and/or abandoned
and may be towed or removed in accordance herewith.
   (C)   Whenever a vehicle is towed or removed by a towing service pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, the owner of the vehicle and the owner or
occupant of the property upon which such inoperable motor vehicle is located
shall be jointly and severally responsible for all towing and storage charges
unless otherwise determined by the Village Board pursuant to hearing as
provided in §
93.06.
   (D)   Within 48 hours of the removal of such vehicle, the Village Clerk or
village’s Police Department shall send notice to the registered owner of the
vehicle and lien holder, if known, and also to the owner or occupant of the
private property from which the vehicle was removed that said vehicle(s), has
been impounded and stored for violation of this chapter. The notice shall give
the location of where the vehicle(s) is towed and the costs incurred by the
village for removal.
   (E)   Any vehicle towed or removed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be stored and claimed or disposed of in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the state’s Vehicle Code, as amended, entitled
“Abandoned Lost, Stolen or Unclaimed Vehicles.”
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 RECORD OF VEHICLES TOWED.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing
the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s name, manufacturer’s series
name, body style, vehicle identification number, and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing, and the
name of the village official authorizing the tow.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.11 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Village Clerk or the village’s Police Department shall notify
the State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information
obtained by the State Police will be immediately forwarded to the village
official having custody of the vehicle for notification of owner.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.12 STATE RECORD SEARCH.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk or other village officials do not know the
identity of the registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will
cause the motor vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a
directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
   (B)   The village may cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the State
Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.13 RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the village proof of
ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall
be released to the owner or other person under this section until all towing
and storage charges have been paid.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.14 PUBLIC AUCTION, SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever an inoperable, unlicensed, unregistered or abandoned, lost,
stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle, seven years of age or
newer, remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession for a period of 30 days after notice has been given
as provided herein, the Village Clerk or the village’s Police Department having
possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to the
highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Village Clerk shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent
by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the Village
Clerk or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Village Clerk due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of the state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.15 SALE WITHOUT NOTICE, EXCEPTION.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an inoperable, unlicensed, unregistered, or
abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be
determined by any means provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold
as provided herein or disposed of in the manner authorized by this chapter
without notice to the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   When an inoperable, unlicensed, unregistered, or abandoned vehicle of
more than seven years of age is impounded as specified by this chapter, it will
be kept in custody for a minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining
ownership; the contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public
service or in person for a determination of disposition; and, an examination of
the State Police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
At the expiration of the ten day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, the Village President or
village’s Police Department will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk
only.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.16 REPORT DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the village is
reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Village Clerk
for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.17 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is
authorized to be towed away by the Village President and disposed of as set
forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after
the deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges, shall be deposited in
the Municipal Treasury.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.18 NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any village official, police officer, attorney, towing service owner,
operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in
any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his,
her, or their legal representative, or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed
and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $200 nor more than $750. If court action is
necessary, the violator shall pay the village’s attorney fees and court costs,
if found guilty.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-17-2018)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Open burning
   
94.02   Construction; fire safety
Explosives and Fireworks
   
94.15   License required   
   
94.16   License; application and fee   
   
94.17   Compliance with building ordinances   
   
94.18   Requirements for handlers   
   
94.19   Storage; labels and packing   
   
94.20   Blasting; restrictions and notice required   
   
94.21   Secondary shots; requirements   
   
94.22   Enforcement   
   
94.23   Fireworks; definition and regulations   
Flammable Liquid Storage
   
94.35   Storage regulations   
   
94.36   Storage in residential areas; permits required   
   
94.37   Permit; application and fee   
   
94.38   Installation of tanks; minimum distances to property lines   
   
94.39   Liquified petroleum gas   
   
94.40   Compliance   
   
94.41   Inspections and enforcement   
   
94.42   Odorizing to indicate presence of gas   
   
94.43   Containers   
   
94.44   Equipment; permit and installation   
   
94.45   Production; license and application   
   
94.46   Storage; license and application   
   
94.47   N.B.F.U. pamphlet; copies   
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   The open burning of wet or green leaves, green leaves or grass, wet
cardboard or paper, garbage, refuse, waste, rubber, plastics, tires, leather,
tar paper, old batteries, construction debris, furniture, or any material which
emits an offensive odor or smoke when burned on any property, public or
private, from any source whatsoever, within the village is unlawful and is
hereby prohibited except as provided for in this section.
   (B)   The following types of open burning are permitted:
      (1)   Fires set and supervised or authorized by a representative of the
village, or a department thereof, for the disposal of diseased trees; or public
safety; said fires not being allowed on any village streets;
      (2)   Fires in outdoor fireplaces or burners when cooking food;
      (3)   Fires during the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. made up of limited
amounts of yard waste, twigs, leaves provided:
         (a)   The material is dry;
         (b)   The fire does not create an offensive odor, nuisance, or fire
hazard; and
         (c)   The fire is attended to at all times.
      (4)   Recreational fires on residential properties contained in fire
pits, fire rings, or fire tables which do not create offensive odors, smoke,
and/or fire hazards and are attended to at all times.
   (C)   The permitted fires set forth in division (B) above may be prohibited
in the event the Village President issues a “no burn” order.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2020-08, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2020-11,
passed 12-15-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 CONSTRUCTION; FIRE SAFETY.
   In the interest of public health, safety, and welfare, the standards as set
forth in the National Fire Protection Association’s Standard No. 101, “the Life
Safety Code” as now existing or hereafter amended are adopted by reference and
said code shall be part of this chapter as though set out herein with the same
full force and effect as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
§ 94.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to engage in blasting operations or in any other activity in
which explosives are used or to store or keep in the village any black powder
in excess of five pounds, gun cotton in excess of five pounds, giant powder in
excess of five pounds, dynamite in excess of 25 pounds, nitroglycerine,
fulminate of mercury, or any other explosive or substance, compound, mixture,
or article having properties of such character that alone or in combination or
contiguity with other substances or compounds may decompose suddenly and
generate sufficient heath, gas, or pressure to produce rapid flaming combustion
or administer a destructive blow to persons or property, without having secured
a license therefor and complied fully with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 LICENSE; APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Applicants for such license shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall conform to the provisions of the ordinances of the village
relative to license applications. Each application shall set forth the location
at which such explosives are to be in bulk, barrels, cannister, cartridges, or
other manner, and the maximum amount to be kept on hand at any one time.
   (B)   The annual fee for such license shall be as assessed by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 94.17 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING ORDINANCES.
   No such explosives shall be stored in any building other than a fireproof
building in full compliance with the building ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 REQUIREMENTS FOR HANDLERS.
   (A)   No such license shall be issued unless the licensee files with the
Village Clerk, the name of the person or persons designated by him, her, or
them to handle such explosives or to have charge of magazines.
   (B)   No person shall be so designated unless he, she, or they is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Able to understand, read, and write the English language;
      (3)   Of temperate habits;
      (4)   Familiar with the laws and provisions of the ordinances governing
the storage and use of explosives; and
      (5)   Capable of performing the duties incident to his, her, or their
work without unnecessary hazard to himself, herself, themself or others.
   (C)   A certificate of fitness shall be issued to any qualified person so
designated by the licensee or applicant for a license, and it is unlawful to
engage in any of the activities described in §
94.16 unless each person so designated in accordance with this section has
first received a certificate of fitness from the Clerk.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 STORAGE; LABELS AND PACKING.
   (A)   No explosive shall be stored anywhere in the village unless such
explosive is properly labeled and packaged. All boxes or containers in which
explosives containing nitroclycerine are packaged must be lined with suitable
material that is impervious to liquid nitroglycerine. No explosive shall be
kept or stored in the village unless it is packed in the manner prescribed by
the regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission for packing of such
explosives for shipment on common carriers.
   (B)   No unpackaged or loose dynamite, not in cartridges, shall be stored or
kept in the village unless the nitroglycerine content of such dynamite is less
than 10% by weight.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 BLASTING; RESTRICTIONS AND NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Blasting; restrictions. It is unlawful to set off or discharge more
than 750 pounds of 60% dynamite, or any charge containing or releasing a
disruptive force greater than 750 pounds of 60% dynamite in any one blasting
operation.
   (B)   Blasting; notice required. It is unlawful to set off or detonate any
primary blast or to load, pack or place the explosive for any such blast unless
notice thereof has been given 24 hours before such packing, to the Chief of
Police. Such notice shall describe the location of the proposed blast, the
time, and the amount and kind of explosives to be used.
   (C)   Inspection. The Chief of Police or any other person designated for the
purpose by the Mayor, shall inspect the location, hole, and explosives used for
any such primary blast to determine that the ordinance pertaining thereto is
complied with.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 SECONDARY SHOTS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Secondary shots may be fired in accordance with good practice, provided
adequate protection is taken to prevent flying debris. No abode-capped or mud-
capped shots shall be used.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the county’s Fire Marshal, Chief of Police, and any
other person designated by the Mayor, to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 94.23 FIREWORKS; DEFINITION AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definition. FIREWORKS, as described in this section, includes smoke
bombs or devices.
   (B)   Regulations; permit required. 
      (1)   It is unlawful to store, discharge or set off any fireworks or give
any pyrotechnic displays in the village except as provided in division (B)(2)
below.
      (2)   No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be given
unless a permit is first obtained from the Village Council. All such public
displays shall be under the supervision of a competent person and shall be
supervised by a fire marshal or some other member of the Fire Department
assigned to this duty.
   (C)   Selling fireworks. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to sell, offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of selling, any fireworks in
the village at any time.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
FLAMMABLE LIQUID STORAGE
§ 94.35 STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, all petroleum products and other similar
combustible materials kept or stored in the village shall be kept or stored in
accordance with all rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the
applicable sections of the state’s compiled statutes.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 STORAGE IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to install any tank or tanks for the storage of
petroleum products or other similar combustible or explosive materials upon a
lot or plot of ground within any residential area of the village without having
first secured a permit for such installation from the Village Council.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOT OR PLOT OF GROUND. A ground area which complements and is devoted to
a particular use of property; the boundaries of such LOT OR PLOT OF GROUND
shall be construed to be coextensive with the boundaries of the ground area
which complements and is devoted to such particular use or property.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. An area where the property adjacent to the lot or plot
of ground upon which such petroleum products are sought to be stored for a
distance of 300 feet in all directions is, in the main, improved with buildings
used for residence purposes.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 PERMIT; APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Application. Application for the permit required by §
94.36 shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be accompanied by two copies
of drawings or blueprints and shall contain all of the information applicable
to the proposed installation which is required by the department of public
safety and the state’s EPA, under its rules for the approval of plans. Two
copies of the plan as submitted to the department of public safety and the
state’s EPA and certified thereto as being such copies, shall be sufficient
compliance with this section.
   (B)   Permit; fee. The fee for a permit to install any such tank or tanks
shall be as assessed by the Board of Trustees and shall be paid to the Village
Clerk at the time of filing an application for permit.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 94.38 INSTALLATION OF TANKS; MINIMUM DISTANCES TO PROPERTY LINES.
   It is unlawful to install any tank or tanks for the storage of petroleum
products or other similar combustible or explosive materials closer than the
following minimum distances to the property lines of the lot or plot of ground
upon which such tank or tanks are to be installed:
   (A)   Tank capacity of 2,000 gallons or less: minimum distance, 50 feet;
   (B)   Tank capacity of 6,000 gallons but more than 2,000 gallons: minimum
distance, 100 feet; and
   (C)   Tank capacity of 20,000 gallons but more than 6,000 gallons: minimum
distance, 500 feet; provided, that this section shall not apply to the storage
of fuel oil tanks connected to a heating system located upon the lot or plot of
ground nor to tanks for receiving crank case drainings.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.39 LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS. Any material composed predominantly of any of the
following hydrocarbons or mixtures of them: propane, propylene, butane (normal
butane or isotane) and butylene.
   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS EQUIPMENT. All containers, apparatus, piping (not
including utility distribution piping systems), and equipment pertinent to the
storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gas. Gas-consuming appliances shall
not be considered as being LIQUEFIED GAS EQUIPMENT.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 94.40 COMPLIANCE.
   It is unlawful to produce, store, or use any liquefied petroleum gas or to
install or maintain any equipment for such production or use, unless such
production, storage and utilization equipment is constructed and maintained in
compliance with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.41 INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector or such other officer or
employee as may be designated by the Mayor, to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and to make such inspections or tests as may be necessary in connection
therein. Whenever a test is necessary to determine whether any equipment or
method complies with the standards prescribed or referred to in this chapter,
the enforcing official may accept the results of a test conducted by or under
the supervision of the Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 94.42 ODORIZING TO INDICATE PRESENCE OF GAS.
   All liquefied petroleum gas used or stored in the village shall be
effectively odorized by an agent of such character as to indicate by a
distinctive odor, the presence of gas in the air down to a concentration of
one-fifth the lower limit of combustibility.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.43 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All containers used for liquefied petroleum gases shall be constructed
according to the standards prescribed therefor in the “Standards of the
National Board of Fire Underwriters for the Storage of Liquefied Petroleum
Gases” with amendments as published in pamphlet form by the National Board of
Fire Underwriters, hereinafter referred to as N.B.F.U.
   (B)   The maximum filling density (the percent ratio of the weight of gas in
a container to the weight of water which the container will hold at 60°F, shall
be that prescribed by N.B.F.U.
   (C)   No such container for use in connection with any building shall be
located between the building and the street upon which the building abuts, nor
within such building. The installation of such containers and location with
reference to the buildings shall be in accordance with the standards prescribed
by the N.B.F.U.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.44 EQUIPMENT; PERMIT AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   No equipment for the utilization of liquefied petroleum gas shall be
installed in the village unless a permit therefore has first been secured. When
such installation is in a building being newly constructed or remodeled in
accordance with a permit for such construction or remodeling, no extra fee for
such permit shall be required. In other cases, applications for such permits
shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall contain a description of the
location, equipment and intended use of such equipment. The fee for such
permits shall be as assessed by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No such equipment shall be installed or used unless it complies with
the standards therefore established by the N.B.F.U.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 94.45 PRODUCTION; LICENSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate a plant for the production of liquefied
petroleum gases, or for filling containers with such gases, in the village
without first having secured a license therefor.
   (B) Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall conform to the general provisions of the ordinances relating to
business licenses. The annual fee for such license shall be as assessed by the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   No such license shall be issued unless the premises and equipment
thereon to be used in such activity are in full compliance with the standards
prescribed by the N.B.F.U. and it is unlawful to conduct or operate such
activity unless all buildings and equipment used in connection therewith comply
with the standards prescribed by the N.B.F.U.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 94.46 STORAGE; LICENSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful to engage in the business of storing liquefied
petroleum gases in the village without first having secured a license therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall conform to the general provisions of the ordinances relating to
business licenses. The annual fee for such license shall be as assessed by the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   No such license shall be issued unless the premises and equipment
thereon to be used in such activity are in full compliance with the standards
prescribed by the N.B.F.U. and it is unlawful to conduct or operate such
activity unless all buildings and equipment used in connection therewith,
comply with the standards prescribed by the N.B.F.U.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 94.47 N.B.F.U. PAMPHLET; COPIES.
   The Village Clerk shall obtain when deemed necessary, copies of the N.B.F.U.
regulations referred to in this chapter for inspection and distribution without
charge to any interested persons as soon as practicable.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
94.01 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750, plus court costs,
for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
94.15 through
94.22 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
94.23 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
94.35 through
94.38 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
94.39 through
94.47 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2020-08, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2020-11,
passed 12-15-2020)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND CEMETERIES
Section
Village Parks
   
95.01   Curfew
   
95.02   Animal regulations
   
95.03   Game and sport regulations   
   
95.04   Use of firearms and fireworks   
   
95.05   Throwing stones unlawful   
   
95.06   Vehicles   
   
95.07   Speed limit   
   
95.08   Hindering village employees   
   
95.09   Offering articles for sale; permit required   
   
95.10   Public event; permit required   
   
95.11   Entering restricted areas   
   
95.12   Obstructing travel   
   
95.13   Fires prohibited; exceptions   
   
95.14   Intoxicating liquor regulations   
   
95.15   Dumping articles   
   
95.16   Advertisement regulations   
   
95.17   Fortune telling and gambling   
   
95.18   Protection of birds and animals   
   
95.19   Bringing plants, shrubs, or trees   
   
95.20   Damage to park property   
Cemeteries
   
95.35   Cemetery regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
VILLAGE PARKS
§ 95.01 CURFEW.
   No person shall utilize any of the facilities of the village parks, or park
any motor vehicle in any of the village parks, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall lead or allow to be loose upon park premises, any animal of
whatsoever nature.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 GAME AND SPORT REGULATIONS.
   No person shall engage in any game, sport, or amusement at any place in the
village parks not designated as a portion of the park for such game, sport, or
amusement, so as to in any way endanger the life, person, or property of any
other person or persons utilizing the facilities of such park, or so as to in
any way limit or hinder the lawful use of such parks by any other person or
persons.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 USE OF FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS.
   No person shall carry or discharge firearms, or discharge or set off any
rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib, or other fireworks or things containing any
substance of an explosive nature in the village parks.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 THROWING STONES UNLAWFUL.
   No personal shall throw or cast any stones or other missiles within any of
the village parks.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 VEHICLES.
   No person shall bring or use any vehicle upon any portion of the village
parks where such vehicles are prohibited from being brought or used.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall drive or otherwise propel any automobile, truck, motor bike,
scooter, or other vehicle at any place in the village parks at a speed greater
than 15 mph.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 HINDERING VILLAGE EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall interfere with or in any manner hinder any employee of the
village while engaged in constructing, repairing, or caring for any park
property.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 OFFERING ARTICLES FOR SALE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall offer or exchange for sale, any article or thing or do any
hawking, peddling, or soliciting, or buy or offer to buy any article or thing,
or take up any collection or solicit or receive contributions of money or
anything of value in the village parks, except when authorized to do so by
permit from or contract with the village.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 PUBLIC EVENT; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall call or hold any public meeting or give any concert or
public entertainment of any kind in the village parks without a permit.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 ENTERING RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall enter upon any portion of the village parks where persons
are prohibited from going as indicated by sign or notice.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 OBSTRUCTING TRAVEL.
   No person shall set or place or cause to be set or placed, any goods, wares,
or merchandise or property of any kind so as to obstruct travel in the village
parks.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall light or make use of any fire in the village parks except
such portions thereof as may be designated for such purpose and then only under
such regulations as are prescribed.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 INTOXICATING LIQUOR REGULATIONS.
   No intoxicated person shall enter, be or remain in the village parks, nor
shall any person bring within, sell, give away, or drink any intoxicating
liquors in the village parks without obtaining a permit from the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.15 DUMPING ARTICLES.
   No person shall deposit, dump, throw, or place any coal, ashes, dust,
manure, or rubbish in or upon any part of the village parks; paper, garbage, or
refuse matter shall not be so deposited except in receptacles provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 ADVERTISEMENT REGULATIONS.
   No person shall display any placard or advertisement of any kind in the
village parks, nor shall any person distribute, cast, throw, or place any
handbills, pamphlets, circular, advertisement, or notice of any kind, nor post,
stencil, or otherwise affix any notice, or bills, advertisement, or other
papers upon any structure or thing in or about the park premises.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 FORTUNE TELLING AND GAMBLING.
   No person shall tell fortunes, play at games of chance, or use any gambling
device in the village parks.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 PROTECTION OF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.
   No person shall trap, catch, wound or kill, or treat cruelly, or attempt to
trap, catch, wound, or kill any bird or animal, or molest or rob any nest of
any bird or animal in the village parks.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 BRINGING PLANTS, SHRUBS, OR TREES.
   No person shall bring into or upon the village parks, any tree, shrub or
plant or any newly plucked branch or portion of a tree, shrub, or plant.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall cut, break, climb on, or in any way injure or deface any
tree, shrub, plant, turf, or any of the buildings, fences, bridges, lamps, or
posts or other structure or property within the village parks.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
CEMETERIES
§ 95.35 CEMETERY REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to establish a cemetery
or to bury any person within the village limits, or within a mile thereof,
except in an established cemetery.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any clause or provision of §§
95.01 through
95.20 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense upon
conviction thereof.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
95.35 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Declaration of policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace, and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical
or mental handicap to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, village living
quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed, or physical or mental handicap in the conditions, terms, privileges of
the sale, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or
in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations, and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 12-20-2005) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL GRAND RIDGE LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease, or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of such
person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise obtaining or making available funds
for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his, her, or their property because of any
present or prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the
neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap; and
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 12-20-2005) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each day
a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall
in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically enforce,
by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 12-20-2005)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   SPECIAL SALES; PERSONAL SALES
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
114.   MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
      
115.   FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
116.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
117.   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Licensing Provisions
   
110.01   Application
   
110.02   Issuance
   
110.03   License period; nontransferable
   
110.04   Revocation
Municipal Occupation Taxes
   
110.15   Retailers’ occupation tax
   
110.16   Service occupation tax
   
110.17   Municipal use tax
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons desiring a license from the village shall pay the
amount required for such license together with his, her, or their written
application and bond, where bond is required, shall be filed in the office of
the Village Clerk. Such application shall be personally signed by the person or
persons desiring such license and shall state the purpose and time for which
such license is desired, and the place where the business for which the license
is sought is to be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 110.02 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of such application, payment and bond, where a bond is
required, the Village Clerk shall issue a license if all license requirements
are fulfilled, which shall contain the name or names of the person or persons
to whom granted, the kind of business authorized, the date of the expiration
thereof, and, where it is a local business, the street and number of the place
where such business is to be carried on.
   (B)   The license shall be signed by the President, countersigned by the
Clerk and attested by the Corporate Seal. All such licenses shall expressly
state that they are issued subject to all ordinances then in force or which may
thereafter be passed.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 110.03 LICENSE PERIOD; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   No license shall granted for a longer period than one year, nor be
transferable without the express consent of the Board of Trustees, nor shall it
authorize any person other than the one named therein to conduct the business
therein specified, nor shall it authorize the carrying on of business at any
place except as therein specified, and when bond is required by ordinance the
same shall be subject to the approval of the Village Clerk, except as otherwise
especially provided by ordinance.
   (B)   Every licensee shall, upon demand, exhibit his, her, or their license
to any village officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
§ 110.04 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Every license shall be issued and held subject to all the ordinances
and police regulations then existing or afterward adopted, and subject to
revocation at the discretion of the Board of Trustees at any time on refunding
the pro rata share of the license fee for the unexpired term of such license.
   (B)   On conviction of any licensee of a breach of any ordinance of the
village regulating the business therein licensed, the Board of Trustees may
declare such license forfeited without the repayment of any part of the license
fee.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -)
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.15 RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in the village at the rate of 1%
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the Retailers’ Occupation Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS 120.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
reports to the state’s Department of Revenue as required by § 3 of “An Act in
Relation to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible
Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption,” approved June 28,
1933, as amended and being 35 ILCS 120/3, the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state’s
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   (D)   Exclusion a-1 contained in § 2 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax
approved June 28, 1933, as amended, and being 35 ILCS 120/2, shall not apply to
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. passed 9-2-1980)
§ 110.16 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts received by such a serviceman transferring tangible personal property,
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, being 5 ILCS 115.
   (B)   Every supplier or serviceperson required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file the
report to the state’s Department of Revenue required by § 9 of the Service
Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115/9.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state’s
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (D)   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in § 3-5(7) of
the Service Occupation Tax Act approved July 10, 1961, as amended and being 35
ILCS 115/3-5(7), shall not apply to all persons engaged in the business of
making sale of service within the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2) (Ord. 67-6, passed 9-5-1967; Ord. passed 11-1-1974; Ord.
passed 9-2-1980)
§ 110.17 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-
6 of the state’s Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6, upon the privilege of
using in the municipality any item of tangible personal property which is
purchased outside the state at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or
registered with an agency of the state government. The tax shall be at a rate
of 1% of the selling price of such tangible property with selling price to have
the meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955, and being 35
ILCS 105/1 et seq.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the state’s Department of Revenue and
shall be paid before the title or certificate of registration for the personal
property is issued.
   (C)   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in § 3-5(11) of
the Use Tax Act approved July 14, 1955, and being 35 ILCS 105/3-5(11), as
amended, shall not apply to the privilege of using in such municipality any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside the state at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of this
state’s government.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3) (Ord. 74-7, passed - -1974; Ord. passed 9-2-1980)
CHAPTER 111: SPECIAL SALES; PERSONAL SALES
Section
Automatic Vending Machines
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Fees
   
111.04   Inspection; analysis   
   
111.05   Identification of machines   
   
111.06   Machine location   
   
111.07   Purchase of cigarettes by minors   
Kennels and Pet Shops
   
111.20   License required   
   
111.21   Definition   
   
111.22   Application and fee   
   
111.23   Consent   
   
111.24   Premises   
   
111.25   Sanitation   
   
111.26   Inspection   
   
111.27   Revocation   
   
111.28   Adoption of Animal Welfare Act
   
111.29   Exemption for existing licensed kennels   
Garage Sales
   
111.40   Definitions
   
111.41   Regulations
   
111.42   Exemptions
Direct Sale of Baked Goods
   
111.55   Definition   
   
111.56   Requirements   
   
111.57   Inspections   
   
111.58   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain in the village any automatic vending
machine for the sale of candy, nuts, soft drinks, including coffee and milk,
popcorn, sandwiches, or other foods, cigarettes, or gum without first having
obtained a license for each such automatic vending machines as provided in this
subchapter. Such license shall be renewed annually.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to sell candy, nuts, soft drinks, including coffee and
milk, popcorn, sandwiches and other foods, cigarettes, or gum by means of
automatic vending machines, shall make application for a license for that
purpose to the Village Clerk, in which application shall be set forth the full
name and address of the applicant and the number and type of machines for which
the applicant desires licenses, the proposed location of each machine, and the
owner of each machine if other than applicant.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 FEES.
   The fees for a license pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall
be set by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 INSPECTION; ANALYSIS.
   (A)   The Village President may authorize and direct an inspection and
examination of all food or drink being offered for sale by means of automatic
vending machines for the purpose of ascertaining whether the laws of the state
and of the village in relation to sales from the vending machines are complied
with and that the food and drink so offered for sale have been kept fresh,
clean, and wholesome; and it shall be the duty of all persons operating the
vending machines, upon the demand of the village, to furnish to inspection
samples of all such food and drink which samples may be analyzed by the
village.
   (B)   All locations where the machines are placed are subject to inspection
by the village in order to ascertain that the candy, nuts, soft drinks,
including coffee and milk, popcorn, sandwiches, and other foods and gum shall
be free from contamination and in a wholesome condition; and all machines shall
be kept within the enclosure of a substantial building, and the owners of the
machines shall, on the request of the village, furnish keys for the machines,
so that the contents of same may be inspected in company with a representative
that the owner of the machine may designate.
(Prior Code, 2-3-4)
§ 111.05 IDENTIFICATION OF MACHINES.
   It shall be the duty of each licensee to properly identify each machine or
device licensed hereunder by affixing a card, emblem, or plate to said machine
which contains the name and address of the owner or licensee thereof.
(Prior Code, 2-3-5) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 MACHINE LOCATION.
   No candy, nut, soft drink, including coffee and milk, popcorn, sandwich, and
other foods or gum machines shall be installed or kept in any toilet or
washroom.
(Prior Code, 2-3-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 PURCHASE OF CIGARETTES BY MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in charge of the
premises where a cigarette vending machines is located, to permit any person
under 21 to use, operate, or make purchases from said cigarette vending
machine.
(Prior Code, 2-3-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
KENNELS AND PET SHOPS
§ 111.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a kennel or pet shop anywhere in the village
without first securing a license as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 DEFINITION.
   The terms KENNEL and PET SHOP shall be construed to include any
establishment for the raising, training, boarding, or selling of dogs, cats,
birds, mice, rats, or other small animals for hire or profit or where more than
two dogs and or cats are harbored or kept. Dogs and cats under the age of six
months are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976)
§ 111.22 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   Application for such license shall be made upon the form provided by the
Village Clerk. The fee to be paid for such license shall be as assessed by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 111.23 CONSENT.
   (A)   The consent of all adjoining or neighboring owners whose property is
located within 300 feet of the property of the proposed licensee is required as
a prerequisite to the conduct of any kennel or pet shop. Said consents must be
obtained by securing the necessary signatures to a written consent petition.
Such petition should be filed with the Village Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consent once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such petition
need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business, whether by
the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 PREMISES.
   Any premises, area, or piece or parcel of land licensed and used as a kennel
or pet shop shall be enclosed with either a solid non-transparent wall or fence
or link-weave steel wire or combination thereof with a minimum either of seven
feet from the ground level excepting for entrances and exists. The fence or
wall shall not contain any poster or advertising of any kind excepting one sign
of the licensee not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 SANITATION.
   (A)   Every place used as a kennel or pet shop shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed to remain
thereon for more than 24 hours.
   (B)   All animals shall be humanely treated; and any animal having any
disease shall be properly isolated and treated.
   (C)   The regulations relating to the Animal Welfare Act of the state, being
8 Ill. Adm. Code 25 et seq. and 225 ILCS 605/1, adopted from time to time are
adopted by reference as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall periodically inspect each such place of business
to determine whether the provisions of this code regulating the health and
sanitation applicable thereto are being complied with.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976)
§ 111.27 REVOCATION.
   Any license may be revoked by the Mayor at any time during the life of such
license for any violation by licensee of the ordinance provisions relating to
the license, the subject matter of the license, or to the premises occupied;
Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976)
§ 111.28 ADOPTION OF ANIMAL WELFARE ACT.
   The Animal Welfare Act, being 225 ILCS 605 is hereby adopted as within this
section by reference.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976)
§ 111.29 EXEMPTION FOR EXISTING LICENSED KENNELS.
   All persons or other business entities holding a valid license for the
operation or maintaining of a kennel or a pet shop by the state on the
effective date of this subchapter shall be exempt from the provisions thereof,
as long as said license remains in full force and effect.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976)
GARAGE SALES
§ 111.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Sometimes also referred to by such names as LAWN SALE, BACKYARD
SALE, YARD SALE, ATTIC SALE, RUMMAGE SALE, or a FLEA MARKET SALE, a sale or an
offer for sale of miscellaneous items to the general public upon residential
property not otherwise used for commercial purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The owner-occupant, tenant, or custodian of the premises whereon a
garage sale is to be conducted.
   PERSON. Individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations, and corporations.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 2-16-2021)
§ 111.41 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct more than six garage sales during a
calendar year on a property zoned for residential use. Each such garage sale
may last up to, but not more than, three consecutive calendar days and any part
of a calendar day during which a garage sale is conducted shall constitute one
day for purposes of this subchapter.
   (B)   Garage sales may only be conducted during the hours of 8:00 a.m.
through 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   No person shall conduct a garage sale without first having obtained a
permit from the Village Clerk and posting the permit in a conspicuous location
at the place where the sale is conducted. The person conducting the sale shall
complete and submit an application to be provided by the village at least three
calendar days before the intended garage sale date.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale at a garage sale items other
than used and discarded items of personal property.
   (E)   The permit holder for a garage sale is responsible for and shall
ensure adequate and safe parking for the duration of the garage sale. At no
time shall the permit holder cause or allow the obstruction of any village
street, alley, sidewalk, right-of-way, or other public areas used for travel by
the public.
   (F)   Items offered for sale shall not be displayed on public rights-of-way
including sidewalks, streets, and alleys.
   (G)   Items offered for sale shall not be displayed on exterior property
before the first day or after the final day of the garage sale.
   (H)   Signs advertising a garage sale shall not be placed on traffic signs,
public utility poles, or upon public rights-of-way.
   (I)   Signs advertising a garage sale must be removed within 24 hours
following the conclusion of the garage sale.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 2-16-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to a garage sale conducted by a bona fide
charitable, civic, educational, cultural, or governmental institution or
organization when items for sale are not sold on a consignment basis and the
proceeds of the sale are used directly for the institution’s or organization’s
purposes.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 2-16-2021)
DIRECT SALE OF BAKED GOODS
§ 111.55 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME KITCHEN OPERATION. A person who produces or packages non-potentially
hazardous food in a kitchen of that person’s primary domestic residence for
direct sale by the owner or a family member, or for sale by a religious,
charitable, or nonprofit organization, stored in the residence where the food
is made.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 111.56 REQUIREMENTS.
   The following conditions must be met in order to qualify as a home kitchen
operation:
   (A)   Monthly gross sales do not exceed $1,000;
   (B)   The food is not potentially hazardous baked food, as defined in § 4 of
the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act (410 ILCS 625/4); and
   (C)   A notice is provided to the purchaser of the baked goods that the
product was produced in a home kitchen.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.57 INSPECTIONS.
   The Department of Public Health, the county’s Health Department or the
village may inspect a home kitchen operation in the event of a complaint or
disease outbreak.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 111.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village’s legal counsel is authorized to institute civil proceedings
necessary for the enforcement of this subchapter to prosecute, restrain, or
correct violations of this subchapter. Such proceedings, including an action
for injunctive relief, shall be brought in the name of the village, provided,
however, that nothing in this subchapter and no action taken hereunder, shall
be held to exclude such criminal or administrative proceedings as may be
authorized by any of the laws of the village or the state or to exempt anyone
violating this subchapter or any part of the said laws from any penalty which
may be incurred.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person form or corporation violating any provisions of §§
111.20 through
111.29 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
111.40 through
111.42 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75.
      (2)   In addition to any fines, a person violating the provisions of §§
111.40 through
111.42 shall pay costs and assessments imposed by the court.
      (3)   Any person who is found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating the
provisions of §§
111.40 through
111.42 shall forfeit any existing garage sale permits and shall not be issued
another garage sale permit for a period on one year from the entry of the
guilty plea or finding of guilty by the court.
   (D)   Any person violating the foregoing provisions of §§
111.55 through
111.58 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $750, such fine being in addition to attorneys’ fees, court costs or
any other costs that a court may award and each day or part thereof upon which
such offense continues, shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 8-17-1976; Ord. 2015-04, passed 9-15-2015; Ord. 2021-01,
passed 2-16-2021)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions   
   
112.02   Permit application   
   
112.03   Investigation; issuance   
   
112.04   Fee   
   
112.05   Exhibition of permit   
   
112.06   Hours of solicitation   
   
112.07   Duty to observe notice   
   
112.08   Soliciting in violation of notice   
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR Any person who has obtained a valid permit, as
hereinafter provided, and who has such permit in his, her, or their possession
and on his, her, or their person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons and contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities: seeking to obtain
orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, or services
of any kind or description whatsoever; seeking to obtain subscriptions to
books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers, and every other type or kind of
publication; or, seeking to obtain contributions or donations of money, or any
other thing of value, for the use or benefit of any benevolent, charitable,
philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary association, organization, or not-
for-profit corporation. SOLICITING shall not include children under the age of
18 engaged in fund-raising activities for a school, charitable, or not-for-
profit organization located within the county.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 112.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to go in or
upon any private residence, apartment or premises in the village for the
purpose of soliciting from the occupants thereof or to canvass for orders for
goods, wares, merchandise, or service of any character or description, or for
the purpose of offering to give or to furnish, or giving or furnishing, any
goods, wares, merchandise, or service to any such occupant tp induce or invite
such orders, without having first applied for and receiving a permit, as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall be made upon a form provided by the
Village Clerk and filed with the Village Clerk. The applicant shall truthfully
state in full the information requested on the application, which shall include
at least the following and shall be made under oath:
      (1)   Name of the applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and local address, if different;
      (3)   A brief description sufficient for identification of the subject
matter of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      (4)   Name and address of person, firm, corporation, or association whom
the applicant is employed by or represents, and length of time of such
employment or representation;
      (5)   The length of time for which the permit is applied for;
      (6)   Date, or approximate date, of latest previous application for a
permit under this chapter, if any;
      (7)   Whether a permit issued to the applicant under this chapter has
ever been revoked;
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of any other state
municipality regulating soliciting;
      (9)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of
a felony, misdemeanor, or violation of a village ordinance, the nature of the
offense, the penalty assessed, the year of the prosecution and the venue in
which such matter was prosecuted;
      (10)   Each applicant shall furnish a recent photograph of passport size,
and such photograph shall be affixed to the permit when issued to the applicant
or, in lieu thereof, an applicant may utilize a separate piece of
identification having his, her, or their photograph affixed thereto; and
      (11)   Such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Village Clerk, the application shall be referred
to the Chief of Police, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant’s
business and background to be made. Applications shall be processed within five
business days of the receipt of the application by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general
welfare. In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has committed the
following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
      (2)   If the application is to be denied, the Chief of Police shall state
the reasons for the denial and return the application to the Village Clerk, who
shall notify the applicant the application is denied and no permit will be
issued.
   (C)   If as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall approve the application returning it to the Village Clerk, who
shall, upon payment of the fees provided herein, deliver to the applicant a
permit. Such permit shall contain the signature of the Village Clerk or his.
her, or their designee, and shall show the name and address of the applicant,
the subject matter of the solicitation, the amount of fee paid, the date of
issuance, and the length of time that the permit shall be operative. The
Village Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all permits issued.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 112.04 FEE.
   Each applicant shall pay an application fee as assessed by the Board of
Trustees provided, however, that persons soliciting for charitable or not-for-
profit corporations shall not be required to pay an application fee. Only one
application shall be required of the charitable or not-for-profit organization
conducting fundraising drives or other charitable solicitations, and such
application shall be filed by the person in charge of a fundraising drive or
other solicitation. The application shall contain the name and address of each
person who will be participating in the fundraising drive or solicitation.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 112.05 EXHIBITION OF PERMIT.
   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter and one piece of identification
with a photograph of the solicitor, if the permit does not have a photograph
affixed thereto, shall be carried at all times by the solicitor to whom issued
when soliciting or canvassing in the village, and shall be exhibited by such
solicitor whenever he, she, or they shall be requested to do so by any police
officer or ordinance enforcement officer of the village or by any person being
solicited.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting, as herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. or at any
time on a Sunday or the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King
Jr.’s Birthday, President’s Day, Lincoln’s Birthday (as designated by the
state), Memorial Day, Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day, Veterans’ Day,
Thanksgiving Day and the day following, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 DUTY TO OBSERVE NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto premises in
the village to first examine any notice which may have been placed on such
premises and to be governed by any statement contained in such notice.
   (B)   If the notice states, “NO TRESPASSING OR SOLICITING ALLOWED,” then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, and whether required to be registered
under this chapter or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (C)   Any such solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 SOLICITING IN VIOLATION OF NOTICE.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant to such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting either as herein defined or
otherwise, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $750, plus court costs, per offense.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2017-02, passed 1-17-2017)
CHAPTER 113: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose   
   
113.02   Definitions   
   
113.03   Local Liquor Control Commissioner   
   
113.04   Powers of Local Liquor Control Commissioner   
Licensing
   
113.15   Number of licenses   
   
113.16   License required   
   
113.17   Classification; fees   
   
113.18   Limitation on total number of licenses   
   
113.19   Applications   
   
113.20   Fingerprinting of applicants   
   
113.21   Persons ineligible to be licensed   
   
113.22   Restriction on licenses   
   
113.23   Bond   
   
113.24   Term   
   
113.25   Forfeiture   
   
113.26   Record of license   
   
113.27   Posting license   
   
113.28   Temporary license   
   
113.29   Transfer of license   
Conditions and Regulations
   
113.40   Change of location   
   
113.41   Hours   
   
113.42   Inspections   
   
113.43   Display signs   
   
113.44   Display of birth defect warning signs   
   
113.45   Display of underage drinking warning signs   
   
113.46   Sanitary conditions   
   
113.47   Prohibited conduct   
   
113.48   State and federal law   
   
113.49   Permitting violations of local ordinances or rules   
   
113.50   Report of violations   
   
113.51   Consumption; possession; false identification; employment of underage
persons   
   
113.52   Violation by minors   
   
113.53   Location restrictions   
   
113.54   Furnishing intoxicants to person under the influence   
   
113.55   Zoning
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be construed to the end that the health, safety, and
welfare of the people of the village shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors be fostered and promoted.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%, or less, of
alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
   CLUB. A group of persons or a corporation organized under the laws of this
state, not for pecuniary profit, organized solely for the promotion of some
common object other than the sale of or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept,
used, and maintained by its members through the payment of annual dues, and
owning, hiring, or leasing a building or space in a building, of such extent
and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and
comfortable use and accommodation of its members and their guests and provided
with suitable and adequate kitchen and dining room space and equipment;
provided, such a club shall file with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at
the time of its application for a license or renewal thereof, a list of the
names, resident addresses, and telephone numbers of its officers and members.
   CONSUMPTION SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead,
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked, capped, sealed, and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PATRON. Any customer, attendee, or visitor of a licensed establishment who
is not an employee of the establishment.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, club, association, corporation, or
limited liability company.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiations of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes
and means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant, or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious, or non-profit organization.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, vodka, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified,
blended, or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined herein.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.03 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Village President shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The
Liquor Control Commissioner shall receive such salary as determined by the
Village Board of Trustees. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall make such
rules and regulations to govern the conduct of licensees as are consistent with
this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.04 POWERS OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions, and duties with respect to licenses, other than licenses to
manufacturers, importing distributors, distributors, foreign importers,
nonresident dealers, and non-beverage users to:
   (A)   Grant or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for cause all
local licenses issued to persons for premises within the Commissioner’s
jurisdiction;
   (B)   Enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any time
upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions
of this chapter or the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5, or
any rules or regulations adopted by the Commissioner or by the state’s Liquor
Control Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine
said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
   (C)   Notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986, being 805 ILCS 105, or a
foreign corporation functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of
authority issued under the Liquor Control Act of 1934 has violated the Act by
selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s
license;
   (D)   Receive complaints from any citizen within the Commissioner’s
jurisdiction that any of the provision of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, or
any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto, or any provision of this
chapter have been or are being violated and to act upon such complaints;
   (E)   Receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the Village
Treasurer;
   (F)   Levy fines;
   (G)   Appoint a person or person(s) to assist in the exercise of the powers
and the performance of duties herein provided for such Local Liquor Control
Commissioner; and
   (H)   Issue subpoenas, which shall be effective in any part of this state,
to hear testimony under oath and take proof to obtain information needed in the
performance of the duties of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
LICENSING
§ 113.15 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The Village Board shall have the right and power to limit the number of
licenses of each class to be issued within the corporate limits of the village
and may also limit the number of each class to be issued in any location within
the village.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the sale at retail of
any alcoholic liquor, or possess or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor within the corporate limits of the village without first obtaining a
license and giving bond therefor as provided herein and paying to the Village
Clerk the appropriate license fee. All licenses shall be granted by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business to, or
conduct a business where, patrons are allowed to bottle, blend, deliver,
furnish, give, divide, distribute, barter, use, consume, possess, or store
alcoholic liquors in any commercial establishment without first obtaining a
license therefor from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bottle, blend, deliver,
furnish, give, divide, distribute, barter, use, consume, possess, or store
alcoholic liquors on any premises without first obtaining a licence therefor
from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish containers, water, or
other beverages for the mixture thereof for alcoholic liquors in any commercial
establishment which has not been licensed by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, licensee, agent,
servant, or employee to allow or permit any persons to commit any of the acts
prohibited in divisions (A) through (D) above.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of leasing
any premises to allow the use, sale, giving away, or consumption on the
premises of alcoholic liquor, without first securing a license, or without the
lessee first securing a license from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
   (A)   A Class A license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor, in original packages only, on the specified premises but shall not
permit consumption thereon. The annual fee for a Class A license shall be as
assessed by the Board of Trustees. The fee shall be payable in full when the
application for a license is filed.
   (B)   Class B-W Retail license shall authorize the sale at retail of beer
and wine, in original packages only, to be consumed only off the premises where
sold. The annual fee for a Class B-W license shall be as assessed by the Board
of Trustees. The fee shall be payable in full when the application for a
license is filed.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 113.18 LIMITATION ON TOTAL NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Class A licenses to be issued under this chapter shall not exceed one.
   (B)   Class B-W licenses to be issued under this chapter shall not exceed
one.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license to sell alcoholic liquor shall submit
a written application on forms furnished by the Village Clerk for a license.
   (B)   The application shall set forth the applicant’s:
      (1)   Name, address, sex, date of birth, Social Security number,
citizenship, position and percentage of ownership in the business;
      (2)   The name, address, sex, date of birth, Social Security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business of every sole owner,
partner, corporate officer, director, manager, and any person who owns 5% or
more of the shares of the applicant business entity;
      (3)   The name and address of the applicant’s business;
      (4)   The date and state of incorporation of a business entity applicant;
      (5)   Length of time in business, prior location(s) of business, and
nature of the business; and
      (6)   The address of the premises which is to be operated under the
license and the name and mailing address of the landlord if the premises are
leased.
   (C)   The application shall also state:
      (1)   Whether the applicant owns or leases the premises or place of
business which is to be operated under the license;
      (2)   Whether the applicant currently has or previously has held a liquor
license issued by any municipality or county;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a liquor license by any
municipality or county;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has ever had a liquor license revoked by any
municipality or county;
      (5)   That the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter of thing contained in
this chapter; and
      (6)   That the applicant will not violate any laws of the state or of the
United States in the conduct of the business.
   (D)   The application shall be verified and be accompanied by a fee as
assessed by the Board of Trustees. The application fee shall be paid in
certified funds and is non-refundable.
   (E)   The application shall be filed with the Village Clerk and be
accompanied by the required application fee. The Village Clerk shall deliver
the application to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (F)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall investigate and consider
the application. For this purpose, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
enlist the assistance of the Police Department and any other village officials
or officers. The investigation shall include a background and credit check.
Upon completion of the investigation, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall approve or disapprove the issuance of a license based on the application,
provided, in case of approval, that a license is available for issuance.
   (G)   In connection with the application process, the applicant may be
required to:
      (1)   Execute personal inquiry waiver forms so as to allow the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, or the Commissioner’s designees, to obtain
information from other jurisdictions and law enforcement agencies about the
applicant and businesses located outside the village’s corporate limits in
which the applicant has an interest;
      (2)   Submit information as to sources of funds for the purchase or
operation of their businesses; the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
require such information in writing or upon oral examination under oath; and
      (3)   Provide such information in writing or upon oral examination under
oath as may be required by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to determine
whether the applicant is eligible for a license and complies with all
applicable requirements of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq.
   (H)   Misstatements in the application shall be deemed grounds for refusal
to issue or renew the license, and, if a license has been issued, ground for
revocation.
   (I)   Except for applications for new licenses during the course of the
calendar year, every application for renewal of a license shall be completed
and filed with the Village Clerk on or before April 15 of each calendar year.
No application will be accepted or approved unless the application is fully
completed, signed, verified and accompanied by any required fees. Failure to
complete the application and file the same within the time limits prescribed
herein shall be deemed grounds for refusal of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner to review such license.
   (J)   If at the time of filing an application for a liquor license, no
license of the type being sought
is available and no such license becomes available within 30 days of the date
of filing the application, the application shall be returned to the applicant
and any bond posted shall also be returned. In such circumstance, no action
will be undertaken by the President of the Village Board of Trustees and the
Village Board shall not be required to hold any type of hearing on the
application.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 113.20 FINGERPRINTING OF APPLICANTS.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to require
fingerprints of any applicant for a local license or for a renewal thereof. In
case of corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies, the manager
or person in charge may also be required to be fingerprinted. For purposes of
obtaining fingerprints under this section, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall collect a fee from the applicant to cover the cost of any
fees incurred related to the submission of the fingerprints to the state’s
Department of State Police.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.21 PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO BE LICENSED.
   No licence required by this chapter shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he, she, or they resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines after
investigation that such person has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant
the public trust;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (H)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A partnership, if any general or limited partner owning more than 5%
of an interest in the partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence within the village;
   (K)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholders owning in aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such corporation,
would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
residence within the village;
   (L)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the state’s Business Corporation
Act of 1983, being 805 ILCS 5, to transact business in the state’s;
   (M)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee other than residence within the village;
   (N)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this section, or has forfeited bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (O)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (P)   Any law-enforcing public official, including any mayor, commissioner,
or member of a municipal council or board, any president or member of a county
board and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly or
indirectly, in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (Q)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (R)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense; and/or
   (S)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any premises which
has any access which leads from such premises to any other portion of the same
building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and which is
permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the public. No alcoholic
liquor shall be sold at retail in any dwelling house, flat, or apartment
building, and no license therefor shall be issued under this chapter. This
provision shall not prevent any connection between such premises and such other
portion of the building or structure which is used only by the licensee and the
licensee’s family and personal guests.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 RESTRICTION ON LICENSES.
   (A)   Any license issued hereunder shall be purely a personal privilege to
expire not later than the April 30 next after the issuance unless sooner
revoked as provided in this chapter, and such license shall not constitute
property nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution nor
shall it be alienable.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, as a condition to the
issuance of any liquor license, impose such conditions and restrictions upon
each license as the Commissioner may deem necessary to ensure that operation of
the liquor establishment shall not be harmful to the safety, morals, and
welfare of the community.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.23 BOND.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license to sell alcoholic liquor under the
provisions of this chapter shall file, with the application, a bond payable to
the village in the penal sum of $1,000, signed by a surety company qualified to
do business in the state.
   (B)   The bond shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   The observance of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   The applicant’s/licensee’s agreement to pay to the village all
fines and costs recovered against the applicant/licensee under the provisions
of this chapter and any and all other ordinances regulating the sale of
alcoholic liquors now in effect or as may be adopted.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.24 TERM.
   All licenses shall be for the term of one year and shall expire on the April
30 following their issue. The license fee shall be paid in full when an
application is filed; provided that, for any license issued on or after May
first or November first of any calendar year, the license fee from the date of
issue to the next succeeding November 1 or May 1, respectively, shall be pro-
rated, but there shall be no further fractional division of license fees.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 FORFEITURE.
   The premises for which a license has been issued shall be operated as a
going business; in the event said premises are closed for more than 30 days
without specific authorization from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, the
license issued for the premises shall be declared forfeited.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.26 RECORD OF LICENSE.
   The Village Clerk shall maintain a complete record of licenses issued by the
village and shall notify the Treasurer and Chief of Police of the issuance of a
new license or the revocation of an existing license.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.27 POSTING LICENSE.
   Every person licensed hereunder shall immediately post the license issued
and keep the license posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the power to issue
temporary licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor at any special
event, banquet, picnic, fair game, bazaar, or similar assembly, however, no
temporary permit shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in any alcoholic
liquor in original packages or in any place where the such sale is otherwise
prohibited by law. The fee for a temporary license as assessed by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Temporary permits shall only be issued to fraternal, benevolent,
charitable, civic, or religious organizations organized for non-profit purposes
and shall be for a period not to exceed to five consecutive days.
   (C)   No more than five temporary permits shall be granted to any such club,
society, fraternal or benevolent organization in any one period of six months.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 113.29 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for the period of one
year after issuance, unless sooner revoked. Any such license shall not be
transferrable except upon written application to and approval of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. The fee for such transfer shall be as assessed by
the Board of Trustees, shall accompany the transfer application and shall be
non-refundable.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 113.40 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued under this chapter shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
   (B)   Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of
this state and the ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 HOURS.
   Licensees shall sell alcoholic liquors only from 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No
liquor sales shall be permitted during the restricted hours set forth in this
section, however, retailers may remain open for sale of other merchandise.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to check all liquor establishments for
possible violations of any  local or state law concerning the sale of alcoholic
liquors and any rules or regulations issued by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Fire, Health and Building Inspectors shall make inspections for
compliance as required, to protect public safety and health, with applicable
Fire, Health, and Building Codes and regulations and submit a written report
thereof to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.43 DISPLAY SIGNS.
   No display or advertisement signs, located either inside or outside of the
licensed premises, shall be illuminated or otherwise lighted during the closing
hours as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 DISPLAY OF BIRTH DEFECT WARNING SIGNS.
   Every holder of a retail license, whether the licensee sells or offers for
sale alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on or off the licensed premises,
shall cause a sign with the message, “Government Warning: According to the
Surgeon General, women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy
because of the risk of birth defects,” to be framed and hung in plain view. The
sign shall be a minimum of eight and one-half inches by 11 inches.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 DISPLAY OF UNDERAGE DRINKING WARNING SIGNS.
   Every holder of a retail license, whether the license sells or offers for
sale alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on or off the licensed premises,
shall cause a sign with the appropriately dated message, “It’s the law your
birthday must be on or before today’s date in [appropriate year to be inserted
here] to be sold or served alcoholic beverages on these premises, be prepared
to show proof of age,” to be framed and hung in plain view. The sign shall be a
minimum of eight and one-half inches by 11 inches.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of the Village Code
and all village ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter engaged in the sale of alcoholic
liquors shall conduct his, her, or their place of business in a quiet and
respectable manner and shall eject therefrom or refuse to admit thereto all
persons rendering themselves objectionable or undesirable by reason of undue
noise or other acts disturbing the peace.
   (B)   No person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall sell alcoholic
liquor to any patron who is occupying a motor vehicle at the time of such sale.
It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor from a drive-in window or other
similar opening in the licensed premises to a person occupying a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.48 STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee in the conduct of the licensed
premises or upon the licensed premises to violate any law of the state, any law
of the United States or any rule or regulation of the state’s Liquor Control
Commission.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.49 PERMITTING VIOLATIONS OF LOCAL ORDINANCES OR RULES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, in the conduct of his, her, or
their business, to commit, suffer, or permit, through himself or herself,
agent, servant, or employee, a violation of a village ordinance. Every act or
omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, or any other chapter, by an officer, director, shareholder,
associate, representative, agent, or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed
and held to be an act of the employer or licensee and the employer or licensee
shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done
or omitted by him, her, or them personally.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to suffer or permit a violation
of any rule or regulation of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.50 REPORT OF VIOLATIONS.
   A licensee shall immediately report to the Police Department a violation of
any village ordinance, state law, or federal law occurring in the licensed
premises, or outside the licensed premises, and adjacent thereto, involving the
conduct of the licensee’s business or patrons.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.51 CONSUMPTION; POSSESSION; FALSE IDENTIFICATION; EMPLOYMENT OF UNDERAGE
PERSONS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall consume, purchase, or accept
delivery of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his, her, or their
possession, excepting the possession and dispensing or consumption by a person
under the age of 21 years of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under the age of 21 years
under the direct supervision and approval of the parent(s) or guardian(s).
   (B)   No person shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to a person
under the age of 21 years, except as allowed in division (A) of above.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to use
false identification or the identification of another to obtain alcoholic
liquor from any licensee.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish any
person under the age of 21 years any identification which is used by any other
person for the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic
beverage.
   (E)   Any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase or accept a
gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his, her, or their
possession.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years (“a
person of non-age”), to be or remain in any room, apartment, house, place, or
vehicle which is not licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor under this
chapter and wherein alcoholic liquor is being consumed by person(s) of non-age,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter; provided, however, that a person
of non-age shall not be in violation of this section where the room, apartment,
or house is that person’s actual place of domicile, unless that person permits
the use of the room, apartment or house when such person knows or in the
exercise of ordinary care should know of a substantial probability that such
place is or will be used by person(s) of non-age for the consumption or
possession of alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.52 VIOLATION BY MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, or employee of any premises
to knowingly allow any person under the age of 21 years to violate any
provision of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly suffer or
permit any person under the age of 21 years of which he, she, or they may the
parent or guardian to violate any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.53 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume, transport,
carry, or possess any alcoholic liquor, except in the original package and with
the seal unbroken, on a public street, sidewalk, parkway, public parking lot,
or semipublic parking lot. The term “semipublic parking lot” shall include any
area wherein motor vehicles are parked by the public in conjunction with any
business, enterprise, commercial establishment, or multi-family residence.
   (B)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church or school; provided, however, the Local
Liquor Commissioner may grant an exemption to this prohibition.
   (C)   No person shall transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic
liquor within the passenger area of any motor vehicle, except in the original
package and with the seal unbroken.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition
in or on any street, alley, or public place in the village.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.54 FURNISHING INTOXICANTS TO PERSON UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, officer, associate, member, agent,
representative, or employee of such licensee to give or deliver any alcoholic
liquor or intoxicating beverage to a person under the influence of alcohol or
drugs.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.55 ZONING.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor in any place where the conduct of such business is prohibited by the
village’s zoning ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues. Additionally, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the
power to revoke, non-renew, or suspend licenses granted under this chapter
pursuant to its provisions.
(Ord. 2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-2019)
CHAPTER 114: MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Adult-use cannabis business establishments
   
114.03   Public nuisance declared
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization,
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport, and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as
it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society, or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer, or
agent.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 114.02 ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated, or aid,
abet, or assist in the operation of any adult-use cannabis business
establishment within the village, and the following adult-use cannabis business
establishments are prohibited within the village:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser; or
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor, and adult-use
cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The location or operation of any prohibited adult-use cannabis business
establishment within the village in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all
available remedies.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine in the amount of $750. A separate offense shall be deemed to have been
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 11-19-2019)
CHAPTER 115: FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Food Dealers, Generally
   
115.01   Definitions   
   
115.02   Sale of unwholesome food   
   
115.03   Adulteration of food   
   
115.04   Sanitary regulations   
   
115.05   Flies and vermin control   
   
115.06   Employee regulations   
Restaurants
   
115.20   Definitions   
   
115.21   Persons with contagious diseases   
   
115.22   Examination and condemnation of unwholesome or adulterated food or
drink   
   
115.23   Inspection authority   
   
115.24   Toilet facility requirements   
   
115.25   Water supply accessibility   
   
115.26   Lavatory facilities   
   
115.27   Utensils and equipment   
   
115.28   Waste disposal   
   
115.29   Refrigeration   
   
115.30   Safe for human consumption   
   
115.31   Storage, display, and serving   
   
115.32   Premises regulation   
 
   
115.99   Penalty   
FOOD DEALERS, GENERALLY
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD. Includes beverages.
   FOOD DEALER. Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in, conducting, or
operating any of the following businesses:
      (1)   Bakeries, or any establishment for the mixing compounding or baking
for sale, or purpose of a restaurant, any bread or breadstuffs or any food
product of which flour or meal is the principal ingredient; provided, that
places where such foodstuffs are baked in restaurant kitchens for consumption
in such restaurant only or in dwellings where such foodstuffs are baked on
ordinary ranges or stoves for consumption on the premises only shall not be
considered as bakeries;
      (2)   Fruit store or establishment for the retail sale of fresh fruit and
berries;
      (3)   Grocery store, or establishment for the sale at retail of butter,
cheese, vegetables, or other provisions;
      (4)   Ice cream parlor; and
      (5)   Meat market, or establishment for the retail sale of fresh meat,
poultry, and fish.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 115.02 SALE OF UNWHOLESOME FOOD.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall offer for sale, or keep for the
purpose of selling, or offering for sale, any food of any kind intended for
human consumption which is spoiled or tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for
human consumption for any reason.
   (B)   All tainted and unwholesome food intended for human consumption may be
condemned by the Board of Health and shall thereupon be seized and destroyed by
any police officer.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or keep for such purpose, any food
or drink intended for human consumption which has been adulterated by any
material harmful in any way or which does not comply with the statutes
governing the same.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   Premises used for the sale or storage of food intended for human consumption
must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. It is unlawful to permit any
accumulation of refuse or waste of any kind to remain therein for more than 24
hours, and it is unlawful to permit any decaying matter or decaying animal or
plant material to remain on such premises.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 FLIES AND VERMIN CONTROL.
   Premises used for the storage, preparation, or sale of food intended for
human consumption shall be kept free from flies and vermin and rodents.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale or human consumption, shall keep themselves clean, both as to
person and clothing.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of
any infectious or contagious disease, to handle or be engaged in the care or
preparation of any such food, and it is unlawful to permit any such person to
be employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared or sold, or
to deliver such food.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
RESTAURANTS
§ 115.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD. Includes beverages other than alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Includes any place where food or drink (other than alcoholic
liquor) is prepared or served to the public for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 115.21 PERSONS WITH CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   It is unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any
infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the care or
preparation of any such food, and it is unlawful to permit any such person to
be employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared or sold, or
to deliver such food.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.22 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME OR ADULTERATED FOOD OR
DRINK.
   Samples of drink, food, and other substances may be taken and examined by
the village as may be necessary for the detection of unwholesome or
adulteration. The village may condemn and forbid the sale of, or cause to be
removed or destroyed, any food or drink which is unwholesome or adulterated.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 115.23 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The Village President shall cause to be made such inspections as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 115.24 TOILET FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate and conveniently located
toilet facilities for its employees conforming with the ordinances of the
village. In restaurants hereafter constructed, toilet rooms shall not open
directly into any room in which food, drink, or utensils are handled or stored.
The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept
in a clean condition, in good repair and well lighted and ventilated. Hand-
washing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by employees.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 115.25 WATER SUPPLY ACCESSIBILITY.
   Running water under pressure shall be easily accessible to all rooms in
which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and the water supply shall be
adequate and of a safe, sanitary quality.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.26 LAVATORY FACILITIES.
   Adequate and convenient hand-washing facilities shall be provided in
lavatory facilities, including hot and cold running water, soap, and approved
sanitary towels. The use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall
resume work after using the toilet room without first washing his, her, or
their hands.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.27 UTENSILS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Construction.
      (1)   All multi-use utensils and all show and display cases or windows,
counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating equipment, sinks, and other equipment
or utensils used in connection with the operation of a restaurant, shall be so
constructed as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in good repair.
      (2)   Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or lead, shall not be
used; provided, that solder containing lead may be used for jointing.
   (B)   Cleaning and bactericidal treatment.
      (1)   All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods, and sinks, shall be kept clean
and free from dust, dirt, insects, and other contaminating material. All
clothes used by waiters, chefs, and other employees shall be clean. Single-
service containers shall be used only once.
      (2)   All multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly
cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process after
each usage. All multi-use utensils used in the preparation or serving of food
and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process immediately following the day’s operation. Drying clothes,
if used, shall be clean and used for no other purpose.
   (C)   Storage and handling. After bactericidal treatment, utensils shall be
stored in a clean, dry place protected from flies, dust, and other
contamination and shall be handled in such a manner as to prevent contamination
as far as practicable. Single-service utensils shall be purchased only in
sanitary containers and shall be stored therein in a clean, dry place until
used and shall be handled in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.28 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and all garbage and trash shall be
kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as not to become a nuisance.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.29 REFRIGERATION.
   All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at or below 50°F except
when being prepared or served. Waste water from refrigeration equipment shall
be properly disposed of.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.30 SAFE FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   All food and drink shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage and
so prepared as to be safe for human consumption.
   (B)   All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream, and other frozen desserts
served, shall be from approved sources. Milk and fluid milk products shall be
served in the individual original containers in which they were received from
the distributor or from a bulk container equipped with an approved dispensing
device; provided, that this requirement shall not apply to cream, which may be
served from the original bottle or from a dispenser approved for such service.
   (C)   All oysters, clams, and mussels shall be from approved sources and, if
shucked, shall be kept until used in the containers in which they were placed
at the shucking plant.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31 STORAGE, DISPLAY, AND SERVING.
   All food and drink shall be so stored, displayed, and served as to be
protected from dust, flies, vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents,
unnecessary handling, droplet infection, overhead leakage, and other
contamination. No animals or fowls shall be kept or allowed in any room in
which food or drink is prepared or stored. All means necessary for the
elimination of flies, roaches and rodents shall be used.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.32 PREMISES REGULATION.
   The premises of all restaurants shall be kept free and clean of litter or
rubbish. None of the operations connected with a restaurant shall be conducted
in any room used as living or sleeping quarters. Adequate lockers or dressing
rooms shall be provided for employees’ clothing and shall be kept clean. Soiled
linens, coats, and aprons shall be kept in containers provided for this
purpose.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 116: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Coin-in-the-Slot Amusement Devices
   
116.01   Unlawful use
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   License required; application
   
116.04   Application fee
   
116.05   Number limitation
   
116.06   Age requirement   
 
   
116.99   Penalty
COIN-IN-THE-SLOT AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 116.01 UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership firm, association,
cooperation, or club to keep or use in any place of business reported within
the corporate limits of the village any coin-in-the-slot amusement devices as
hereinafter described.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-IN-THE-SLOT AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Is as follows:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device which is designed to
be played for amusement and which, in its operation, shoots or propels an
electric light ray or impulse from a gun held and operated by the player of the
device, to a target which contains a receiving photoelectric cell; and
      (2)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical bowling, pool table,
shuffleboard, or pinball device which is designed to be played for amusement
and which, in its operation, delivers to the player thereof one or more balls
or other projectiles which must be rolled from or impelled by the hand of the
player or by a mechanical or other device, into a cup or receptacle, or other
scoring device.
   LOCATION. A business enterprise operated as a unit, whether on one or more
floors or in one or more buildings.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC REPORT. Any premises wherein any coin-in-the-slot amusement
device is kept for gain or profit or on any premises used as a club house or
club rooms.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation, or club to display or cause to be displayed, for play by the
public a coin-in-the-slot amusement device described in §
116.04, unless such person, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
club shall first obtain from the village an operator’s license. Such operator’s
license shall be issued for one year terminating the last day of June next
following the date of issuance.
   (B)   In order to obtain a license to operate a coin-in-the-slot amusement
device described in §
116.04 within the village limits of the applicant shall file with the Village
Clerk of said village, a written statement setting forth the full name and
address of the applicant or applicants, or the names and addresses of the
stockholders of the corporation if the applicant is a corporation, or the names
and addresses of the officers of any club or association, and the present or
last occupation of the applicant or applicants as of the time of the filing of
the application. Said application shall be signed by the applicant, or in the
case of a firm, corporation, club, or association, an authorized signatory who
shall file, along with the application, proof of his, her, or their
authorization, which application shall be referred by the Village Clerk to the
President of the village. The President shall investigate the applicant and
make his, her, or their report and recommendation to the Village Board. Upon
approval of the application by the Village Board, said operator’s license shall
be issued, provided that no operator’s license shall be issued by the village
to any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has not been a bona fide resident of the village for
at least one year immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character or reputation in the village;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States of America;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state or any other state or federal government;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (6)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of an
operator’s license hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a
first application; or
      (7)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, director, or shareholder
would not be eligible to receive an operator’s license hereunder for any
reason.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 APPLICATION FEE.
   Each application for an operator’s license hereunder shall be accompanied by
the annual fee as assessed by the Board of Trustees for each machine. Said
annual operator’s license fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk of the
village. The village reserves the right to reject any and all applications for
an operator’s license hereunder or for the renewal of any operator’s license
previously issued by the village and upon any such rejection, the license fee
paid by the applicant shall be returned.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 116.05 NUMBER LIMITATION.
   No person, firm, corporation, club, partnership, or association, licensed
hereunder, shall display or cause to be displayed more than four coin-in-the-
slot amusement devices in one location at any one time.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 AGE REQUIREMENT.
   No person of less than 16 years of age shall be allowed or permitted to play
any coin-in-the-slot amusement device.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, club, partnership, or association convicted
of violating the terms of this chapter shall be fined not less than $75 nor
more than $750 with each day being considered as a separate violation.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 9-1-1981)
CHAPTER 117: SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Special use permit required
   
117.03   License required
   
117.04   License applications
   
117.05   Fee
   
117.06   Regulations
   
117.07   Maximum occupancy
   
117.08   Denial of applications; license revocation
   
117.09   Violations
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (A)   GUEST. A person who rents or occupies a short-term rental unit.
   (B)   HOSTING PLATFORM. A marketplace entity, in whatever form or format
which facilitates short-term rentals through advertising, matchmaking or other
means, using any medium or facilitation, or from which the operator of the
hosting platform derives revenue, including booking fees or advertising
revenues from providing or maintaining the marketplace information.
   (C)   NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT. A single-family residential
abode, including townhomes, condominiums and rooming house dwelling units that
is not owner-occupied but is rented out for short-term rental periods.
   (D)   OWNER. A person holding title or co-title of an abode, dwelling unit,
or residence that may be leased as a short-term rental but only in accordance
with the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   OWNER-OCCUPIED SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT. An owner-occupied single-family
residential abode, including townhomes, condominiums and rooming house dwelling
units that is primarily owner-occupied, except for the duration of any short-
term rental period.
   (F)   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT. An owner-occupied or non-owner-occupied
single-family residential abode, including townhomes, condominiums and rooming
house dwelling units that are either primarily owner-occupied, except for the
duration of any short-term rental period, or are owned but not owner occupied
for the duration of any short-term rental period.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.02 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A short-term rental unit license shall only be permitted upon the owner's
receipt of a special use permit as provided for in
Chapter 155 (Zoning) of the Village Code.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct, keep, manage, or operate or cause to be conducted,
kept, managed, or operated a short-term rental unit without a license therefor
as provided in this chapter. A license shall be obtained for each short-term
rental unit and shall not be transferable. Licenses are required to be renewed
annually. A license shall be issued by the village upon payment of the fee as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.04 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to an applicant if the applicant
meets the requirements of this chapter. The applicant shall complete an
application on a form approved by the Village Clerk. The applicant shall, at
minimum, provide the following information:
   (A)   The applicant's name and address. If the applicant is a partnership,
corporation, or other entity other than an individual person, the applicant
shall identify a manager and state the name and address of its manager.
   (B)   The address of the short-term rental unit.
   (C)   The telephone numbers of two local responsible contact persons capable
of physically responding to issues that may arise at the short-term rental unit
within one hour of the initial attempt to contact the owner (the "Local
Contacts"). The local contacts must have physical access to the short-term
rental unit property and shall be authorized to make decisions regarding the
short-term rental unit property on behalf of the owner.
   (D)   The hosting platform(s) used by the owner.
   (E)   Evidence of insurance insuring the applicant against liability arising
out of the ownership and operation of the short-term rental unit in amounts of
at least $1,000,000 for the injury or death of one or more persons, and
$100,000 for property damage. The policy of insurance shall provide for 30
days' prior notice to the village if coverage is substantially changed,
canceled, or not renewed.
   (F)   Payment of the license application fee(s) as established by the
Village Board.
   (G)   No license shall be issued to an applicant if the owner, or any
partner, shareholder, or resident manager, of the applicant is indebted to the
village.
   (H)   While an application is pending and throughout a license period, any
amendments to information contained in a license application shall be submitted
in writing to the Village Clerk within five business days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.05 FEE.
   (A)   An owner-occupied short-term rental unit applicant shall pay an annual
license fee of $100.
   (B)   A non-owner-occupied short-term rental unit applicant who is a village
resident shall pay an annual license fee of $250.
   (C)   A non-owner-occupied short-term rental unit applicant who is a not a
village resident shall pay an annual license fee of $350.
   (D)   The annual license fee covers the period January 1 through December
31. License fees shall not be prorated or refunded and shall be paid to the
village when an application is filed.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.06 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All owners must use a hosting platform to market a short-term rental
unit. The hosting platform shall be responsible for determining the guest's
identification information and the accuracy of that information.
   (B)   No owner shall rent any short-term rental unit for any period of time
shorter than 24 consecutive hours.
   (C)   No owner shall rent any short-term rental unit for a period longer
than 30 consecutive days.
   (D)   The owner must provide on-site parking sufficient for all guests of
the short-term rental unit and instruct guests to refrain from on-street
parking. Guests shall not park vehicles on village streets overnight unless
specially permitted.
   (E)   A short-term rental unit shall have installed working smoke detectors,
carbon monoxide detectors, and any other safety warning systems as required by
Illinois law and/or the Chief of the Grand Ridge Volunteer Fire Department and/
or the village's Police Department.
   (F)   A kitchen in a short-term rental unit shall be cleaned and sanitized
between guest rentals and all food and beverages shall be discarded. All
dishes, utensils, pots, pans, and other cooking utensils shall be cleaned and
sanitized between guest rentals.
   (G)   Supplied bed linens and towels for a short-term rental unit shall be
changed at least once each week, and prior to the renting of a short-term
rental unit to a new guest. The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance
of all supplied linens in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (H)   The owner shall keep a guest register in which the name of every guest
and the guest's arrival and departure dates shall be recorded in written form.
The guest register shall be maintained for at least a five year period. The
owner shall make the guest register freely accessible to a police officer or
the village's Building Inspector.
   (I)   The owner shall prominently display in a short-term rental unit rules
and regulations of the village that apply to the occupancy of the short-term
rental unit property. Such information includes information pertinent to the
neighborhood where the short-term rental unit is located including, but not
limited to, parking restrictions, noise restrictions, trash disposal, et
cetera.
   (J)   The owner shall post, inside the front entrance to every short-term
rental unit, a short- term rental license issued by the village stating the
owner's name, a 24-hour telephone number to reach the owner, the contact
information for the local contacts, and the maximum occupancy of the short-term
rental unit as allowed by this chapter.
   (K)   The owner shall comply with the village's Hotel Tax as set forth in §§
33.45 through
33.99 of the village code.
   (L)   Any short-term rental unit applying for a license or issued a license
in accordance with this chapter shall be subject to inspection by the village's
Building Inspector, or other village designees, to determine that the short-
term rental unit meets and continues to meet the requirements set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.07 MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   No owner shall permit the occupancy of any short-term rental unit to exceed
the maximum number of persons in a dwelling unit as set forth below.
 
Number of Bedrooms Maximum Number of Persons in a Short-Term Rental Unit at One
                   Time
1                  3
2                  5
3                  7
4                  9
5                  11
 
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.08 DENIAL OF APPLICATIONS; LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing if an
application is denied and the reasons therefor.
   (B)   (1)   A license may be revoked if:
         (a)   There is any material misrepresentation made on an application;
         (b)   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
         (c)   The license holder has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or other applicable local ordinance or state law; or
         (d)   The village determines the continued operation of the short-term
rental unit constitutes an unreasonable safety hazard.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall issue a written notice of a license
revocation which shall be hand delivered to the owner or sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the owner at the address on the application
or sent by email to an email address provided by the owner on the application.
Revocation of the license shall be effective immediately after personal service
or on the third day after the post mark of the certified mail receipt or on the
following day if sent via email.
   (C)   The denial of an application or revocation of a license may be
appealed in writing to the Village Board within ten business days from the
notice of denial or the revocation. The Village Board shall hold a public
hearing at which the affected license applicant or holder may appear, present
witnesses and evidence, and be represented by an attorney. The Village Board
shall uphold the denial or revocation if it determines by a preponderance of
the evidence that the insufficiency or violation which was the basis for the
denial or revocation occurred. During the appeal process, a license revocation
shall remain in full force and effect.
   (D)   In the event a license is revoked due to a failure to maintain the
required liability insurance in compliance with this chapter, the Village
President, in his or her discretion, may reinstate the license, upon
documentation of reinstatement of the required insurance.
   (E)   If a license is revoked and not reinstated as provided for in division
(D) of this section, the special use permit issued for the property shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 117.09 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is subject to a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750, plus court costs.
   (A)   The fine for a first violation is $100.
   (B)   The fine for a second violation is $250.
   (C)   The fine for a third violation is $500.
   (D)   The fine for the fourth and subsequent violations is $750.
   (E)   Each day a section of this chapter is found to have been violated
constitutes a separate violation subject to the fine schedule set forth in this
section.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-20-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PUBLIC PEACE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
133.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Offenses Against Property
   
130.01   Public and private property   
   
130.02   Trespassing   
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
130.15   Disorderly conduct   
   
130.16   Disturbing lawful assemblages   
   
130.17   Fighting   
   
130.18   Unnecessary noises   
   
130.19   Loitering; unlawful occupancy
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.01 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall wilfully, maliciously, or negligently break, deface,
injure, or destroy any property of the village or the property of any private
person or corporation therein, shall be fined according to §
130.99.
   (B)   Whoever shall, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the
premises, post, paint, put up, stick, or place any handbill, placard, show
bill, or notice upon any building or fence, or shall cut, mark, scratch,
deface, or otherwise injure any fence, gate, or railing, or any part of any
building, shall be fined according to §
130.99; provided, this division (B) shall not apply to officers who may post
notices as provided by law or ordinance.
   (C)   No person shall fasten in any way any showcard, poster, or other
advertising device upon public or private property unless legally authorized to
do so. Any and all posters, placards, and signs placed on private property
advertising said sale shall be removed immediately after said sale.
   (D)   Whoever shall cover, mutilate, deface, tear down, destroy, or injure
in any manner any poster, bill, advertisement, or legal notice lawfully upon
any billboard or other place within the village, within ten days after the same
shall have been posted, or when such poster or notice is dated, until after the
date of the happening of the event of which the notice is given, shall be fined
according to §
130.99.
   (E)   No person shall place or erect upon any public way or passageway to
any building an obstruction of any type unless duly authorized or required for
the purpose of safeguarding the public.
   (F)   No person shall move, disturb, or take any earth, stone or other
material from any public street, alley, park, or other public ground.
   (G)   Whoever, without authority from the owner, shall within the village
cut, injure, remove, or destroy any fruit, ornamental, or shade tree, or the
boxing around same, or any fence, railing, gate, post, sign, curbstone,
hydrant, or out building upon any public ground, lawn, sidewalk, or private
premises against the consent of the owner or occupant thereof, or shall
trespass upon any private premises or public grounds, or injure, take away, or
destroy any tree, shrub, fruit, plant, vegetable, or other thing which may be
therein for ornament or utility, shall be fined according to §
130.99.
   (H)   Whoever shall wilfully or heedlessly change, remove or destroy any
stone, stake, or post set or placed to mark the corner of any lot or parcel of
ground, street, or alley, or to show the grade of any street, alley, or
sidewalk within the village, shall be fined according to §
130.99.
   (I)   No person shall solicit for sale, rent, or purchase any property by
making representations that such property has been, or is about to be, reduced
in value by reason of the race, religion, or national origin of a person who
has moved, or may move, into the vicinity of that property.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon land of the village
or any building on such land, after receiving, immediately prior to such entry,
notice from the village or its representative that such entry is forbidden, or
remains upon such land or in such building after receiving notice from the
village or its representative to depart, and who thereby interferes with
another person’s lawful use or enjoyment of such building or land.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the village or its representative if
he, she, or they has been notified personally, either orally or in writing, or
if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry to him, her, or them or a
group of which he, she, or they is a part, has been conspicuously posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 130.15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Section 26-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/26-1, as now or
hereafter amended, is adopted by reference.
§ 130.16 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES.
   No person shall disquiet or disturb any congregation or assembly for
religious worship, or any other lawful assemblage or gathering, by making a
noise or by lewd or indecent behavior or profane discourse within the place of
assemblage, or so near the same as to disturb the order or solemnity of the
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 FIGHTING.
   No person shall fight another person except in boxing exhibitions duly
authorized and licensed by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   (A)   Disturbing peace. No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made
or continued, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise, or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety of others; nor permit any building or premises owned by him,
her, or them, or in his, her, or their possession or control, to be used or
rented for any use which will disturb or destroy the peace of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Sound advertising from aircraft.
      (1)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any aircraft for
any purpose in or over the village with sound amplifying equipment in
operation.
      (2)   Sound amplifying equipment, as used herein, shall mean any machine
or device for the amplification of music, the human voice, or any other noise
or sound, except that it shall not be construed as including warning devices on
authorized emergency aircraft or any horns or other warning devices used only
for traffic safety purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 LOITERING; UNLAWFUL OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand, or
remain idle, either alone or in consort with others, in a public place in such
manner so as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tend to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians;
or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk, or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress, and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
   (B)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in
this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that
person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to move on or
disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this section.
   (C)   One wandering abroad, and occupying, lodging, or sleeping in any
vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop, or other building or structure,
or in any automobile, truck, railroad car, or other vehicle without owning the
same or without permission of the owner or person entitled to the possession of
the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during the hours of darkness and not
giving a satisfactory account of himself, herself, or themself; or
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $75 nor more than $750.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Advertisement by samples
   
131.02   Articles on windows
   
131.03   Dangerous places guarded
   
131.04   Explosives
   
131.05   Fireworks
   
131.06   Hitchhiking
   
131.07   Interference with Police Department
   
131.08   Intoxicating liquors
   
131.09   Playing on railroad tracks; jumping on trains
   
131.10   Throwing missiles
Prohibiting Criminal Nuisances
   
131.25   Declaration of public nuisance
   
131.26   Prohibition of criminal public nuisance; abatement
   
131.27   Definitions
   
131.28   Pre-abatement procedure
   
131.29   Judicial abatement procedure
   
131.30   Abatement remedy
Possession of Cannabis and Drug Paraphernalia
   
131.45   Definitions
   
131.46   Possession unlawful
   
131.47   Authorized use of cannabis
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 ADVERTISEMENT BY SAMPLES.
   No person shall distribute, cast, throw, or place, or cause to be
distributed, cast, thrown, or placed, in, upon or along any of the streets,
alleys or public places of the village, or upon the porches or yards of private
residences therein, or within any dwelling or building in the village, any
samples of merchandise or medicinal preparations for the purpose of advertising
or making known, in a general or promiscuous manner, any business, occupation,
preparation, medical treatment, medicine, or any merchandise whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-1) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   No person shall place any moveable article on any window ledge or other
place abutting a street, alley or other public place in such a manner that the
same is in danger of or can fall onto the street, alley, or other public place
from a height greater than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DANGEROUS PLACES GUARDED.
   Whoever shall leave open any coal hole, cellar door, vault, well,
excavation, ditch, or other hole upon or adjoining any street, alley, or
sidewalk within this village without securing or protecting the same so as to
prevent persons or animals from falling therein, shall be fined according to §
131.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-3) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Storage. No person shall keep or store any dynamite, nitroglycerin,
TNT, gunpowder, or guncotton in any quantities, except for medical or
laboratory purposes, and for such purposes no more than five pounds shall be
stored in any one building or premises.
   (B)   Rules of State Fire Marshal. All explosives kept or stored in the
village shall be kept or stored in accordance with the rules enforced by the
state’s Fire Marshal with respect to the same.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Use prohibited. No person shall cast, throw, light, or fire any squib,
cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun, revolver, pistol, or cartridge, or other
combustible firecrackers or fireworks of any kind.
   (B)   Sale and display prohibited. No person shall exhibit, or have in his,
her, or their possession with intent to give away, sell, or offer for sale,
fireworks of any kind.
      (1)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to the sale,
storage, or use of railroad torpedoes or other signaling device or the use of
flashlight composition by photographers or dealers in photographic supplies.
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to prevent any public
demonstration or display of fireworks of any kind conducted under proper police
supervision after application made, and permit issued, by the Chief of Police
for such demonstration.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-5) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall hitchhike, “thumb rides” or go upon the public streets and
highways for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Resisting officer. No person shall resist any police officer or any
person duly empowered with police authority while in the discharge, or apparent
discharge, of his, her, or their duty, or in any way interfere with or hinder
him, her, or them in the discharge of his, her, or their duty.
   (B)   Assisting in escape. No person shall offer or endeavor to assist any
person in the custody of a police officer, or a person duly empowered with
police authority, to escape, or to attempt to escape, from such custody.
   (C)   Impersonating an officer. No person other than an official police
officer shall wear or carry the uniform, apparel badge, identification card, or
any other insignia of office like, or similar to, or a colorable imitation of,
that adopted and worn or carried by the police officers of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-7) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   (A)   Manufacture. No person shall manufacture any intoxicating liquors on
any premises owned or controlled by him, her, or them for sale or gift.
   (B)   Accepting orders. No person, other than a licensed retailer, shall
solicit or take any order or orders for the purchase of intoxicating liquors.
   (C)   Handling. No person shall carry on or about his, her, or their person,
or engage or employ any other person to so carry, any intoxicating liquor for
the purpose of selling, bartering, exchanging, giving away, or illegally
delivering the same.
   (D)   Search and seizure. Any officer having personal knowledge or
reasonable information that intoxicating liquors are being kept in any place,
in violation of the law, upon issuing of a search warrant by the court, shall
search such suspected place; and if such officer finds intoxicating liquor upon
the premises, he, she, or they shall seize the same, together with the vessels
in which it is contained, all implements, furniture, fixtures and vehicles used
in connection with illegally keeping, bargaining, selling, exchanging, giving
away or carrying the same, and shall arrest any person or persons in charge of
such place, or aiding, in any manner, in carrying on the business conducted in
such place.
   (E)   Consumption on licensed premises. It shall be unlawful for any person
to consume alcoholic liquor in any public place other than in or upon premises
operated for the sale of alcoholic liquor under and pursuant to a license
authorizing such sale from the village.
   (F)   Transporting alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person to
transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor upon his, her, or their
person on any street, alley, or other public place within the village except in
an unopened original package or container.
   (G)   Possession of alcoholic liquor in motor vehicle. No person shall
transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
   (H)   Intoxication. It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an
intoxicated condition in or on any street, alley or other public place in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-8) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 PLAYING ON RAILROAD TRACKS; JUMPING ON TRAINS.
   Whoever shall play about or upon any railroad track, depot, locomotive or
car within the village, or, not being a regular passenger, shall climb on or
off any locomotive, car, or train of cars within the village while the same is
in motion, shall be fined according to §
131.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-10) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 THROWING MISSILES.
   (A)   Whoever shall throw or cast any stone, brick, club, snowball, or other
missile at or against any tree, electric light or window glass or pane in any
store, house, or other building, or in or upon any street, alley, or other
public place or any private premises within the village, shall be fined
according to §
131.99.
   (B)   No person shall throw any stone, snowball, or any other missile at any
person in any public or private way.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-12) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
PROHIBITING CRIMINAL NUISANCES
§ 131.25 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any property at, in, or upon which three or more of the offenses described
in §
131.27 have occurred within a one-year period is declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 131.26 PROHIBITION OF CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or negligently permit
any property within the corporate limits of the village to become, exist as, or
be used as a criminal public nuisance property, and any owner of a criminal
public nuisance property found to exist within the village shall be subject to
the abatement procedures and penalties of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Any property at, in, or upon which one or
more of the offenses set forth below, have occurred or have been alleged to
have occurred, on three or more occasions within any one year period, as
determined by authorized sworn personnel of the village police department or by
any authorized members of a law enforcement agency lawfully exercising
jurisdiction within the village. The criminal offenses which may be considered
in determining whether or not a property is a CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 9 (Homicide) of the
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter
amended or codified, the same being a public record of the state;
      (2)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 10 (Kidnaping and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq., as now
in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of
the state;
      (3)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the following provisions of
the Criminal Code of 2012: Art. 11, Subdivision 15 (Prostitution Offenses), 720
ILCS 5/11-14 et seq., Art. 11, Subdivision 20 (Pornography Offenses), 720 ILCS
5/11-20 et seq., or § 11-21 (Harmful Material) 720 ILCS 5/11-21 et seq., as any
of the statutes referenced in this division (3) are now in effect or hereafter
amended or codified, the same being public records of the state;
      (4)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 12 (Bodily Harm) of the
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter
amended or codified, the same being a public record of the state;
      (5)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 16 (Theft and Related
Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq., as now in
effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
state;
      (6)   Any offense defined and prohibited by § 20-2 (Possession of
Explosives or Explosive or Incendiary Devices) of the Criminal Code of 2012,
720 ILCS 5/20-2 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the
same being a public record of the state;
      (7)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 24 (Deadly Weapons) of
the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq., as any of the statutes and
ordinances referenced in this division (7) are now in effect or hereafter
amended or codified, the same being public records of the state;
      (8)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 25 (Mob Action) of the
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter
amended or codified, the same being a public record of the state;
      (9)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 26-1 (Disorderly
Conduct) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq., as now in
effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
state;
      (10)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 28 (Gambling and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq., as now
in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of
the state;
      (11)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 31 (Interference with
Public Officers) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq., as now
in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of
the state;
      (12)   Any offense defined and prohibited by § 8-6 (Prohibited Sales and
Possession) or § 6-20 (Purchase or Acceptance of Gift of Liquor by Persons
Under Age 21) of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/8-6 and 5/6-20, as
any of the statutes referenced in this division (12) are now in effect or
hereafter amended or codified, the same being public records of the state;
      (13)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended
or codified, the same being a public record of the state;
      (14)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act,
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the
same being a public record of the state; or
      (15)   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by Art. 8 (Inchoate
Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/8-1 et seq., as now in
effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
state, which is relative to the commission of any of the aforesaid principal
offenses.
      (16)   This chapter shall not be enforced in such a manner that penalizes
tenants or landlords based on:
         (a)   Contact made to police or other emergency services, if:
            1.   The contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond to
domestic violence or sexual violence;
            2.   The intervention or emergency assistance was needed to respond
to or prevent domestic violence or sexual violence; or
            3.   The contact was made by, on behalf of, or otherwise concerns
an individual with a disability as defined in § 1-2-1.5(a) of the state’s
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5 (as now in effect or hereafter amended or
codified, the same being a public record of the state) and the purpose of the
contact was related to that individual’s disability.
         (b)   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic
violence or sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest
occurring in the dwelling unit or on the premises; or
         (c)   Criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring in
the dwelling unit or on the premises that is directly relating to domestic
violence or sexual violence, engaged in by a tenant, member of a tenant’s
household, guest, or other party, and against a tenant, household member,
guest, or other party.
   OCCUPANT. Any person in actual or constructive possession of any real
property within the corporate limits of the village, or any of the buildings,
structures, fixtures, or improvements located thereon.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable interest in a criminal public
nuisance property or any person who has the ability, authority, or right to
regulate, restrain, control, direct, or affect the conduct of persons present
upon a criminal public nuisance property.
   PERMIT. To allow, approve, consent to, acquiesce in, agree to, suffer, or
fail to prevent.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, unincorporated association, land trust, or any other group,
enterprise, or entity.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, together with any buildings, structures,
improvements, or fixtures located thereon or affixed thereto, located within
the village.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 131.28 PRE-ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the village’s Police Department or any authorized members of a law
enforcement agency lawfully exercising jurisdiction within the village shall
receive a certified copy of two or more court adjudications or two or more
police reports generated in the ordinary course of the business of the police
department, or any reports from sworn personnel of any other law enforcement
agency lawfully exercising jurisdiction in the village, which describe the
commission of any two or more of the offenses set forth in §
131.27 upon the same property, the village’s Police Chief or the commanding
officer of the law enforcement agency lawfully exercising jurisdiction in the
village may take the following action:
   (A)   Notify by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service, the owners or any occupant of the property that such property may be
in danger of becoming a criminal public nuisance property under the provisions
of this chapter which notice shall:
      (1)   Identify the property by either street address, county assessor
property identification number, or legal description;
      (2)   Describe the acts or conduct which have occurred on the property
that could be the basis for determining the property constitutes a criminal
public nuisance property; and
      (3)   Direct the owner or occupant to contact the Police Chief or
commanding officer within 14 calendar days of the date of the notice to
determine and implement a plan of action which will protect the property from
becoming a criminal public nuisance property.
   (B)   After complying with the notification procedure set forth in division
(A) above, if within 12 months of the notice issued in accordance with division
(A) above, the Police Chief or commanding officer receives an additional
certified copy of a court adjudication or police report describing the
commission of one or more of the offenses set forth in §
131.27 upon the property described in the §
131.28(A) notice previously delivered, the Police Chief or commanding officer
may, by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, and
in addition to either of the foregoing, by posting on the property itself,
provide the owner and/or occupant of the property with a second notice which
shall inform the owner and/or occupant that the property is a criminal public
nuisance property, describe all acts and conduct forming the basis for the
determination and direct the owner and/or occupant to contact the Police Chief
or commanding officer within 14 calendar days of the date of the §
131.28(B) notice to determine and implement a plan of action which will result
in the abatement of the property as a criminal public nuisance property.
   (C)   Proof that the notices required under this section were sent or given
in the manner required hereunder shall be deemed proof that the owner or
occupant of the property received such notices.
   (D)   Any statement made by an owner and/or occupant pursuant to the
preabatement procedure will not be admissible as evidence in any proceeding
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.29 JUDICIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In the event that neither the owner nor the occupant of the property
complies with §
131.28(A) or (B), the Police Chief or commanding officer shall notify the
Village Attorney to initiate judicial proceedings in the circuit court of the
county, to abate the criminal public nuisance, and to seek the penalties and
remedies set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   The owner and any occupant are responsible for any reasonable legal
and other expenses incurred by the village, including attorney’s fees, in the
abatement and penalty proceedings authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 131.30 ABATEMENT REMEDY.
   In any proceeding instituted under §
131.29, the court shall, in addition to any other powers granted by the
provisions of this subchapter or applicable law, have the power to enter an
order restraining the owner and/or occupant from using the property for one or
more specified purposes for a period of not more than one year, which order may
further provide that the owner and/or occupant shall post a bond or other
security payable to the village and approved by the court in an amount between
$1,000 and $5,000, which bond or security shall be forfeited over to the
village by the obligor thereof in the event that an offense set forth in §
131.27 is committed upon the property within the period of time set forth by
the court.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020)
POSSESSION OF CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 131.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 3 of the Cannabis
Control Act (720 ILCS 550/3), as it may be amended, as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 2 of the Drug
Paraphernalia Control Act (720 ILCS 600/2), as it may be amended, as if that
definition were incorporated herein.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 131.46 POSSESSION UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess ten grams or less of any
substance containing cannabis or to possess drug paraphernalia unless permitted
or otherwise authorized to do so pursuant to the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS
550/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.47 AUTHORIZED USE OF CANNABIS.
   The provisions set forth in §
131.46, shall not apply to those persons authorized to possess and/or use
cannabis in those amounts as otherwise permitted by the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130) or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (410 ILCS 705).
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.03 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (C)   Any person violating §
131.09 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (D)   Any person violating §
131.10 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3-14)
   (E)   Any owner and/or occupant of any property who intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly, or negligently permitted such property to become, be
used as, or exist as a criminal public nuisance property as described in §§
131.25 through
131.30 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 per day for each
day on which such property was used as or existed as a criminal public nuisance
property.
   (F)   Any person violating §§
131.45 through
131.47 shall be subject to a mandatory fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$200, plus court costs, per offense.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-18-2020; Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-15-2020)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
Offenses by Minors
   
132.01   Obtaining liquor, identification card   
   
132.02   False statements   
   
132.03   Procure unlawful services of others   
Offenses Against Minors
   
132.15   Curfew   
   
132.16   Purchase for minor   
OFFENSES BY MINORS
§ 132.01 OBTAINING LIQUOR, IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (A)   Any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his, her, or their
possession.
   (B)   If a licensee or his, her, or their agents or employees believes or
has reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of the non-age of the prospective recipient, he, she, or
they shall, before making such a sale or delivery, demand presentation of some
form of positive identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public
officer in the performance of his, her, or their official duties.
   (C)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have alcoholic liquor
in violation of this section. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under 21 years of age is forbidden.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   No person under the age of 18 or 21 years, as appropriate, shall make false
statements, or furnish, present, or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card or note or other document issued to a
person other than the one presenting the same, for the purpose of gaining
admission to prohibited places, or for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift
or delivery of prohibited articles, including, but not limited to alcoholic
liquor, tobacco products, or cigarettes.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 PROCURE UNLAWFUL SERVICES OF OTHERS.
   No person shall engage or utilize the services of any other person, whether
for remuneration or not, to procure for such minor any article which the minor
is forbidden by law to purchase.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST MINORS
§ 132.15 CURFEW.
   (A)   Children on streets at night. No person under the age of 18 years
shall be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or
highway at the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent,
legal guardian or other responsible companion at least 21 years of age approved
by a parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation
which the laws of the state authorize a person less than 18 years of age to
perform, unless exempted under division (C) below:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; or
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (B)   Permitting child to violate curfew. No parent, legal guardian, or
other person shall knowingly permit a person in his, her, or their custody or
control to violate division (A) above, unless exempted under division (C)
below.
   (C)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 4-19-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.16 PURCHASE FOR MINOR.
   No person shall procure for any minor any article which the minor is
forbidden by law to purchase.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Gambling   
   
133.02   Mob action and civil disobedience
§ 133.01 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Participation prohibited. No person shall engage in a game of chance
prohibited by the state statues or provisions of this village code.
   (B)   Possession of materials. No person shall have in his, her, or their
possession any evidence of illegal gambling in the nature of policy or pool
tickets, slips, checks, or memoranda of any combination or bet, or any policy
wheel, dice, implement, apparatus, or material of any form of illegal gambling
or lottery.
   (C)   Owner of premises. No person, being the owner or person in control of
the premises, shall knowingly permit the use or occupancy thereof for gambling.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 MOB ACTION AND CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE.
   (A)   Curfew. Whenever the Village President determines that an emergency
exists as a result of mob action or other civil disobedience, causing danger of
injury to, or damages to, persons or property, he, she, or they shall have
power to impose, by proclamation, any or all of the following regulations
necessary to preserve the peace and order of the village:
      (1)   A curfew upon all or any portion of the village, thereby requiring
all persons in such designated curfew areas to forthwith remove themselves from
the public streets, alleys, parks, or other public places; provided, however,
that physicians, nurses, and ambulance operators performing medical services,
utility personnel maintaining essential public services, firemen and village
authorized or requested law enforcement officers and personnel may be exempted
from such curfew;
      (2)   Order the closing of any business establishments anywhere within
the village for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but
not be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal malt beverages,
gasoline, or firearms;
      (3)   Designate any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking areas
closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic; and
      (4)   Call upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the village to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7-1)
   (B)   Proclamation. The proclamation of emergency provided herein shall
become effective upon its issuance and dissemination to the public by
appropriate news media.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7-2)
   (C)   Duration. Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall terminate after 48 hours from the issuance thereof, or
upon the issuance of a proclamation determining an emergency no longer exists,
whichever occurs first; provided, however, that such emergency may be extended
for such additional periods of time as determined necessary by the Village
President.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7-3)
   (D)   Police order. The Chief of Police shall have authority to temporarily
close any and all streets, alleys and other public ways in the village to the
public whenever, in his, her, or their opinion, it is necessary in order to
maintain the peace of the community.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND DRIVEWAYS
      
153.   TREES AND SHRUBBERY
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Construction-Related Permits
   
150.01   Definitions and standards
   
150.02   Fees
   
150.03   Effect
Fence Regulations
   
150.15   General regulations
   
150.16   Maintenance
   
150.17   Permits
   
150.18   Variances
   
150.19   Nonconforming fence regulations
   
150.20   Conflicting requirements
Swimming Pools
   
150.35   Private swimming pool; definition
   
150.36   Enclosure
   
150.37   Removal of ladders
   
150.38   Locking gates for deck
   
150.39   Water supply
   
150.40   Permit fees
   
150.41   Enforcement, right to inspect
   
150.42   Nonconforming private swimming pools
Demolition Regulations
   
150.50   Purpose
   
150.51   Permit required; fee
   
150.52   Standards
   
150.53   Bond
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION-RELATED PERMITS
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permit application shall be accompanied by a sketch of the proposed
project. All dimensions and distances to property lines must be shown on
sketch. The permit applicant must stake out the proposed project on the
property site.
   (B)   Square footage is measured from the outside walls of building
structures.
   (C)   Any new building must be at least three feet, including eaves, from
the owner’s lot line.
   (D)   The same grade shall be maintained as surrounding lots, including
landscaping.
   (E)   All new buildings and additions must maintain the same setback from
streets as surrounding buildings.
   (F)   A permit shall be required for structures even if the structure is not
permanent, for example, portable carports and sheds.
   (G)   Any changes to or use of existing waste disposal facilities or any new
waste disposal facilities must be approved by the county’s Health Department.
   (H)   Permit applicants shall provide copy of a septic permit issued by the
county’s Health Department before a building permit will be issued by the
village.
   (I)   A building permit fee for a building over 30,000 square feet will be
set by the Board of Trustees and the applicable fee will depend on the nature
and extent of the proposed project.
   (J)   The fees for all classifications not provided for in this subchapter
shall be determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (K)   If the village, by its corporate authorities, representatives, or
agents, needs consultation or services from a third party (including, but not
limited to, engineers, surveyors, inspectors, attorneys, and the like), the
applicant shall pay to the village the actual costs of such third parties.
   (L)   Permits shall expire by limitation and become null and void 12 months
after the date of permit issuance, provided, however, at the time of permit
issuance, the issuing official may approve a period exceeding 12 months for
completion of work when the permittee can demonstrate that the complexity or
size of the project makes completing the project within 12 months unreasonable.
Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of the
time within which work is to be completed under that permit when the permittee
is unable to complete work within the time required for good and satisfactory
reasons. When a permit has expired, the permit can be reinstated and the work
authorized by the original permit can continue only upon good cause shown and
payment of one-half the amount required for a new permit. Demolition permits
may be issued.
   (M)   All construction shall conform to, as applicable to the particular
structure, the International Building Code 2012, published by the International
Code Council, with amendments; the State Plumbing Code, 77 Adm. Code, 890, with
amendments; the International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings 2012, published by the International Code Council, with amendments;
the International Fire Code 2012, with amendments and the 2011 edition of the
National Fire Protection Association (“NFPA”) Electric Code (the “Electrical
Code 2011”), and all of its annexes, as published by the NFPA.
   (N)   Payment of the required fees shall be made with the application as
required in the schedule of fees set forth in §
150.02.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-17-2017; Ord 2023-02, passed 3-21-2023) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 FEES.
   The fees for construction permits issued by the village shall be as assessed
by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 150.03 EFFECT.
   This subchapter does not affect prosecutions for ordinance violations
committed prior to the effective date of this subchapter, does not waive any
fee or penalty due and unpaid on the effective date of this subchapter and does
not affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit posted, filed, or deposited
pursuant to the requirements of any other village ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-17-2017)
FENCE REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fences, including all posts, bases, and other parts, must be located
completely on private property. No fence shall be erected on public property or
right-of-way. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to locate
all property lines. Owners should have a property survey to determine limits of
private property.
   (B)   Unless a written agreement signed by the adjacent owner of record is
filed with the permit application submitted to the village, a fence or wall
must be erected, placed, or maintained at least six inches inside the lot line.
   (C)   No fence, hedge, or wall shall be placed nearer than 18 inches to any
public sidewalk.
   (D)   Any fence erected on the front or side street of a corner lot shall be
restricted to the same setback requirements as a building or structure.
   (E)   Fences in the front yard shall be at least 50% open.
   (F)   The following materials are permitted: wood; wrought iron, vinyl
(designed to look like wood or wrought iron); brick, stone, chain link (except
in front and corner side yards), and other similar materials approved by the
Building Inspector. Only one type of fencing material may be used per fence.
Fence colors shall be similar in color to surrounding structures. Except as
otherwise expressly permitted by village ordinance, barbed wire, razor wire,
single strand wire, wire mesh, wire grid, chicken wire, and concertina fences
are prohibited. No fence shall be made of, in whole or in part, cloth, sheet
metal, corrugated metal, metal scraps, canvas, or like material.
   (G)   Whenever a fence is installed, the fence posts and the rough or
unfinished side of the fence shall face toward the interior of the lot.
   (H)   No fence may be electrified except for an agricultural use.
   (I)   Fences are prohibited on village utility easements. The property owner
must check the property survey for easements. Also, fences in or across
drainage swales and easements must be erected so there is enough room under the
bottom of the fence for storm water to pass. If a property owner obtains a
variance from this prohibition, a fence may be removed at the owner’s expense
if the utility company performs work within the easement.
   (J)   A clearance of three inches shall be allowed for installation purposes
and shall not count in determining the height of a fence.
   (K)   Snow fences are permitted from November 1 through April 1. All snow
fences must be removed on or before April 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner and/or occupant of a property where a fence is erected shall
maintain the fence in good repair at all times, with no loose, rotting, or
rusting materials and in an upright position. Missing boards, pickets, posts,
and the like shall be replaced within 30 days with material of the same type
and quality. If a fence is not maintained in good condition, the Building
Inspector may order the fence to be repaired, replaced, or removed.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 PERMITS.
   (A)   No fence may be erected or replaced unless a building permit is
obtained from the Building Inspector for a fee that shall be set by the village
from time to time. The individual or agency actually constructing the fence
shall be responsible for obtaining the permit. No work shall start until the
permit has been obtained. The fee for each permit shall be triple the
established amount if the construction commences prior to the submission of the
proper application and issuance of a permit.
   (B)   A fence permit shall be null and void after 90 days from the date of
issuance if the fence authorized by said permit has not been completed.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 VARIANCES.
   The provisions of §
155.021 concerning, but not limited to, burden of proof, evidence, notice of
hearing, and filing fees shall apply to all applications for a variation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 150.19 NONCONFORMING FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The nonconforming use of any fence existing at the time of the passage
of this subchapter may be continued, although such use does not conform with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   A nonconforming use shall not be extended.
   (C)   (1)   A nonconforming fence may not be reconstructed or structurally
altered during its life to an extent exceeding in aggregate cost 50% of the
current fair value of the fence unless said fence is changed to a conforming
use.
      (2)   A fence designed for a nonconforming use, however, may be
reconstructed or altered beyond the limitations herein provided by the action
of the Zoning Board of Appeals, after public hearing, as required by law in
case of variations.
      (3)   The limitations herein provided shall not prohibit the restoration
to a safe condition of any structure or portion thereof declared unsafe by a
proper authority.
   (D)   Once changed to a conforming use, no fence shall be permitted to
revert to a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use shall not be substituted or
added to another nonconforming use.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20 CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any requirement or specification regulating fences contained in another
section of the village code that is in conflict with a provision of this, the
most restrictive shall apply, but only to the extent of the conflict.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.35 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL; DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. A human-made, rigid or semi-rigid receptacle for
water having a depth at any point greater than 36 inches, used or intended to
be used for swimming, wading, or bathing, and constructed, installed, or
maintained in or above the ground, and used by the owner or occupant of the lot
or premises in which it is located by family members, residents, and guests.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 150.36 ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   Every owner, purchaser under contract, lessee, tenant, or licensee of
a lot or premises located within the village upon which a private in-ground
swimming pool is situated shall maintain at all times on such lot or premises a
fence or other structure completely surrounding such pool, not less than four
feet in height, with no gaps or apertures other than doors or gates, with any
dimensions greater than six inches.
   (B)   All gates or doors opening through a fence or enclosure, maintained in
accordance with this section, shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices placed at the top of such gates or doors and made inaccessible
to small children. Such devices shall be designed to be capable of keeping such
doors or gates securely closed at all times when not in actual use; provided,
however, that the door of any dwelling forming a part of the enclosure need not
be so equipped.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.37 REMOVAL OF LADDERS.
   Every owner, purchaser under contract, lessee, tenant, or licensee of a lot
or premises located within the village upon which a private above-ground
swimming pool is situated shall remove or render inoperable (such as by
folding) any and all ladders to such pool.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38 LOCKING GATES FOR DECK.
   (A)   Every owner, purchaser under contract, lessee, tenant, or licensee of
a lot or premises located within the village upon which a private above-ground
swimming pool surrounded by a permanent or semi-permanent deck is situated
shall maintain a gated entrance to the deck and pool area.
   (B)   The gate shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices
placed at the top of the gate and made inaccessible to small children. Such
devices shall be designed to be capable of keeping the gate securely closed at
all times when not in actual use.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.39 WATER SUPPLY.
   Every person in possession of a lot or premises in the village on which a
private swimming pool is located shall have such pool conform with the
following regulations.
   (A)   The water supply for all in-ground private swimming pools shall be
from a connection to a public water supply and shall consist of a permanent
rigid system of piping having an air-gap delivery connection located not less
than six inches vertically above the flood rim of the pool.
   (B)   All plumbing work for in-ground private swimming pools shall meet the
requirements of the State Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All private swimming pools shall have a siphon break faucet delivery
system.
   (D)   All private swimming pools shall be maintained and operated in such a
manner as to be clean and sanitary at all times.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.40 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   A written application for a permit shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications sufficiently detailed to enable determination of compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The fee for a permit to install a private swimming pool above ground
shall be as assessed by the Board of Trustees. The fee for a permit to
construct a fence and in-ground private swimming pool shall be as assessed by
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The applicant for the permit shall acknowledge in writing receipt of
the following “Pool Safety Strategies.”
 
POOL SAFETY STRATEGIES
VILLAGE OF GRAND RIDGE
   Never assume another adult, even a lifeguard, is watching a child. Don’t allow
distractions to take your primary focus off the kids while they are in the water, and
never leave them unattended even for a moment. Even children who know how to swim may
panic if they get in trouble and can drown in a matter of minutes. Drowning is usually
a silent death and there may not be any audible splashing to signal parents.
   If there is a swimming pool at home, special precautions must be taken to prevent
kids from getting into the water without parents knowing it. A fence should be
installed around in ground pools and ladders should be removed (or folded up) from
above ground pools when not in use.
   The most important way to prevent water accidents is to teach kids a proper respect
for water. Of course they should be able to have fun at the pool or beach without fear
but they should know that they can’t breathe under water and it can be very dangerous
not to follow water safety rules.
   Establish swimming pool safety rules. Toddlers should be taught at an early age
never to run by the side of the pool and not to enter the water without an adult. Older
kids should know that they should not push others in the water.
   Teach children to back float. Children are usually capable of back floating long
before they can swim well. If kids get in a situation where they are in danger of
drowning, knowing how to back float until help arrives just might save lives.
   Instruct babysitters about potential pool hazards to young children and about the
use of protective devices, such as door alarms and latches. Emphasize the need for
constant supervision.
   Never leave a child unsupervised near a pool. During social gatherings at or near a
pool, appoint a designated watcher to protect young children from pool accidents.
Adults may take turns as watcher. Otherwise, adults may become preoccupied and assume
someone else is watching the children.
   If a child is missing, check the pool first. Seconds count in preventing death or
disability. Go the edge of the pool and scan the entire pool, bottom and surface, as
well as the pool area.
   Do not allow a young child in the pool without an adult.
   Do not consider young children to be drown-proof because they have had swimming
lessons or are wearing a life jacket.
      (1)   Do not use flotation devices, such as water wings, as a substitute for
supervision.
      (2)   Learn CPR. Babysitters and other caretakers should also know CPR.
      (3)   Keep rescue equipment by the pool. Keep a phone pool side with emergency
numbers posted.
      (4)   Remove toys from, in, and around the pool when not in use, toys attract
young children.
      (5)   Never prop open the gate to the pool.
      (6)   Keep CD players, radios, and other electrical devices away from pools or
nearby wet surfaces.
      (7)   Stay out of the pool during rain, thunder, and lightning storms.
   Never swim alone.
   Don’t allow children to play as though they are drowning. By creating a false alarm,
it might delay a rescue in case of a real emergency.
   Avoid the use of alcohol or other drugs around the water.
 
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 150.41 ENFORCEMENT, RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   The village’s Building Inspector and police officers are authorized to enter
any premises within the village to inspect any private swimming pool at any
reasonable time.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 150.42 NONCONFORMING PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Any private swimming pool located within the village on the date of
adoption of this subchapter which does not conform to the provisions of this
subchapter is considered a “legal nonconforming” private swimming pool.
   (B)   On or before May 1, 2010, all private swimming pools shall comply with
this subchapter or be subject to removal.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
DEMOLITION REGULATIONS
§ 150.50 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted to help protect property owners, workers, and
the general public.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 150.51 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   A demolition permit shall be required before any person proceeds with
any of the following work:
      (1)   The demolition or removal of 50% or more of the floor area of any
single-family or two-family dwelling.
      (2)   The demolition or removal of any interior spaces or exterior walls
of any commercial, institutional, multifamily or mixed-use buildings.
      (3)   The demolition or removal of any accessory structure.
   (B)   The permit form shall be adopted from time to time by the Village
Board of Trustees. The fee for a demolition permit is as set forth in §
33.32 of the Village Code and shall be paid when the permit application is
submitted. A demolition permit application will not be processed until the fee
is paid. The permit fee is non-refundable.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 150.52 STANDARDS.
   The standards set forth below apply to demolition contractors or to property
owners performing work without the assistance of a demolition contractor.
   (A)   The permit holder must be fully insured and provide with a demolition
permit application a Certificate of Insurance naming the village as an
additional insured. The minimum level of general liability coverage shall be
$250,000 in the aggregate.
   (B)   Before a building or structure can be demolished, the permit holder
shall notify all utilities having service connections to the building, such as
water, electric, gas, sewer and other connections to disconnect said services.
A permit to demolish will not be issued until a release is obtained from all
utilities, stating that their respective service connections and appurtenant
equipment, such as meters and regulators, have been removed, sealed, or plugged
in a safe manner. In the case of a property being served by a private well and/
or septic field, the permit applicant shall supply a statement from a plumber
licensed in the State of Illinois that the well and septic field services have
been disconnected and provide a detailed plan for the use or abandonment/
removal of the private facilities following the demolition of the structure
being served.
   (C)   The permit holder is required to determine if a hazardous waste
material removal permit is required for demolition of a structure which has
been determined to contain asbestos or other hazardous material regulated by
the Illinois Department of Environmental Protection. Before demolition may
proceed, the applicant must file a "Demolition /Renovation/Asbestos Project
Notification Form" (IL 532-1296) with the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency pursuant to Illinois law.
   (D)   The permit holder shall comply with all applicable state, local, or
federal laws with respect to demolition activities.
   (E)   When demolition by toppling occurs, reasonable measures for dust
emission control compatible with the type and structure being demolished shall
be utilized and adequate fall areas shall be determined.
   (F)   Before the demolition of any section of wall, floor, roof, or other
structure, adequate procedures to allay the dust shall be utilized. Use of a
water spray fogging nozzle is generally preferred. Where buckets are used, the
debris shall be adequately treated to preclude dust dispersion when buckets are
dumped. If particulate matter becomes airborne for a continuous period of ten
minutes, despite the use of dust control measures or due to freezing
temperatures, the demolition work shall cease at once until adequate dust
control measures can be taken.
   (G)   Where a structure has been demolished or removed and a new building
permit has not been issued, the vacant lot shall be filled, graded, and
maintained in conformity to the established elevation of the street grade at
the curb level nearest the point of demolition or excavation. The permit holder
shall take measures to prevent the accumulation of water or damage to any
foundations on the premises or the adjacent property.
   (H)   The permit holder shall be responsible for keeping demolition debris
and mud within the site. All waste materials shall be removed in a manner which
prevents injury or damage to persons, adjoining properties, and rights of way.
If debris or mud ends up off of the site, the permit holder shall be
responsible for its removal and proper disposal before the end of each workday.
   (I)   A perimeter shall be established around the structure and
appurtenances subject to demolition, in which demolition work will be
contained. The perimeter shall provide adequate room for maneuvering equipment,
short term storage of demolition materials, and take into consideration
adequate fall zones. The perimeter shall be entirely enclosed through the
installation of four foot high orange "snow fencing" to keep unauthorized
individuals out of the demolition area. Signs shall be installed warning
members of the public of the dangers of demolition.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 150.53 BOND.
   The applicant shall provide the village an indemnifying bond issued by a
company approved and authorized to issue bonds by the State of Illinois or
other form of financial security acceptable to the village in an amount of
$10,000 to be used by the village to complete demolition work in the event that
the permit holder fails to complete said demolition in a timely manner or
causes damage to any public property.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person initiates construction or demolition without first
taking out a permit as described in the applicable section of this chapter,
such person shall pay, in addition to the regular fees prescribed for permits,
a minimum of $50 or an amount equal to 200% of the fee required, whichever is
greater, and shall be subject to all penalty provisions of this chapter. Any
person violating any of the provisions herein shall be punished by a fine not
less than $75 and not to exceed $750 per violation. Each day that a violation
exists is a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.20 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-20-2018; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER 151: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose and scope
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Dispute resolution
   
151.04   Indemnification
   
151.05   Insurance
Regulations
   
151.20   Permitted use
   
151.21   Permit required
   
151.22   Collocation requirements and conditions
   
151.23   Application fees
   
151.24   Exceptions to applicability
   
151.25   Pre-existing agreements
   
151.26   Annual recurring rate
   
151.27   Abandonment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such APPLICATION.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6),
as amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(33), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with § VI.D.l.a.i through § VI.D.l.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the state’s Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the state’s Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within the state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures,
grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial, or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial, or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles, or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 151.03 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of the county shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 151.04 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act.
   (B)   A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 151.05 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village’s improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section.
   (D)   A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
REGULATIONS
§ 151.20 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject
to administrative review, except as provided in § 
151.22(I) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning
district, or outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 151.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the village to
collocate a small wireless facility.
   (B)   An application shall be received and processed, and permits issued
shall be subject to the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site-specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, being 225
ILCS 340/4;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge; and
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
         (c)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
         (d)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
      (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
      (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one-
hundred-twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt
of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
      (3)   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
      (4)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the village
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The
village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village’s review period.
      (5)   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
      (6)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
   (E)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small wireless
facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter
into a master pole attachment agreement, provided by the village for the
initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a
license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
   (F)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village. Processing
deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
   (G)   The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      (1)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the village;
or
      (2)   A local, state, or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
   (H)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities within the
jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s discretion, to
file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for the collocation
of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each involve
substantially the same type of small wireless facility and substantially the
same type of structure. If an application includes multiple small wireless
facilities, the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from
the application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for
which incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
   (I)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than five
years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter. If the Act is
repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of permits shall be subject to
the applicable village code provisions or regulations in effect at the time of
renewal.
   (J)   Applicants shall submit applications, supporting information, and
notices to the village by personal delivery at the village’s designated place
of business, by regular mail postmarked on the date due or by any other
commonly used means, including electronic mail.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.22 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair, and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition
and good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents, or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
      (1)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’s communications equipment.
      (3)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (4)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 47 C.F.R. 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672
through 47 C.F.R. 90.675.
      (5)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(4) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Zones.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      (2)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (D), the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance with safety codes. The wireless provider shall comply with
all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern
public safety.
   (F)   Compliance with design standards. The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a village ordinance, written policy adopted by the
village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
   (G)   Alternate placements. 
      (1)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and conditions
section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small
wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles,
or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
      (2)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits, or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division (G).
   (H)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated. New or
replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on
the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (I)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms, and conditions set
forth in the village’s zoning ordinance.
   (J)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (K)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   (L)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   (M)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.23 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay an application fee as assessed by the Board of
Trustees for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and for each small
wireless facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more
than one small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
   (B)   Applicant shall pay an application fee as assessed by the Board of
Trustees for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The village shall not require an application, approval, or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with §
151.21; or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 151.24 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small
wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the state’s Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/18c-7201, Metra Commuter Rail, or any
other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-
102 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/16-102, without the consent
of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility. The
provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or
such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed,
and maintained consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of § 16-108.5
of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(I).
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning given
to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement to obtain:
      (1)   A franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service
or video service; or
      (2)   Any required permission to install, place, maintain, or operate
communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 151.25 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018 shall comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees, and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees, and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (B).
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.26 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
      (1)   An amount as assessed by the Board of Trustees; or
      (2)   The actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
   (B)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee as assessed by the Board of Trustees shall be payable on the
first day after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or
notice of intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 151.27 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Permit required for construction; application
   
152.002   Construction specifications
   
152.003   Injury to new pavement unlawful
   
152.004   Obstruction
   
152.005   Barricades
   
152.006   Private use
   
152.007   Encroachment
   
152.008   Injury
   
152.009   Depositing material on streets
   
152.010   Depositing material on sidewalks
   
152.011   Obstructing drains
   
152.012   Permission to erect poles and wires
   
152.013   Gasoline pumps
   
152.014   Excavations; permit, bond required
   
152.015   Playing games; interference with traffic or pedestrians
   
152.016   Fence regulations
   
152.017   Fence and plant height restrictions at corners
   
152.018   Scaffolds
   
152.019   Articles on windows
   
152.020   Definitions
   
152.021   Prohibited
Driveways and Sidewalk Construction
   
152.035   Construction; permit and fee
   
152.036   Grade surface
   
152.037   Material specifications
   
152.038   Maintenance; repair
   
152.039   Installation of sidewalks
   
152.040   Building permit issuance; plan for sidewalk required
   
152.041   Location; construction specifications
   
152.042   Bond return
   
152.043   Completion; time limit
Prohibited Acts
   
152.055   Grade of sidewalks
   
152.056   Sidewalk not to be laid contrary to grade
   
152.057   Materials for construction of sidewalks
   
152.058   Width, incline of sidewalks
   
152.059   Special ordinances regarding sidewalks
   
152.060   Removal of earth; fine
   
152.061   Excavation; bond required
   
152.062   Filling excavations
   
152.063   Leaving excavations unprotected
   
152.064   Public ways to be free of encroachments, buildings
   
152.065   Obstructions
   
152.066   Fencing street
   
152.067   Telegraph poles and wires
   
152.068   Removal of encroachments
   
152.069   Exception to encroachments; permit required
   
152.070   Pedestrian walkway during sidewalk obstruction
   
152.071   Liability for damages
   
152.072   Barbed wire fences
   
152.073   Exhibitions, parades, public speaking; interfering with passage upon
public ways
   
152.074   Peanut and candy stands; license required
   
152.075   Newspaper or periodical stands; license required
   
152.076   Hauling and throwing offensive matter
   
152.077   Glass and similar injurious materials prohibited
   
152.078   Gates and doors, swinging over sidewalks
   
152.079   Awnings
   
152.080   Cellar doors, openings in sidewalks
   
152.081   Object on windowsill
   
152.082   Trees; planting, trimming
   
152.083   Sidewalks to be kept free of snow and ice
   
152.084   Alleys and gutters to be kept clean
   
152.085   Animals on sidewalks or lawns
   
152.086   Drains across sidewalks
   
152.087   Painting on sidewalks
   
152.088   Spitting on sidewalks
   
152.089   Bicycles on sidewalks
   
152.090   Driveway across curb
   
152.091   Tires with rough, sharp, or uneven edges
   
152.092   Mixing mortar on paved streets
   
152.093   Burning material on streets
   
152.094   Destruction of street signs, traffic-control devices
   
152.095   Stakes on pavement
   
152.096   Defective or dangerous sidewalks
   
152.097   Abatement of dangerous sidewalks
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION; APPLICATION.
   It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same, without first
having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made
to the Village Clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or
repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual
construction work. No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Mayor
and/or the Trustee appointed to review building permits.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.002 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.003 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle upon, or injure or deface
any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade, or knowingly to injure or deface any soft newly laid
pavement.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.004 OBSTRUCTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cause, create, or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the applicable
committee.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.005 BARRICADES.
   (A)   Required. 
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation laying or repairing any pavement
on a street, sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in any
such place, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person
or vehicle by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by a light
at nighttime.
      (2)   Any defects in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any
such injury, and any person, firm, or corporation properly maintaining any
opening or excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation
while the same remains open by proper barricades and lights.
   (B)   Unlawful to disturb. It is unlawful to disturb or interfere with any
barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or
excavation or opening in any public street, alley, or sidewalk.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.006 PRIVATE USE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display or sale of goods or
merchandise, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.007 ENCROACHMENT.
   It is unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008 INJURY.
   It is unlawful to injure any sidewalk, street, or alley pavement.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.009 DEPOSITING MATERIAL ON STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to deposit on any street, any material which may be
harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass, or other
articles which may cause injury to any person, animal, or property.
   (B)   Materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to delivery or use,
provided such deposit does not reduce the usable width of the roadway at the
point to less than 18 feet; provided, that such material, other than material
to be used in actual building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on
such street for more than three hours.
   (C)   Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains upon
any street after nighttime.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.010 DEPOSITING MATERIAL ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalks any material which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or
other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals, or property.
   (B)   Merchandise of a business establishment held for sale to the public
may de deposited on the sidewalks in front of or along the side of the building
occupied by such business establishment for the purpose only of displaying the
same for sale; provided, that such merchandise shall not be so deposited beyond
24 inches from the building; provided, further, that such merchandise shall not
be deposited on the sidewalks before the hour of 7:00 a.m. nor after 9:00 p.m.
from Monday through Saturday, and at no time on Sundays.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.011 OBSTRUCTING DRAINS.
   It is unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.012 PERMISSION TO ERECT POLES AND WIRES.
   It is unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any public
street, alley, or other public way without having first secured permission from
the Village Board.
   (A)   The template agreement adopted in Table I: Agreements in the Table of
Special Ordinances of this code as the Master License Agreement for Fiber Optic
Installation (a "MLAFOI") is the approved license for fiber optic installations
within the rights-of-way and property of the village.
      (1)   No fiber optic company or telecommunications company or their
contractors or subcontractors shall install fiber optic facilities in or on
village rights-of-way or property without entering into an executed MLAFOI with
the village.
      (2)   The Village President is authorized to sign, and the Village Clerk
is authorized to attest, to licensee specific MLAFOIs consistent with the
template master license agreement adopted in the Table I: Agreements in the
Table of Special Ordinances of this code and subject to review and approval of
engineering requirements by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Site-specific permits for licensees having entered into a MLAFOI
with the village shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village
Engineer.
      (4)   Neither the Village Engineer, nor the Village President, have the
authority to negotiate substantive changes, modifications, or revisions to the
terms and conditions set forth in the template MLAFOI.
      (5)   If an entity seeks to change, modify, or revise the template MLAFOI
agreement for its use, the entity will be required to submit a written petition
to revise, modify, or amend the MLAFOI which shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer, and subsequently submitted to the village's corporate authorities for
their consideration.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-4-2023) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.013 GASOLINE PUMPS.
   It is unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any public
street, alley, or other public way.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.014 EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT, BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to make any excavation in or tunnel under any public
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Village Clerk and shall specify the intended location and purpose of the
excavation and the estimated length of time that will elapse between
commencement of the excavation and restoration of the surface.
   (B)   Any person making any such excavation shall post a bond if such is
required by ordinance prior to making any such excavation.
   (C)   Any person making any such excavation shall refill the same properly
and shall restore the surface to its condition before the excavation was made
as soon as possible.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.015 PLAYING GAMES; INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC OR PEDESTRIANS.
   It is unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley, or sidewalk where
such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic or pedestrians.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.016 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or in
part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury to
persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within three feet
of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park, or other public way or place.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.017 FENCE AND PLANT HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS AT CORNERS.
   It is unlawful to construct, or maintain or permit to remain, any fence or
other structure, or any bushes or other plants, on a corner lot within 25 feet
of the street line which obstructs the view at a height of more than four feet
above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.018 SCAFFOLDS.
   Any scaffold or ladder placed in such a way that it overhangs or can fall
onto any public street, alley, or other public place in the village shall be
firmly constructed and safeguarded; and it is unlawful to place or leave any
tools or articles on any such place in such a manner that the same can fall
onto any such street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place from a height
greater than four feet.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.019 ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   It is unlawful to place any movable article on any window ledge or other
place abutting on a public street, alley, or other place a height above four
feet from the ground in such a manner that the same can be or is in danger of
falling onto any such street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
152.001 through
152.021 and 152.035 through 152.043, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. The area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the village by concurrence is
the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state to
enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign, or
similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent to
the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building lane and which does not impair the free and safe flow of pedestrian
traffic and traffic on the highway. The permissive retention of overhanging
signs is not to be construed as being applicable to those signs supported from
poles constructed outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by
adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. The areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the village, state, and the Federal Highway
Administration which will be free of encroachments except as hereinafter
defined.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. The areas existing or acquired by dedication or by fee
simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 152.021 PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or cause to be
erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment, as defined in §
152.020, within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way
where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
DRIVEWAYS AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.035 CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   Construction; permit required.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct a driveway for
vehicles or animals across any sidewalk in the village without having obtained
a permit therefor.
      (2)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk
and/or applicable committee and shall be accompanied by the fee required.
   (B)   Construction permit; fee. The fee for all such construction permits
shall be as assessed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 152.036 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression, or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
   (B)   It is unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where the
same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery and hazardous for pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.037 MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete or of such other
materials as may be approved by the applicable committee.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.038 MAINTENANCE; REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a driveway and sidewalk, to
keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from
obstruction and openings.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.039 INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be installed on every lot within the village by every person
who erects a building or structure on the lot after January 1, 2004, unless the
Village Board exempts the person because the facts and circumstances of the
situation as determined by the Village Board do not require the installation of
a sidewalk.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.040 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE; PLAN FOR SIDEWALK REQUIRED.
   No building permit as regulated by the Building Code shall be issued by any
village official for the construction of any building or structure on any lot
within the village until such time as a satisfactory plan for the construction
of a public sidewalk together with a completion bond, deposit of cash, or other
security of guaranty in an amount satisfactory to the applicable committee
shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.041 LOCATION; CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Sidewalks shall be located 12 inches from the street right-of-way line and
shall be constructed in accordance with the following.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement with a 28-day
compression strength of 3,000 pounds. Minimum slump shall be three inches and
all concrete shall be air entrained.
   (B)   Any property owner may replace and or repair, an existing sidewalk
constructed of material other than concrete with like kind material upon
approval of the applicable committee.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be constructed at a width consistent with abutting
property or in the event no abutting sidewalk exists, as follows.
      (1)   Residential districts. Minimum width shall be four feet; minimum
thickness shall be four inches.
      (2)   Commercial districts. Minimum width shall be five feet; minimum
thickness shall be five inches.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.042 BOND RETURN.
   The bond or deposit of cash or other security required by §
152.040 shall be returned to the party posting the same, upon the completion of
the sidewalk in accordance with the specifications set forth in §
152.041.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 152.043 COMPLETION; TIME LIMIT.
   The public sidewalk provided for in §§
152.001 through
152.021 and
152.035 through
152.043 shall be completed within six months after the building or structure
for which the building permit was issued, is completed and occupied. After the
expiration of the time limit above, if the sidewalks are not completed, the
village may complete or cause the sidewalk to be completed and apply the
proceeds of the completion bond, deposit, or other security toward the costs
thereof, refunding any excess.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 152.055 GRADE OF SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any sidewalk is hereafter to be laid upon or along any street or
other public place within the corporate limits of the village, the person or
persons about to build or lay such walk shall first make application to the
President and the Board of Trustees, and shall ascertain the correct grade for
such walk, which grade shall be established by ordinance before the
construction of such sidewalk and such sidewalk shall then be laid to such
grade as established. The President and the Board of Trustees shall establish
the grade for all sidewalks, and the same shall conform as nearly as may be to
the grades of the streets on which the same are located.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056 SIDEWALK NOT TO BE LAID CONTRARY TO GRADE.
   No person shall construct or lay, or cause to be constructed or laid, any
sidewalk where no grade has been established by ordinance, without having first
obtained a grade therefore from the President and Board of Trustees; nor shall
he, she, or they construct or cause to be constructed any sidewalk contrary to
any grade which may have been or may hereafter be established by the President
and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 MATERIALS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks hereafter constructed upon or along any street or other public
place within the corporate limits of the village shall be constructed of
concrete.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058 WIDTH, INCLINE OF SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks shall not be less than four feet in width. The inside line of
all walks shall be on the property line. All sidewalks shall be so construed as
to have an incline toward the gutter of the street of a least eight one-
hundredths feet to each four feet of width.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.059 SPECIAL ORDINANCES REGARDING SIDEWALKS.
   Hereafter, when any such sidewalk shall be ordered laid by the Board of
Trustees, a special ordinance shall be passed prescribing in what manner the
cost of such improvement shall be paid, which shall be either by general
taxation, special taxation, or special assessment, and such ordinance shall
conform to the statute prescribing the method of procedure under the manner of
payment adopted.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.060 REMOVAL OF EARTH; FINE.
   Whoever shall for any private purpose, dig, remove, or carry away any earth,
gravel, or sod from any street, alley, or public ground within this village
without the express permission of the Board of Trustees, shall be fined as per
§
152.999; and any officer of the village who shall use, sell or dispose of any
earth, gravel, or sod from any such place for his, her, or their own private
gain or benefit, shall be fined as per §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.061 EXCAVATION; BOND REQUIRED.
   No person or business entity unless authorized by the Board of Trustees
shall make any excavation in any street, alley, or other public place within
the village without first obtaining permission so to do from the President or
Board of Trustees; and in no event shall any such excavation be made until such
person or business entity shall have executed a bond to the village in the
penal sum of $1,000 or sum of the estimated total costs to return said street,
alley or other public place to its condition prior to said excavation as
determined by the village, whichever amount is the greatest with at least one
good surety, a resident of the village, to be approved by the Village Clerk,
conditioned for the careful return of all earth and other materials in as good
and firm condition as before such excavation was made and furnished the village
a Certificate of Insurance issued by a company and of coverage as to liability
and amounts satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.062 FILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No gravel or any other fill shall be dumped or spread on any village
street or alley by anyone other than the village.
   (B)   Any person making or causing to be made any excavation in any street,
alley, or other public place within this village shall without unnecessary
delay, cause the same to be refilled, flushed with water, and firmly tamped so
that it shall not settle or cave.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.063 LEAVING EXCAVATIONS UNPROTECTED.
   Any contractor for any public work, or any officer, or other person making
any excavation in any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place within
this village who shall leave the same open and unprotected by lights or
otherwise in the nighttime, so as to endanger the safety of persons or animals,
shall be fined according to §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.064 PUBLIC WAYS TO BE FREE OF ENCROACHMENTS, BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In general. The streets, alleys, and sidewalks of the village shall be
kept free and clear of all encumbrances and encroachments, and shall be for the
use of the public and shall not be used or occupied in any way other than as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Buildings.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or place, or cause to
be erected or placed, any building, fence, bridge, archway, or any other
structure or enclosure, extending into or across or encroaching upon any
street, alley, or sidewalk within the village without a written permit from the
President therefor; nor shall in any case encumber or obstruct more than one-
third of such street, alley, or sidewalk; nor shall such obstruction continue
in any case longer than may be necessary in the diligent erection of such
building.
      (2)   No person shall remove or cause to be removed any building through
or along any street, alley or other public place within this village, without
first having applied to and obtained the consent of the Board of Trustees, and
such application shall be in writing and shall set forth the exact route
proposed to be traversed in moving such building. Such building shall, upon
such consent being given, be moved along the route mentioned in such
application, and shall not be permitted to unnecessarily encumber any street,
alley or other public place, nor for a longer time than may be necessary for
its diligent removal, and such person shall promptly repair any damage thereby
done to any street, alley, crossing, public ground, wires, building, or other
property.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.065 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Obstruction; streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct
or cause to be obstructed any street or alley within the village with any
goods, merchandise, fuel or other articles he, she, or they may be receiving or
delivering longer than may be necessary in the diligent removal of same, except
as authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   Obstruction; sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct or cause to be obstructed more than three feet of the outer edge of
any sidewalk with any goods, merchandise, fuel, or other articles he, she, or
they may be receiving or delivering; nor shall he, she, or they permit the same
to remain on any sidewalk longer than may be necessary for the diligent removal
thereof, nor in any case to exceed 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 FENCING STREET.
   Whoever shall make or cause to be made or shall maintain any enclosure,
fence, or building of any kind extending upon, over or across any street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public place within the village, shall be fined as
per §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.067 TELEGRAPH POLES AND WIRES.
   Whoever shall set or cause to be set any telegraph, telephone, or other pole
upon any street, alley, or other public place within the village, or shall
string or hang any wire along or across any such street, alley, or other public
place, unless authorized so to do by the Board of Trustees, shall be fined as
per §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068 REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENTS.
   Whenever the owner of such obstruction or encroachment as provided in §§
152.063 through
152.065 shall fail to remove the same, such obstructions shall be deemed a
nuisance; provided further, the village may take down and remove such
obstruction or encroachment, after due notice to such owner, and the cost and
expense thereof shall be recoverable in the name of the village against such
owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-13) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.069 EXCEPTION TO ENCROACHMENTS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The preceding §§
152.063 through
152.066 shall not apply to any owner or agent of real property or any
contractor or builder or other person who first obtains a written permit
therefor issued by the village; provided, however, that except in case of
necessity, no such permittee shall encumber or obstruct more than one-third of
any street, alley, or sidewalk; provided further, that no such obstruction
continues in any case longer than may be necessary in the diligent and prompt
execution of the work.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-14) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.070 PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY DURING SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Every person permitted to in any way block, obstruct, or excavate in
or upon any sidewalk as provided in §
152.067, shall provide and construct a suitable temporary sidewalk or walkway
which shall be safe for passage and convenient for users.
   (B)   Whenever any repair, remodeling, demolition, or moving operations are
being conducted with respect to any building or structure adjacent to any
sidewalk, the permittee shall provide a pedestrian walkway as provided in
division (A) above; provided, that in addition, suitable overhead canopy shall
be provided for the protection of pedestrians from falling objects and
materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-15) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.071 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any person who shall place, leave, or erect, or cause to be placed, left, or
erected any encroachment or obstruction in or upon any street, alley, or
sidewalk within the village shall in all cases be liable to the village as
private persons for all injuries or damages arising therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-16) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.072 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to build, erect, use, or maintain
any fence or barrier consisting of what is known as “barbed wire,” or of which
barbed wire is a part along the line of or in or upon or along any street,
alley, or sidewalk, or through or around any public park, land, or lot.
   (B)   Where any such barbed wire is used contrary to the provisions of this
section, the same shall be removed upon written notice by the village. Any
person owning, building, or controlling such fence who shall fail to remove
such fence, or the barbed wire thereof, upon notice, shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter and upon conviction shall be fined according to §
152.999
(Prior Code, § 7-2-17) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.073 EXHIBITIONS, PARADES, PUBLIC SPEAKING; INTERFERING WITH PASSAGE UPON
PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any public
street, alley, or sidewalk within the village for the purpose of, or to give or
cause to be given in any show window or in or upon any premises immediately
abutting upon any public street, alley, or sidewalk, any exhibition, show,
performance, game, amusement, parade, or public speaking, which is designed or
intended to or which in fact does collect or attract a sufficient number of
persons to interfere with the passage of the public along such street, alley,
or sidewalk.
   (B)   Participants. Any person participating in any such exhibition, parade,
public speaking, and the like shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
section.
   (C)   Discontinuance. If such exhibition, parade, public speaking, and the
like results in the collection or attraction of a sufficient number of persons
to interfere with passage of the public along such public way, any member of
the Police Department shall have the power and it shall be his, her, or their
duty to enter such premises and cause such exhibition, and the like to be
discontinued forthwith, and to cause any performer, figure, apparatus, or other
thing of any nature whatsoever engaged in or used in or about such exhibition,
and the like to be removed from such premises forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.074 PEANUT AND CANDY STANDS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or expose for sale from any
stand, cart, or wagon erected or placed upon any street, alley, or sidewalk
within the village any candies, peanuts, or the like without having first
obtained a license to so do as provided in §§
110.01 through
110.04.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-20) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.075 NEWSPAPER OR PERIODICAL STANDS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use sidewalks within the
village for the sale of newspapers or other periodicals, except those carried
on the person or sold from stands to be located on the curb line and not to
exceed a depth of four feet and a width of six feet along the line of the curb.
Such stands shall not exceed five feet in height.
   (B)   No such newspaper stands shall be maintained or operated unless the
owner thereof shall have first obtained a license from the village as provided
in §§
110.01 through
110.04. The village shall not issue any such license unless the party making
application shall have the consent in writing of the abutting owner, occupant,
or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-21) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076 HAULING AND THROWING OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   (A)   Whoever shall haul any hay, straw, ashes, dirt, filth, or other
offensive matter along or across any street, alley, or other public place
within the village and permit or suffer any part thereof to escape from any
wagon or vehicle in which the same is being hauled or conveyed and fall and
remain upon any such place, shall be fined as per §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-22)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever shall throw, place, or leave or cause to be thrown,
placed or left any ashes, dirt, filth, rubbish, slops, or any obstruction or
encumbrance in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place
within this village, shall be fined according to §
152.999 and every day that such ashes or other matter so remains after notice
to remove the same by the President or any police officer shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever shall throw, place, or deposit any paper, rags, fruit
peelings, or other offensive matter or thing in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place within this village shall be fined according to
§
152.999
(Prior Code, § 7-2-23)
(Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.077 GLASS AND SIMILAR INJURIOUS MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, or leave, or to
cause to be thrown, deposited, or left, upon any street, alley, or sidewalk
within the village any glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, cans, or any other
substance likely to injure any person, animal, or vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person who throws or drops, or permits to
be thrown or dropped, upon any street, alley, or sidewalk any glass, and the
like or other injurious substance to immediately remove the same or cause it to
be removed.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any person or firm removing a wrecked or
damaged vehicle from any street, alley, or sidewalk to remove any glass, and
the like or other injurious substance dropped thereupon from such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-24) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.078 GATES AND DOORS, SWINGING OVER SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, maintain, or operate any gate or door opening
or swinging upon or over any sidewalk, unless such gate or door is so hung as
to be self-shutting.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-25) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.079 AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or operate any
awning, unless the same shall be at least eight feet above the sidewalk level,
in the clear, including all curtain drops, nor shall the same be supported by
any posts, rods, or braces extending below a height of eight feet above the
sidewalk level. See 65 ILCS 5/11-80-14; power of village to regulate and
prevent awnings over sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-26) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.080 CELLAR DOORS, OPENINGS IN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Every cellar door, basement entrance, or other like aperture or
opening over any vault of cistern or coal-hole, and every well, ditch, or other
like pit or hole on or adjoining any sidewalk within the village shall be
covered with a substantial grate or plate, and the construction of all such
vaults and coal-holes under the public ways shall be subject to the direction
and supervision of the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave open or permit to be left
open any such grate or plate over any cellar, vault, and the like without
securing or protecting the same, so as to endanger the safety of persons or
animals passing thereupon.
   (C)   Such grates or plates as provided for in division (A) above must be
made of steel or iron having a rough surface and rabbited into or made flush
with the sidewalk. No portion or feature of such cover shall project above or
form a depression below the finished surface of the sidewalk in which such
cover is placed. Such covers shall be capable of supporting a load of not less
than 300 pounds per square foot of area. Provided, that no sidewalk to
accommodate cellars or vaults beneath shall be constructed without a permit
therefor issued by the Board of Trustees, and all such work shall be performed
to the satisfaction of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-27) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 OBJECT ON WINDOWSILL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill,
railing, or balcony top or porch, or any other projection from any house or
other building within the village any flower pot, wooden box, bowl, pitcher, or
other article or thing whatsoever, unless the same shall be securely and firmly
fastened or protected so as to render it impossible for any such abject to fall
into any street, alley, or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-28) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.082 TREES; PLANTING, TRIMMING.
   (A)   No trees or bushes shall be planted on berms.
   (B)   Any person owning or maintaining any trees or shrubs extending upon or
across any sidewalk or public way between the property line and the curb line
shall keep the same trimmed.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-29) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.083 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FREE OF SNOW AND ICE.
   Every owner or occupant of any dwelling house or other building, or
proprietor or lessee of any enclosed lot or premises, and every person having
the charge or control of any church, hall, or public building within the
village shall, during the winter season whenever there is a fall of snow, and
by 10:00 a.m. on every morning thereafter, clear the sidewalks in front of or
adjoining such house, building, or premises from snow and ice, and keep the
same conveniently free therefrom. In case the snow and ice are so congealed as
not to be removed without difficulty or injury to the pavement, such person
shall strew the same with ashes, sand, salt, or sawdust; and shall in addition
at all times keep such sidewalks clear and free from dirt, filth, weeds, or
other obstructions so as to allow pedestrians the safe and unobstructed use of
the same; and every owner, occupant, or other person aforesaid who shall permit
or allow such sidewalks to be or remain covered with snow, or other
obstructions, contrary to the provisions of this section, shall be deemed
guilty of maintaining a nuisance; provided, however, that no person shall be
obliged to clear any such sidewalk on Sunday or during the continuance of any
snow storm.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-30) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.084 ALLEYS AND GUTTERS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, occupying, or in control of any
lot or parcel of land adjoining any public or private alley within the village
to keep the same clean and in an unoffensive condition, and also to keep the
gutter in front of such premises free from filth or other offensive matter that
may prevent the free flow of water therein.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-31) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.085 ANIMALS ON SIDEWALKS OR LAWNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, ride, or drive any horse, cow,
mule, or other like animal upon, over or across any sidewalk or lawn, within
the curb line of any sidewalk within the village, except at the entrance to
such building or lot, where no suitable crossing is provided; or for any person
to permit any such animal, or any vehicle attached thereto, to be or remain
upon any such sidewalk or lawn.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-32) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.086 DRAINS ACROSS SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee or occupant of any building or
premises to permit water to fall or drain from any such building or premises
owned, occupied or controlled by him, her, or them so as to spread over or
across any sidewalk adjoining the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-33) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.087 PAINTING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to put paint upon any sidewalk within
the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-34) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.088 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any public sidewalks within
the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-35) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.089 BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to ride any bicycle on any sidewalk
within the village, except where specifically permitted or required by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-36) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.090 DRIVEWAY ACROSS CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or maintain an entrance or
driveway for horses or vehicles from the paved street into his, her, or their
premises crossing the curb. All such driveways from public streets into private
premises shall be made by placing curbing on each side of such driveway, with
rounded corners.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-37) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 TIRES WITH ROUGH, SHARP, OR UNEVEN EDGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain over or across
any street, alley, or sidewalk within the village any tractor, road roller,
steam shovel, concrete mixer, excavating machine, traction engineer, or other
vehicle of which any tire is worn or is not smooth or has sharp, uneven
surfaces, cleats, spikes, or projections of any kind attached thereto, or which
has a tire of less than three inches in width that will cause damage to the
road or pavement.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-38) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.092 MIXING MORTAR ON PAVED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix mortar or to deposit or drop the
same on any paved street, alley or sidewalk within the village. Whosoever shall
wilfully violate the provisions of this section, or who shall fail or neglect
to remove within 24 hours any mortar accidentally dropped upon any such paved
street, alley, or sidewalk, upon notice from the village, shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-39) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.093 BURNING MATERIAL ON STREETS.
   No leaves or any other material shall be burned on blacktop or oil-base
streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-40) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.094 DESTRUCTION OF STREET SIGNS, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, deface, scratch, climb, or in
any other manner injure, attempt to deface or alter the direction of any street
sign or traffic-control device within the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-41) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.095 STAKES ON PAVEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive iron or other stakes in any
brick, stone, asphalt, concrete, or other pavement within the village, except
as otherwise expressly permitted by the village or provided for by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-42) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 DEFECTIVE OR DANGEROUS SIDEWALKS.
   Every sidewalk in the village which is so much worn or out of repair as to
endanger the safety of persons passing over the same, is hereby declared to be
a nuisance; and any person who shall hereafter suffer or permit such nuisance
to exist in front of or adjoining premises owned by him, her, or them shall be
subject to a penalty.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-43) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.097 ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS SIDEWALKS
   The owner or occupant of any lot or premises, where any holes or loose
planks or other defects are permitted or allowed to be and remain in and about
the sidewalks in front of or adjacent to his, her, or their premises, as
referred to in §
152.096 hereof, is hereby required to repair such defects and abate such
nuisances without delay; and if any person shall recover any judgment against
the village because of injury resulting from such defects or nuisance, the
owner or occupant of the premises where such injury was sustained shall be
liable in an action of debt, for the full amount of the damages and costs so
covered against the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-44) (Ord. 4-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense.
CHAPTER 153: TREES AND SHRUBBERY
Section
   
153.01   Planting and removal; permits required
   
153.02   Injury
   
153.03   Attaching advertisements or notices
   
153.04   Regulations for dangerous trees; duty of owner
   
153.05   Wire attachment; permission required
   
153.06   Gas pipe maintenance
   
153.07   Excavations
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PLANTING AND REMOVAL; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Planting permits. It is unlawful to plant any tree, shrub, or bush in
any public street, parkway, or other public place without having secured a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and
shall be referred by him, her, or them to the Village Board applicable
committee before issuance. All trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed
subject to the direction and approval of the Village Board.
   (B)   Removal permits. It is unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or
shrub in any such public place without having secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall be referred
to the Village Board before issuance.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 INJURY.
   It is unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted or growing in any such
public place.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 ATTACHING ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any tree or
shrub in any such public place.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 REGULATIONS FOR DANGEROUS TREES; DUTY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with
traffic or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of
the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall
cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The village, through its authorized agents, may trim any such tree or
shrub or remove any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or
danger to traffic or passage shall be done away with.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 WIRE ATTACHMENT; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any
public street, parkway, or other public place without the permission of the
Village Board.
   (B)   Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets,
alleys, or other public places shall, in the absence of provision in the
franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away
from any trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and shall
keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed so
that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and
trees by their contact.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 GAS PIPE MAINTENANCE.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the village, shall keep
such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees
or shrubs.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub wherever possible.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   County regulations adopted
   
154.02   Approval of plans required
   
154.03   Plat of subdivision
   
154.04   Standards and specifications of design
   
154.05   Minimum requirements
   
154.06   Water and sewer connection fees
Dedications or Cash Contributions
   
154.20   Dedication of land or cash contributions
   
154.21   Criteria for land dedication
   
154.22   Applicability and determination
   
154.23   Density formula
   
154.24   Topography and grading of site
   
154.25   Construction of improvements on sites
   
154.26   Maintenance of dedicated land
   
154.27   Annual review of requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   Subdivision requirements shall conform to those set forth in the LaSalle
County’s “Subdivision Regulation Ordinance” as adopted April 9, 2009, and as
amended from time to time, which are hereby expressly adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 73-10, passed 10-22-1973)
§ 154.02 APPROVAL OF PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Approval. No land shall hereafter be subdivided and no street or other
public space shall hereafter be laid out within the village until the plan or
plans of such subdivision or street or other public space shall have been
submitted to and approved by the Board of Trustees. Such approval must be in
writing or stamped on such plan or plans.
   (B)   Improvements. No improvements such as water supply, drainage, sewage,
sewage disposal, gas service, electrical service or lighting, or grading,
paving, or surfacing of the streets shall hereafter be made within any such
subdivision, by any owner or his, her, or their agent or by any public service
corporation at the request of such owner or his, her, or their agent, until the
plan for the subdivision and also the plans for such improvements have been
formally approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Conformity. Such approval shall not be given in any instance
hereinabove named unless all of the plans and specifications and all the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Copy of plat. Any person hereafter subdividing any piece or parcel of
land, block, lot, or sublot or any part thereof in the village shall make a map
or a plat thereof, and before recording the same in the County Recorder’s
office, shall submit it with a duplicate thereof to the Board of Trustees for
approval or rejection. If approved, such approval shall be certified thereon
and signed by the President and attested by the Clerk; and no such map or plat
shall be valid or entitled to record until it shall have been approved as
aforesaid. No lot or tract or parcel of land within such subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given, until such subdivision has been formally approved.
   (B)   Improvements. No such plat of subdivision shall be approved unless all
streets or sidewalk pavements, and water and sewer mains have been installed or
provision has been made to ensure such installation and that there shall be
submitted to the Board of Trustees completed plans and specifications, prepared
by a registered engineer, covering the improvements and utilities described in
the subdivided plat.
   (C)   Custody of plat. The duplicate of such major plat shall be kept on
file with the Clerk and no map or plat shall be approved as aforesaid until the
same shall have been properly certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by the
owner.
   (D)   Taxes. All taxes and assessments on property platted must be paid
before the plat shall be recorded.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS OF DESIGN.
   Design, dimensions, materials, and method of construction or improvement
shall conform to the following general requirements:
   (A)   For storm drainage, the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction” adopted by the state’s Division of Highways, latest edition
thereof;
   (B)   For public sanitary sewer system and/or sewage treatment work, “Rules
and Regulations Governing the Submission of Plan Documents and the Design of
Sewage Works” adopted by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and as
amended from time to time;
   (C)   Private water supply and/or sanitary sewage systems shall comply with
the provisions of the county’s Health Department and other applicable
ordinances;
   (D)   For subgrade preparation of streets, the “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction,” latest edition thereof;
   (E)   For base course of streets, the aforementioned “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction” for Aggregate Base Course Type
B;
   (F)   For surface course of streets or bituminous surface course, Class A,
Subclass A-3, B-5, Specifications for Bituminous Concrete Dense Graded
Aggregate Type, Modified Plant Mix; or Bituminous Concrete Surface Course Class
I, latest edition thereof;
   (G)   For curb and gutters, the aforementioned specifications for road and
bridge construction; and
   (H)   For sidewalk and crosswalks, of the aforementioned “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” latest edition thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 154.05 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In general, the minimum requirements for the subdivision of land and the
laying out of streets and other public space shall be as follows.
   (A)   All plans submitted for approval shall be in triplicate, drawn to a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, and shall be clearly and neatly
drawn. Preliminary or tentative plans may be first submitted before the final
plans are prepared.
   (B)   All final plans shall show the proposed street lines, sidewalks and
sidewalk lines, lot lines, building lines, and all property or subdivision
boundaries. They shall show, in accordance with an accurate land survey, the
controlling points and lines around and within the subdivision itself and also
by distance, bearings and angles, the relation of such controlling point and
lines to the other controlling survey points within or near the village. All
survey monuments shall be indicated and there shall be at least one permanent
monument placed at each property corner of the subdivided area at least one at
each street intersection. Such monuments shall be placed when the surveys are
made and shall consist of one inch iron pipe driven at least two feet under the
ground and permanently imbedded in concrete. Sufficient topography shall be
shown to indicate the natural drainage and the probable finish grade of
streets. All existing and proposed streets and alleys and other public spaces
shall be shown, with the width and type of pavement or surfacing, and all other
important features. Sufficient information shall be drawn to scale on the plans
to indicate the relation of the proposed streets and other public spaces to the
present street system of the village and also the official Village Plan, when
and after such Village Plan has been adopted.
   (C)   The dimensions of all lots and subdivisions and resubdivisions of lots
shall be shown.
   (D)   The proposed use of each lot, or group of lots, or subdivisions shall
be indicated.
   (E)   The north point and scale shall be shown and the names and addresses
of the petitioner and of the engineer or surveyor shall be given on each plan.
   (F)   Whenever improvements are proposed within any such subdivision or in
any such street or other public space, detailed plans, profiles, and at least
outlined specifications of such improvements shall be likewise submitted in
triplicate. Such plans and specifications shall show or indicate every
essential detail of such improvements.
   (G)   One copy of all such plans, profiles, and specifications shall be
filed with the Village Clerk, one shall be preserved in the files of the
village and the third shall be returned to the petitioner all with the approval
or disapproval of the Board of Trustees clearly indicated.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   No subdivision shall be connected with the sewer or water mains of the
village unless there is paid to the village as assessed by the Board of
Trustees per lot per connection with the water mains and per lot per connection
with the sewer mains.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 73-10, passed 10-23-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
DEDICATIONS OR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS
§ 154.20 DEDICATION OF LAND OR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a final plat of a subdivision or of a
final plan for a planned development, each subdivider or developer is required
to dedicate land for school sites to serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of the development, or cash contribution in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both at the option of the village in accordance
with this section.
   (B)   Prior to the village granting approval for a preliminary plat of
subdivision or a preliminary plan for a planned development, the village shall
make a determination, and convey such determination to the sub divider or
developer, with concurrence from the affected school district(s), whether land,
cash in lieu of land or a combination of both shall be required.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.21 CRITERIA FOR LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Calculation of acreage. The number of students to be generated by a
subdivision or planned development shall bear directly upon the amount of land
required to be dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement
shall be determined by the following:
      (1)   The estimated number of children to be generated by the subdivision
or planned development in each school classification as determined by reference
to §
154.23; divided by
      (2)   The maximum recommended number of students to be served according
to each school classification site as determined in division (B) below;
multiplied by
      (3)   The said minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of
each school classification as stated in division (B) below; and
      (4)   The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to
have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated increased children
in each such school classification.
   (B)   School classification.
      (1)   School classification and size of school size within the village
and the unincorporated one and one-half miles of the village corporate limits
shall be determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
Classification          Maximum Number of Students Minimum Number Acres of Land
by Grades               for Each Classification    for Each School Site
                                                   Classification
Elementary school (K-5) 600                        11
Middle school           750                        28
High school             1,500                      45
 
      (2)   The number of acres required for a school site is based upon the
state’s Office of Education standards as adopted by the state’s Board of
Education as follows:
 
Classification by Grades Number of Acres Required for Site
Elementary school (K-5)  Minimum of 5 acres plus 1 acre per 100 students
Middle school            Minimum of 20 acres plus 1 acre per 100 students
High school              Minimum of 30 acres plus 1 acre per 100 students
 
   (C)   Location. The comprehensive school plan, Village Plan and/or the
standards adopted by the affected school district(s) shall be used as a
guideline in the location of sites. Additional guidelines which may be
considered in locating sites include, but are not limited to, centrality of
location within proposed development, size of subdivision, proximity of site to
other schools, parks and municipal services, topography, geology, soils, and
shape of site, accessibility of site, safety, and other environmental and use
conditions.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.22 APPLICABILITY AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Applicability use. Where the development size results in the
dedication of a school site too small to be practical or when the available
land is inappropriate for a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication required. The cash contribution in lieu of school sites shall be
made payable to the affected school district(s) and used to specifically and
uniquely benefit the residents of the development from which the contribution
was donated. Such cash contributions shall be used and collected only for:
      (1)   The acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or
future needs of children from that subdivision or development;
      (2)   The construction of new buildings;
      (3)   The construction of additions to existing school structures;
      (4)   The alteration, renovation, modification or rehabilitation of
existing school structures;
      (5)   The leasing of school facilities to meet needs when building is not
possible or feasible;
      (6)   The administrative expenses of application for disbursement, and
use of the cash contributions; and
      (7)   The purchase of real estate from the developer making the
contribution under this section for vocational training as set forth in and
under the authority of 105 ILCS 5/10-23.3 of the state’s School Code. When a
purchase is made from the contributing developer for such purposes, said
developer will transfer the site agreed upon to the purchasing school district
for a purchase price not to exceed the price that results from the application
of fair market value set forth in division (C) below to the size of the site.
   (B)   Determination of amount; method of payment. The total cash
contribution to be required shall be determined at the time the final plat a
subdivision or final plan of a planned development is approved. Prior to
execution of said final plat or plan, the developer or subdivider shall provide
the village with a receipt as proof of payment as determined, as signed by the
Chief Executive Officer, or his, her, or their duly appointed designee, of the
affected school district(s). Security for payment shall be in the form of an
irrevocable letter of credit in the amount as determined from an acceptable
banking institution or a certificate of deposit with a federally insured bank
or savings and loan association.
   (C)   Determination of fair market value of land.
      (1)   The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the “fair
market value” of so much of the land as would have been dedicated and fully
improved in accordance with minimum standards for improvement as set forth in
this subchapter. The “fair market value” of such improved land shall be
determined by the governing board of the school district(s) affected. In the
event more than one school district is affected and said school districts do
not reach agreement as to the “fair market value” of such improved land, said
school districts shall submit evidence in favor of their position to the
Village Board. Final determination of said “fair market value” shall be made by
the Village Board based upon the information submitted by the school district.
      (2)   Such “fair market value” figure shall be used in making any
calculation herein unless the subdivider or developer files a written objection
thereof. In the event of any such objection, the objecting party shall, at its
cost and by a Member of the Appraisal Institute (M.A.I.), submit an appraisal
showing the “fair market value” of the land as improved in the development or
other evidence thereof. Final determination of said “fair market value” shall
be made by the Village Board based upon the information submitted by the
subdivider or developer, and/or by other interested persons or entities.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.23 DENSITY FORMULA.
   (A)   The table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit
referenced in this section is generally indicative of projected trends in
family size for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication and acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof
unless a written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer. In
the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to said table,
he, she, or they shall submit his, her, or their own demographic study showing
the estimated population to be generated from the subdivision or planned
development and in the event, the final determination of the density formula to
be used in such calculations shall be made by the Village Board based upon such
demographic information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other
sources which my be submitted for consideration. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution, and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment fees
in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment
if necessary.
   (B)   The table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, located
in Appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein, shall be used in
connection with the provisions of the section.
   (C)   Where the subdivisions or planned development is less than 40 acres, a
school site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable school sites
without hardship on a particular developer.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.24 TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING OF SITE.
   The slope, topography, and geology of the dedicated school site as well as
its surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose. Grading on sites
dedicated shall not differ greatly from the surrounding land.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.25 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS ON SITES.
   All school sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer, and streets, (including enclosed drainage and curb
and gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision
made therefore. The sidewalks and trees normally included within the definition
of “improved” sites may be deleted due to the delay time between dedication of
any such school site and construction of school facilities thereon.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 154.26 MAINTENANCE OF DEDICATED LAND.
   Upon the proposal being accepted by the involved school districts, said
school districts shall assume the responsibility of maintaining the dedicated
land in accordance with all applicable rules and laws.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.27 ANNUAL REVIEW OF REQUIREMENTS.
   By January 1 of each year, the Regional Superintendent of Schools in
conjunction with the Village Board shall review the provisions of this
subchapter and any plans submitted by school districts concerning donations of
land, or cash contribution in lieu thereof. The County Environmental and
Development Department shall forward its findings to the Village Board.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Definitions
   
155.002   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict
   
155.003   Amendments
   
155.004   Zoning permits
   
155.005   Certificate of occupancy
Board of Appeals
   
155.020   Creation and membership
   
155.021   Jurisdiction; powers
   
155.022   Meetings
   
155.023   Orders; time limitation
Building Inspector
   
155.035   Rules
   
155.036   Records
   
155.037   Powers and duties
   
155.038   Cooperation of other officials
Districts and Boundaries
   
155.050   Districts established
   
155.051   Map of boundaries
   
155.052   Determination of boundaries
   
155.053   Annexed territory
   
155.054   Vacations
   
155.055   District restrictions
Rural District
   
155.070   Regulations established
   
155.071   Use regulations
   
155.072   Height regulations
   
155.073   Area regulations
   
155.074   Intensity of use of lot
Single-Family Dwelling District
   
155.085   Regulations established
   
155.086   Use regulations
   
155.087   Height regulations
   
155.088   Area regulations
   
155.089   Intensity of use of lot
Multiple Dwelling District
   
155.100   Regulations established
   
155.101   Use regulations
   
155.102   Parking regulations
   
155.103   Height regulations
   
155.104   Area regulations
   
155.105   Intensity of use
D Commercial District
   
155.120   Regulations established
   
155.121   Use regulations
   
155.122   Parking regulations
   
155.123   Height regulations
   
155.124   Area regulations
   
155.125   Intensity of use
E Industrial District
   
155.140   Regulations established
   
155.141   Use regulations
   
155.142   Parking regulations
   
155.143   Height regulations
   
155.144   Area regulations
   
155.145   Intensity of use
Comprehensive Parking Regulations
   
155.160   Parking regulations
   
155.161   Parking space requirements
   
155.162   Parking in required yards
Zoning Regulations
   
155.175   Application of provisions
   
155.176   Height regulations
   
155.177   Accessory buildings
   
155.178   Yard regulations; projections; open space
   
155.179   Basement residence
   
155.180   Fences
   
155.181   Temporary buildings
   
155.182   Commercial districts; limit on employees
   
155.183   Floor area regulations
Special Use Permits
   
155.195   Special uses permitted
   
155.196   Special use permit procedure
   
155.197   Special uses designated
Community Unit Plan; Development
   
155.210   Plan consideration
   
155.211   Required conditions for approval
   
155.212   Approval of plan
Nonconforming Uses
   
155.225   Nonconforming uses allowed
   
155.226   Restoration of damaged buildings
   
155.227   Discontinuance of use
   
155.228   Additions; expansions
Building Codes
   
155.240   Codes adopted
   
155.250   Building permit
   
155.260   General regulations
   
155.270   Prevailing rate of wage regulations
Trailer Coaches
   
155.285   Definitions
   
155.286   Trailer coach and trailer coach park regulations
   
155.287   Prohibited parks
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural, and the plural, the singular; the word BUILDING shall
include the word STRUCTURE; the word LOT shall include the word PLOT, and the
word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the
main building or premises.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. Agricultural activity, including forests and forest
products, harvest and management, dairy farming, livestock grazing and
pasturage, truck gardening, the raising of crops, fruit and nursery stock, fish
farms, animal kennels and fur-bearing animal farms, and the harvesting,
processing, packaging, packing, shipping, and selling of products produced on
the premises, and incidental farm occupations and uses such as machinery, farm
equipment, and domestic repair and construction, excluding commercial feed
lots.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.   See MULTIPLE DWELLING.
   BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one-half its height below-
grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purpose of height regulations,
if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes by other than a
janitor employed on the premises.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel, where compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals, are provided
for two or more persons, but not exceeding eight persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, or property, of any kind; and when separated by dividing
walls without openings, each portion of such BUILDING, so separated, shall be
deemed a separate BUILDING. A grain and a commercial storage facility is a
structure, not a BUILDING.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half its height below-grade.
   COMMERCIAL FEED LOT. An area of land devoted to raising and feeding of
livestock where the operation is not a part of a normal agricultural activity.
   DISTRICT.   Any section of the municipality for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings
are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by one family,
but excluding trailers and mobile homes whether wheels are removed or not
removed or whether permanently fixed to the ground or not permanently fixed to
the ground.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by two families.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, or hotel as herein defined.
   FILLING STATION. Any building or premises used principally for the storing,
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail of automobile fuels or oils.
   FRONTAGE. Property on one side of a street measured along the line of the
street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
not more than four motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.   A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring,
selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively
for housing four or more motor-driven vehicles.
   GRADE. 
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street, only the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining
the streets.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building.
      (4)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of a
family, residing on the premises, in connection with which there is used no
sign other than one nonilluminated nameplate attached to the building entrance
which is not more than one square foot in area; provided that no person is
employed other than a member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building used as the abiding place of more than ten persons
who are lodged with or without meals for compensation.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
   LOADING SPACE. A space on the lot accessible to an alley or a street not
less than ten feet in height.
   LODGING HOUSE.   A building where lodging only is provided for compensation
to two or more, but not exceeding eight persons, in contradistinction to hotels
open to transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building together with its accessory buildings, and uses customarily incidental
to it, including the open spaces required by this chapter and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot adjoining two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder of Deeds, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in
the office of the Recorder of Deeds.
   MUNICIPALITY. All land lying within the corporate limits of the municipality
and also all contiguous territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits and not included in any other MUNICIPALITY, as
specifically shown on the zoning district map.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of any premises contrary to the use provisions of
this chapter for the district in which the premises are located.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. An impervious surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one automobile, together with a surfaced driveway
connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and
egress of an automobile.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to adjoining property.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A stable with a capacity for not more than two horses or
mules.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable, other than a private stable with a capacity for
more than three horses or mules.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement included between the
surface of any floor, and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there
be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
   STORY, HALF.   A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A HALF-STORY containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street
purposes or subject to public easements thereof.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
complete rebuilding of the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground.
   TRAILER HOME AND MOBILE HOME. Any structure used for living, sleeping,
business, or storage purposes, whether the wheels are removed or not removed or
whether permanently fixed to the ground or not permanently fixed to the ground
or whether used as a permanent living facility or not used as a permanent
living facility.
   TRAILER PARK OR MOBILE PARK. An area containing one or more trailers or
mobile homes designed or intended to be used as a living facility of one or
more families.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the
purposes of determining the width of a side YARD, the depth of a front YARD or
the depth of a rear YARD, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line
and the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projection thereof, other than steps, unenclosed
balconies and unenclosed porches.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps, unenclosed
balconies, or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite
end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.002 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE, AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter is enacted for the purpose of securing adequate
light, pure air, and safety from fire and other dangers; conserving the taxable
values of land and buildings throughout the municipality; lessening or avoiding
congestion in the public streets; and promoting the public health, safety,
comfort, morals, and welfare.
   (B)   Interpretation and conflict. In interpreting and applying the
provisions of this chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by this chapter to
interfere with nor abrogate or annul any ordinances, rules, regulations, or
permits, previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law
relating to the use of buildings or premises, and likewise not in conflict with
the chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate
or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, except
that if this chapter imposes a greater restriction, this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.003 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality may from time to time amend this chapter in the
manner prescribed by the statutes of the state. No such amendment shall be made
until it shall have been referred to the Planning Commission and a report
received from said Commission upon the effect of said amendment upon the
municipality and the welfare of the inhabitants thereof.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold one public hearing upon such
amendment as required by law and is hereby designated as the body to hold such
hearings. If no report is received from the Planning Commission in 60 days, it
may be assumed that said Commission has approved the amendment.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.004 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. It shall not be lawful to construct, structurally alter,
remove, or demolish, or to commence the construction, structural alteration,
removal, or demolition of a building or structure without first filing with the
Building Inspector an application in writing and obtaining a formal permit.
   (B)   Application, form. An application for a permit shall be submitted in
such form as the Building Inspector may prescribe. Such application shall be
made by the owner or lessee, or agent of either, or the architect, engineer, or
builder employed in connection with the proposed work. If such application is
made by a person other than the owner in fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly
verified affidavit of the owner in fee or the person making the application
that the proposed work is authorized by the owner in fee and that the person
making the application is authorized to make such application.
      (1)   Contents. Such application shall contain the full names and
addresses of the applicant and of the owner, and, if the owner is a corporate
body, of its responsible officers. Such application shall describe briefly the
proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be required by
the Building Inspector for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work.
      (2)   Plans. Application for permits shall be accompanied by such
drawings of the proposed work, drawn to scale, including floor plans, sections,
elevations, and structural details, as the Building Inspector may require.
      (3)   Plat diagram. There may also be filed a plat diagram in a form and
size suitable for filing permanently with the permit record, drawn to scale,
with all dimensions figured, showing accurately the size and exact location of
all proposed new construction.
      (4)   Amendments. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the filing of
amendments to an application or to a plan or other record accompanying same, at
any time before the completion of the work for which the permit was sought.
Such amendments, after approval, shall be filed with and be deemed a part of
the original application.
   (C)   Exemptions from requirement. Nothing in this chapter shall require
changes in the plans, construction or designated use of a building for which a
lawful permit has been heretofore issued or which has been otherwise lawfully
authorized, and the construction of which shall have been actually begun within
90 days after this chapter becomes effective and which entire building shall be
completed, as authorized, within two years thereafter.
   (D)   Action on application.
      (1)   Examination, actions. It shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector to examine applications for permits within a reasonable time after
filing. If, after examination, he, she, or they finds no objection to the same
and it appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, he, she, or they shall approve such application
and issue a permit for the proposed work as soon as practicable. If his, her,
or their examination reveals otherwise, he, she, or they will reject such
application, noting his, her, or their findings in a report to be attached to
the application and delivering a copy to the applicant.
      (2)   Approval in part. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the Building Inspector from issuing a permit for the construction of
part of a building or structure before the entire plans and detailed statements
of said building or structure have been submitted or approved, if adequate
plans and detailed statements have been presented for the same and have been
found to comply with this chapter.
   (E)   Conditions of the permit.
      (1)   All work performed under a permit issued by the Building Inspector
shall conform to the approved application and plans, and approved amendments
thereof.
      (2)   The location of all new construction as shown on the approved plat
diagram or an approved amendment thereof, shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or
plat of which a plat diagram has been filed and has been used as the basis for
a permit, unless a revised plat diagram showing the proposed change in
conditions shall have been filed and approved; provided that this shall not
apply when the lot is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening or
other public improvement.
   (F)   Issuance; signature. Every permit issued by the Building Inspector
under the provisions of this chapter shall have a signature affixed thereto;
but this shall not prevent him, her, or them from authorizing a subordinate to
affix such signature.
   (G)   Time limitation. A permit under which no work is commenced within six
months after issuance shall expire by limitation.
   (H)   Posting.
      (1)   A copy of the permit shall be kept on the premises open to public
inspection during the prosecution of the work and until the completion of the
same.
      (2)   The Building Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall be given at least 12 hours’ notice of
the starting of work under a permit.
   (I)   Revocation. The Building Inspector may revoke a permit of approval
issued under the provisions of this chapter in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application of
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.005 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Change of use or occupancy. Subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter no change in the use or occupancy of land, nor any change of use
or occupancy in an existing building other than for single-family dwelling
purposes, shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose
until a certificate of occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies
with all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Nonconforming use. A certificate of occupancy shall be required of
all nonconforming uses of land or buildings created at the time of passage of
this chapter. Application for such certificate of occupancy for nonconforming
uses shall be filed with the Building Inspector by the owner or lessee of the
land or building occupied by such nonconforming use within one year from the
effective date of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector
to issue a certificate of occupancy for nonconforming use, and failure of the
Building Inspector to issue such certificate of occupancy for nonconforming use
shall be considered evidence that such nonconforming use did not exist at the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Records maintained. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be
kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector, and copies shall be
furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
land or a building affected by such certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 155.020 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Board of Appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word
BOARD when used in these sections shall be construed to mean the Board of
Appeals.
   (B)   The said Board shall consist of three members appointed by the
municipality.
   (C)   The members of said Board shall serve respectively for the following
terms or until their respective successors are appointed and qualified; one for
one year, one for two years and one for three years; and three years each for
those following the first three appointed.
   (D)   One of the members of said Board shall be designated by the
municipality, as Chairperson of said Board and shall hold his, her, or their
said office as Chairperson until his, her, or their successor is appointed.
Such Chairperson, or in his, her, or their absence the acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (E)   The municipality shall have the power to remove any member of said
Board for cause and after a public hearing.
   (F)   Vacancies upon said Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of
the member whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided for the
appointment of such member.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.021 JURISDICTION; POWERS.
   (A)   General authority. 
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Building Inspector. It
shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter.
      (2)   The Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises, and to that end the Board shall also have all the powers of the
office from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   The members of the Board of Appeals shall also be deemed members of
the Planning Commission and shall hear and decide all matters referred to the
Planning Commission in the village code.
   (B)   Variances. When a property owner shows that a strict application of
the terms of this chapter relating to the use, construction, or alteration of
buildings or structures or the use of land imposes upon him, her, or them
practical difficulties or particular hardship, then the Board may make such
variations of the strict application of the terms of this chapter as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the Board is satisfied under
the evidence heard before it that a granting of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant but is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the
Comprehensive Plan by this chapter created and set forth in the following
instances:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
      (2)   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been destroyed or partially destroyed by fire or act of God where the Board
shall find some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the
nonconforming use, and in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary
function is to continue a monopoly;
      (3)   To permit the erection and use of a building or the use of premises
in any location for a public service company for public utility purposes which
the Board deems necessary for public convenience and public service
corporation’s welfare. Electric distribution centers, and gas regulating
centers of a public utility company may be located in any E Industrial
District, but such facilities may be located in any other districts only after
obtaining permission provided for in this section;
      (4)   To make a variance where, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings, or condition of a specific piece of property, or by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property
of record, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions the strict
application of any provisions of this chapter would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property and amount to a practical confiscation of property as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner, providing such relief
would be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the Comprehensive
Plan as established by the regulations and provisions contracted in this
chapter;
      (5)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street layout
actually on ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing the
several districts which map is made a part of this chapter;
      (6)   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to this
chapter, the Board shall, before making any variations from this chapter in a
specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, or unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets, or increase the danger of fire or endanger
the public safety, or unreasonably diminish or impair established property
values within the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public
health, safety, comfort, morals, or welfare of the inhabitants of the
municipality. The concurring vote of two members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Building Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which
it is authorized by this chapter to render decision, or to effect any variance;
and
      (7)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning code, such power and
authority being reserved to the Village Board.
   (C)   Appeals; hearings. 
      (1)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person or by
any officer, department, board, or bureau of the municipality affected by a
decision of the Building Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within such time
as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing with
the Building Inspector and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, her, or them that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his, her, or their opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by
the Board of Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
Building Inspector and on due cause shown.
      (3)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
   (D)   Hearings; notice. The Board shall make no recommendation except in a
specific case and after a public hearing conducted by the Board. A notice of
the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a paper of
general circulation in the municipality at least once, not more than 30 or less
than 15 days previous to the hearing. Such notice shall contain the particular
address or location of the property for which the variation or other ruling by
the Board is sought as well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal,
and of what the proposed variance consists.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994; Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 155.022 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as such Board may determine.
   (B)   All hearings conducted by said Board shall be open to the public.
   (C)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official
actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a
requested variation, and the reasons for recommending or denying such variation
shall be specified.
   (D)   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be filed
immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (E)   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with
this chapter or with state statutes in such case made and provided.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.023 ORDERS; TIME LIMITATION.
   (A)   No order of the Board permitting the erection or alteration of a
building shall be valid for a period longer than six months, unless a building
permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such
erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with
the terms of such permit.
   (B)   No order of the Board permitting a use of a building or premises shall
be valid for a period longer than six months, unless such is established within
such period; provided, however, that where such use permitted is dependent upon
the erection or alteration of a building, such order shall continue in force
and effect if a building permit for said erection or alteration is obtained
within such period and such erection or alteration is started and proceeds to
completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 155.035 RULES.
   For carrying into effect its provisions, the Building Inspector may adopt
rules consistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.036 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall keep careful and comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He, she, or they shall
retain on file copies of all papers in connection with building work so long as
any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence.
   (B)   All such records shall be open to public inspection at reasonable
hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.037 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce
this chapter. The Building Inspector shall receive applications required by
this chapter, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He, she,
or they shall examine premises for which permits have been issued, and shall
make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of this chapter are
complied with. He, she, or they shall, when requested by the Village Board or
when the interests of the municipality so require, make investigations in
connection with matters referred to in this chapter and render written reports
on the same. For the purpose of enforcing compliance with law, he, she, or they
shall issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   Inspections. Inspections shall be made by the Building Inspector or a
duly appointed assistant.
   (C)   Reports. The Building Inspector shall make a report to the Village
Board once each month, or more often if requested, including statements of
permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
   (D)   Area of jurisdiction. Anything to the contrary in this chapter
notwithstanding, the duties given the Building Inspector which pertain to
territory not within the municipality, but within contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits, shall be exercised by
Building Inspectors.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.038 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building Inspector may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his, her, or their duties, the assistance and
cooperation of the Village Engineer in fixing grades, of the Village Attorney
in prosecuting violations, and of the other municipal officials.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 155.050 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the locations of trades,
industries, and the location of buildings designed for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings; to regulate and limit the
intensity of the use of lots; and to regulate and determine the area of yards,
courts, and other open spaces within the surrounding buildings, the
municipality is hereby divided into districts of which there shall be five in
number known as:
 
A Single-Family Dwelling District
B Rural District
C Multiple Dwelling District
D Commercial District
E Industrial District
 
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.051 MAP OF BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map made a part of this
chapter, which map is designated as the “District Map.” The district map and
all the notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part
of this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the district map and
all the notations, references, and other information shown thereon were all
fully set forth or described herein, which district map is below:
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.052 DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map referred to herein and made a part of this
chapter by reference, the following rules apply.
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the map referred to herein and
made a part of this chapter by reference are bounded approximately by street or
alley lines, the street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the
district.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the map referred to herein and made a part of this
chapter by reference are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines
shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts unless the boundaries
are otherwise indicated on the map.
   (C)   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map
referred to herein and made a part of this chapter by reference shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.053 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the municipality shall be
considered as being in the A Single-Family Dwelling District until otherwise
changed by ordinance.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.054 VACATIONS.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by official
action by the Village Board, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.055 DISTRICT RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No person shall use any premises for a use other than those permitted
in the district in which such premises are located;
   (B)   No building shall be erected unless it shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which the premises are located;
   (C)   No building shall be enlarged, structurally altered, or moved unless
such enlargement, structural alteration, or moving shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which the premises are located; and
   (D)   Every building hereafter erected, enlarged, or structurally altered
shall be located on a lot as therein defined and in no case shall there be more
than one main building on a lot. Land that is part of one lot and that is not
in excess of the area requirements for that lot shall not be used to satisfy
the area requirements of any other lot.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
RURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.070 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to
in this subchapter are the B Rural District Regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.071 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Agricultural activity;
   (B)   Church;
   (C)   Golf course except miniature courses or driving range;
   (D)   Greenhouse or nursery;
   (E)   Home occupations;
   (F)   Park or forest preserve;
   (G)   Public school, elementary and high, or private school, having a
curriculum equivalent to a public elementary or public high school and having
no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping purposes;
   (H)   Railroad rights-of-way, including a strip of land with tracks and
auxiliary facilities for track operations;
   (I)   Roadside stand for the display or sale of agricultural products raised
on the premises;
   (J)   Single-family dwelling;
   (K)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of construction work;
   (L)   Temporary signs pertaining to the lease, hire, or sale of a building
or premises on which such sign is located; and
   (M)   Accessory buildings and uses, including customary church bulletin
boards or identification signs not exceeding 30 square feet in area pertaining
to the lease, hire, or sale of the premises upon which same are located.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.072 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed four stories or 60 feet in height; and no structure
shall exceed 150 feet in height.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.073 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard having a depth from the center
of the road of not less than: 70 feet if on a village highway; 100 feet if on a
county highway; and 175 feet if on a state highway.
      (1)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets
there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a lot of record need not be reduced to
less than 50 feet, except where necessary to provide a yard along the side
street with a depth of not less than 20 feet. No accessory building shall
project beyond the front yard line on either street.
   (B)   Side yard. Except as provided in §
155.162, there shall be a side yard on each side of a building having a width
of not less than 20 feet or 15% of the average width of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller; provided that no side yard shall have a width of less than
ten feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Except as hereinafter provided in §
155.162, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 50 feet or
30% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.074 INTENSITY OF USE OF LOT.
   Every residential lot shall have an area of not less than 43,560 square
feet, and an average width of not less than 150 feet, except that if a lot of
record has less area or width than herein required, such lot may be used for
any purpose permitted in this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 155.085 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the A Single-Family Dwelling
District regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.086 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Camper trailers, provided they are unoccupied and are located only
temporarily on the premises, but not more than one on a lot;
   (B)   Church or public building bulletin board not exceeding 40 square feet
in area and temporary signs not exceeding six square feet in area appertaining
to the lease, hire, or sale of a building or premises;
   (C)   Churches, but any church that is constructed on a new site shall
provide off-street parking space upon the lot or within 200 feet thereof, which
space is adequate to accommodate one car for every ten persons for which
seating is provided in the main auditorium of the church exclusive of the
seating capacity of Sunday school and other special rooms;
   (D)   Home occupations;
   (E)   Municipally-owned or operated parks and playgrounds;
   (F)   Nurseries and truck gardening;
   (G)   Public schools, elementary and high, and educational institutions
having a curriculum the same as ordinarily given in public schools;
   (H)   Single-family dwelling;
   (I)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work; and
   (J)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the above uses,
not involving the conduct of a business, including a private garage. Any
accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall be located
not less than 60 feet from the front lot line. Accessory uses shall not include
the raising of poultry, pets, or livestock for strictly commercial purposes or
on a scale that would be objectionable because of noise or odor to surrounding
residences.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.087 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as provided in Chapter 4 hereof.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.088 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than 30 feet, except as provided in §
155.162.
      (1)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (2)   Street and the front yard line shall be separately computed for
accessory buildings except that the buildable width for accessory buildings
shall not be reduced to less than 22 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. Except as provided in §
155.162, there shall be a side yard on each side of a building having a width
of not less than seven feet or 10% of the average width of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller, provided that no side yard shall have a width of less than
four feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Except as hereinafter provided in §
155.162, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 40 feet or
20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.089 INTENSITY OF USE OF LOT.
   Every residential lot shall have an area of not less than 7,500 square feet,
and an average width of not less than 60 feet, except that if a lot of record
has less area or width than herein required and has been duly recorded prior to
the date of the passage of this chapter, such lot may be used for any purpose
permitted in this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 155.100 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to in this subchapter, are the C Multiple Dwelling
District regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.101 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the A Single-Family Dwelling Districts;
   (B)   Boarding and lodging houses;
   (C)   Multiple dwellings;
   (D)   Nonprofit hospitals and clinics, but not animal hospitals, animal
clinics or mental hospitals;
   (E)   Nonprofit religious, educational, and philanthropic institutions, but
not penal or mental treatment institutions;
   (F)   Private clubs, fraternities, sororities, and lodges, excepting those,
the chief activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business;
and
   (G)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any above uses,
including storage garage where the lot is occupied by multiple dwelling,
hospital, or institutional building. If a storage garage is not part of the
main building, it shall be located no less than 60 feet from the front lot
line.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.102 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Whenever a structure is erected, converted, or structurally altered for a
multiple dwelling purpose, two parking spaces shall be provided on the lot for
each dwelling unit in the structure.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.103 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height regulations are the same as those in the A Single-Family Dwelling
Districts.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.104 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. The front yard regulations are the same as those in the A
Single-Family Dwelling Districts.
   (B)   Side yard. The side yard regulations are the same as those in the A
Single-Family Dwelling Districts.
   (C)   Rear yard. Except as hereinafter provided in §
155.162, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 25 feet or
20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.105 INTENSITY OF USE.
   (A)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling must comply
with regulations described in §
155.089.
   (B)   A lot on which a multiple dwelling is erected or converted shall
contain an area of not less than 5,000 square feet per family.
   (C)   When a lot has less than required for a single-family dwelling and was
of record at the time of the passage of this chapter, that lot may be used for
one single-family dwelling.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
D COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.120 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred
to in this subchapter, are the D Commercial District regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.121 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C Multiple Dwelling Districts;
   (B)   Amusement places or theaters; provided, however, that no theater shall
be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the same lot, or within
300 feet thereof, a space for off-street parking which contains an area
adequate to accommodate one automobile for every four seats in the theater;
   (C)   Bakery, employing not more than ten persons;
   (D)   Bank;
   (E)   Barber shop or beauty parlor;
   (F)   Business or commercial school or dancing or music academy;
   (G)   Catering establishment;
   (H)   Dyeing and cleaning works, employing not more than ten persons;
   (I)   Electrical repair shop;
   (J)   Filling station;
   (K)   Florist shop;
   (L)   Hospitals and clinics for animals;
   (M)   Laundry employing not more than ten persons on the premises;
   (N)   Lodge hall;
   (O)   Messenger or telegraph service station or telephone exchange;
   (P)   Nameplates and signs relating only to the name and use of the store or
premises or to services or products sold or provided on the premises but no
such signs shall exceed one square foot in area for each lineal foot of street
frontage. Such signs shall be attached to the structure with no portion of the
sign projecting more than one foot into a required yard and, if illuminated,
shall not be of the flashing or intermittent type;
   (Q)   Office;
   (R)   Painting and decorating shop;
   (S)   Parking lots;
   (T)   Photographer’s or artist’s studio;
   (U)   Plumbing shop;
   (V)   Public garage and automobile sales room;
   (W)   Recreation building;
   (X)   Restaurant;
   (Y)   Sales or show room;
   (Z)   Shoe repair shop;
   (AA)   Store or shop for the conduct of a retail business;
   (BB)   Tailor shop;
   (CC)   Tinsmithing shop;
   (DD)   Tire repair shop;
   (EE)   Tourist and trailer camps;
   (FF)   Undertaking establishment; and
   (GG)   Used car sales or storage lots.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.122 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The parking regulations for dwellings are the same as those in the C
Multiple Dwelling District.
Commercial buildings shall provide permanent parking spaces on the lot in the
ratio of one parking space for each 200 square feet of floor space in the
building; provided, however, that two or more establishments may provide
necessary parking spaces upon a single parcel of land within the D Commercial
District and within 300 feet of the establishments.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.123 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as otherwise provided in Chapter 4 hereof.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.124 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. 
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 20 feet
except as provided in §
155.162.
      (2)   Where lots have double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (3)   The front yard on the side street side of a corner lot shall be ten
feet, except that the buildable width of a lot of record shall not be reduced
to less than 28 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. 
      (1)   The side yard regulations for dwellings are the same as those in
the A Single-Family Dwelling Districts.
      (2)   In all other cases, a side yard is not required except on the side
of a lot adjoining an A, B, or C District, in which case there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet; provided, however, that if a side yard is
provided, it shall not be less than three feet in width.
   (C)   Rear yard. No rear yard shall be required except where a lot abuts an
A, B, or C District, in which event there shall be a rear yard of not less than
20 feet.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.125 INTENSITY OF USE.
   The intensity of use regulations shall apply to living facilities above
stores or other commercial uses as well as to residential buildings and shall
be the same as those of the C Multiple Dwelling District.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
E INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.140 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this chapter, are the E Industrial District
Regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.141 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any building or premises may be used for any purpose not in conflict
with any ordinance of the municipality regulating nuisances; provided, however,
that no building or occupancy permit shall be issued for any of the following
uses until and unless the location of such use shall have been approved by the
Village Board:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of paris manufacture;
      (3)   Distillation of bones;
      (4)   Explosives manufacture or storage;
      (5)   Fat rendering;
      (6)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (7)   Garbage, offal, or dead animals, reduction or dumping;
      (8)   Gas manufacture;
      (9)   Glue manufacture;
      (10)   Petroleum, or its products, refining of;
      (11)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores;
      (12)   Stockyards or slaughter of animals; and
      (13)   Wholesale storage of gasoline.
   (B)   In the E Industrial District, no building shall be erected or
converted for dwelling purposes; provided, however, that dwelling quarters may
be established in connection with any industrial establishment for watchmen and
caretakers employed upon the premises.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.142 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Buildings hereafter erected shall provide off-street loading spaces in the
following instances and in the following ratios.
   (A)   Buildings occupying corner lots and having a first floor area of 5,000
square feet or more and a total floor area of less than 40,000 square feet
shall provide one off-street loading space.
   (B)   Buildings occupying interior lots having a first floor area of 6,000
square feet or more and total floor area of less than 40,000 square feet shall
provide one off-street loading space.
   (C)   All buildings having a total floor area of between 40,000 and 80,000
square feet shall provide two off-street loading spaces.
   (D)   All buildings having a total floor area in excess of 80,000 square
feet shall provide one additional loading space for each 40,000 square feet or
fraction thereof in excess of 80,000 square feet.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.143 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed six stories or 75 feet in height; no structure
shall exceed 150 feet in height.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.144 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. 
      (1)   Where all the frontage on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets is located in the E Industrial District, no front yard
should be required. Where the frontage on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets is located partly in an A, B, C, or D District, the front
yard requirements of the A, B, C, or D District shall apply to the E Industrial
District.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
the front yard requirements of division (A)(1) above shall apply to each street
side of the corner lot, except that the buildable width of a lot of record at
the time of the passage of this chapter shall not be reduced to less than 28
feet.
      (3)   No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line on
either street.
   (B)   Side yard. The side yard regulations are the same as the D Commercial
District.
   (C)   Rear yard. The rear yard regulations are the same as in the D
Commercial District.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.145 INTENSITY OF USE.
   The intensity of use regulations are the same as in the D Commercial
District.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
COMPREHENSIVE PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 155.160 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   In any district, except as noted below, whenever a building is erected,
converted, enlarged, or structurally altered for a use described in this
chapter, or the use of a building or premises is hereafter changed to a use
prescribed in this chapter, then off-street parking shall be provided as
follows:
Type of Building or Premises Number of Spaces Required
Type of
Building or Number of Spaces Required
Premises
Apartment   2 spaces on the lot for each apartment
Churches    1    space on the lot for every 70 square feet in the main auditorium;
and places  provided, however, that if the building in existence and occupied on the
of assembly effective date hereof and is located in an A Single-Family Dwelling
            District, then no off-street parking shall be required
            1 space on the lot for each 1,500 square feet or portion thereof of
Home        enclosed floor area within the home that is devoted to the home
occupation  occupation. Whenever a building is devoted to more than one type of use,
            the off-street parking requirements shall be computed separately for each
            use
Industrial  1 space on the lot for every 1,500 square feet devoted to the use
use
Local
business
and place
of assembly
(including
community
building    1 space on the lot for each 200 square feet in the sales area
and a
public
building
when used
for a
proprietary
function)
Motel       1 space on the lot for each rental unit
Multiple-
family      2 spaces on the lot for each dwelling unit
dwelling
            1 space on the lot for each 200 square feet of enclosed floor area
Office      devoted to the use, excluding hallways, stairways, restrooms, maintenance
            areas, and other comparable areas
Rooming
house and   1 space on the lot for every 2 beds
hospital
Single-
family      2 spaces on the lot
dwelling
Warehouse   1 space on the lot for every 2 employees on any one shift
 
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.161 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever off-street parking is required by this chapter, each space
shall be at least eight feet three inches in width and at least 20 feet in
length, exclusive of driveways, and shall be connected with a street or public
alley by a driveway affording adequate ingress and egress.
   (B)   A parking space may be either open or enclosed.
   (C)   Parking spaces and driveways shall be paved or surfaced with an all-
weather material consisting of at least six inches of compacted gravel or
crushed stone.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.162 PARKING IN REQUIRED YARDS.
   When off-street parking, whether voluntary or required, is provided on a lot
which a building is situated, then the parking spaces may be situated only in
the rear yard and in that portion of the side yard not constituting a required
side yard; except, that in the E Industrial District, when the building is set
back at least 25 feet from the front lot line and then parking spaces may also
be situated in the portion of the front yard not constituting a required front
yard.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 155.175 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.176 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Public, semi-private buildings. Public, semi-private, or public
service buildings, hospitals, institutions, or schools, when permitted in a
district, may be erected to a height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and
temples may be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set
back from each yard line at least one foot for each two feet of additional
building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in
which the building is located.
   (B)   Chimneys, towers. Chimneys, church steeples, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lots, tanks,
water towers, ornamental towers and spires, wireless towers, grain elevators,
or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height not exceeding
100 feet in accordance with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the
municipality.
   (C)   Storage buildings. Buildings that are to be used for storage purposes
only may exceed the maximum number of stories that are permitted in the
district in which they are located, but such buildings shall not exceed the
number of feet of building height permitted in such districts.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.177 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings may be built in a rear yard but such accessory
buildings shall not occupy more than 30 feet to any side or rear lot line,
except that when a garage is entered from an alley it shall not be located
closer than ten feet to an alley line and except that a garage that is located
closer than ten feet to the main building shall provide the side and the rear
yards required for the main building.
   (B)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used for dwelling purposes other than by domestic servants
employed entirely on the premises.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.178 YARD REGULATIONS; PROJECTIONS; OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Required yards. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the
sky, unobstructed, except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except
for the ordinary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental
features projecting not to exceed 12 inches.
   (B)   Fire escapes in rear yard. Open lattice-enclosed fire escapes,
fireproof outside stairways, and balconies opening upon fire towers, and the
ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into the required rear yard may be
permitted by the Building Inspector for a distance of not more than three and
one-half feet where the same are so placed as not to obstruct light and
ventilation.
   (C)   Porches in front yard. An open unenclosed porch or paved terrace may
project into the required front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet. An
enclosed vestibule containing not more than 40 square feet may project into the
required front yard for a distance not to exceed four feet.
   (D)   Terraces. Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms, and ornamental
features which do not extend more than three feet above the floor level of the
ground (first) story may project into a required yard, provided these
projections be distant at least two feet from the adjacent side lot line.
   (E)   Multiple-family dwelling side yard. For the purposes of the side yard
regulations, a two- family dwelling, or a multiple dwelling, shall be
considered as one building occupying one foot.
   (F)   Commercial buildings on single lot. Where a lot or tract is used for
commercial or industrial purpose, more than one main building may be located
upon the lot or tract but only when such buildings conform to all open space
requirements around the lot for the district in which the lot or tract is
located.
   (G)   Residential, institutional. In the event that a lot is to be occupied
by a group of two or more related buildings to be used for residential,
institutional, or hotel purposes, there may be more than one main building on
the lot; provided, however, that open space between buildings that are parallel
or within 45 degrees of being parallel, shall have a minimum dimension of 20
feet for one-story buildings, 30 feet for two-story buildings and 40 feet for
three-story buildings.
   (H)   Minimum open-space width. Where an open space is more than 50%
surrounded by a building, the minimum width of the open space shall be at least
20 feet for one-story buildings, 30 feet for two-story buildings and 40 feet
for three-story buildings.
   (I)   Dwellings above other uses, side yard. No side yards are required
where dwelling units are erected above commercial and industrial structures.
   (J)   Front yard adjustments. The front yards heretofore established shall
be adjusted in the following cases:
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have observed (with a
variation of five feet or less) a front yard greater in depth than herein
required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street than the
front yard so established by the existing buildings; or
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have not observed a
front yard as described above, then:
         (a)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard
shall be a line drawn between the two closest front corners of the adjacent
buildings on the two sides; or
         (b)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of an existing building on one side only, such building may be
erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.179 BASEMENT RESIDENCE.
   No basement or cellar shall be occupied for residential purposes until the
remainder of the building has been substantially completed.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.180 FENCES.
   Fences, not greater than ten inches in width, may be erected to a height of
six feet, except within 30 feet of the intersection of two street lines.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.181 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings that are used in conjunction with construction work only
may be permitted in any district during the period that the building is being
constructed, but such temporary buildings shall be removed upon completion of
the construction work.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.182 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS; LIMIT ON EMPLOYEES.
   Whenever the number of employees is restricted in connection with any use in
the commercial districts, such maximum number applies only to employees engaged
in processing or treating materials or products on the premises and not to
employees engaged in selling, clerical, delivery, or similar activities.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.183 FLOOR AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A single-family dwelling shall have a minimum floor area of 900 square
feet.
   (B)   Every two-family dwelling shall have a minimum floor area of 1,500
square feet.
   (C)   Every multiple dwelling shall have a minimum floor area of 1,800
square feet.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 155.195 SPECIAL USES PERMITTED.
   The Village Board may, by special permit after public hearing, authorize the
location of any of the following buildings or uses in a district from which
they are prohibited by this chapter, and may also permit an increase in the
height of any such buildings.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.196 SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Before issuance of any special permit for any of the buildings or uses as
listed in §
155.197, the Village Board shall refer the proposed application to the Planning
Commission, which Commission shall be given 30 days in which to make a report
regarding the effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the
neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters
pertaining to the public health, public safety, and general welfare. No action
shall be taken upon any application for a proposed building or use herein
referred to until and unless the report of the Planning Commission has been
filed; provided, however, that if no report is received from the Planning
Commission within 30 days, it shall be assumed that approval of the application
has been given by the said Commission.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.197 SPECIAL USES DESIGNATED.
   Special uses designated are as follows:
   (A)   Any public building erected or used by any department of the
municipality, school district, county, state or federal government;
   (B)   Private schools, including nursery, pre-kindergarten, kindergarten,
play, and special schools;
   (C)   Hospitals, clinics and institutions, including educational, religious
and philanthropic institutions and convalescent homes; provided, however, that
such buildings occupy not over 40% of the total area of the lot and will not
have any serious and depreciating effect upon the value of the surrounding
property; and provided further, that the buildings shall be set back from all
yard lines a distance of not less than one foot for each foot of building
height, and that adequate off-street parking space be provided;
   (D)   Cemetery;
   (E)   Community building or recreation field;
   (F)   Airport or landing field;
   (G)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (H)   Outdoor theaters, but only in the D and E Districts;
   (I)   Private recreational uses where buildings do not cover more than 5% of
the area of the site;
   (J)   Riding stables and private stables;
   (K)   Roadside stands and recreational activities for temporary or
seasonable periods;
   (L)   Radio towers and broadcasting stations;
   (M)   Extraction of sand, gravel, coal, and other raw materials;
   (N)   Parking lots on land not more than 300 feet from the boundary of any
commercial or business districts;
   (O)   Clubs, and semi-public buildings;
   (P)   Commercial feed lot;
   (Q)   Automobile service station, motel, restaurant, garage, farm implement
sales and services, and food stores;
   (R)   Undertaking establishment;
   (S)   Offices, but only in the C District; and
   (T)   Short-term rental units in districts zoned A (Single-Family Dwelling
District), but only along Main Street and not on parcels sharing a common
boundary with a school. No more than three special use permits for short-term
rental units to be outstanding at the same time.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994; Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-20-2023) Penalty, see §
155.999
COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN; DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.210 PLAN CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land comprising an area of not
less than three acres may submit to the Village Board a plan for the use and
development of all of the tract of land for residential purposes or for the
repair and alteration of any existing housing development on an area comprising
three acres or more.
   (B)   The development or alteration plans shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for study and report and for public hearing. If the Commission
approves the plans, they shall then be submitted to the Village Board for
consideration and approval.
   (C)   The approval and recommendations of the Commission shall be
accompanied by a report stating the reasons for approval of the application and
specific evidence and facts showing that the proposed community unit plan meets
the conditions set out herein.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.211 REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   The proposed community unit plan shall meet the following conditions:
   (A)   The property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected;
   (B)   The plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter to
promote public health, safety, morals, and general welfare;
   (C)   The buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings or multiple dwellings and the usual accessory uses such as
garages, storage space or community activities including churches;
   (D)   The average lot area per family contained in the site will not be less
than the lot area per family required in the district in which the development
is located; and
   (E)   The buildings do not exceed the height regulations of the district in
which the development is located.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.212 APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   If the Village Board approves the plans, building permits, and certificates
of occupancy may be issued even though the use of land and the location of the
buildings to be erected in the area and the yards and open spaces contemplated
by the plan do not conform in all respects to the district regulations of the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.225 NONCONFORMING USES ALLOWED.
   (A)   Except for land currently being farmed, the lawful use of land on
which no buildings exist, which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be discontinued within one year from the date of the approval of
this chapter, and the use of such land which becomes nonconforming by reason of
a subsequent change in this chapter shall also be discontinued within one year
from the date of the change.
   (B)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions hereof, and such use may be extended throughout the building,
provided no structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance,
are made therein.
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in
districts hereafter changed.
   (E)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more
restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed
to a less restricted use.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.226 RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   Any building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or the
public enemy, to the extent of more than 75% of its assessed value shall be
restored in conformity with the regulations of this chapter, except a mobile
home which is being used for living purposes when this chapter is passed may be
replaced in a single-family dwelling district if damaged as outlined above.
This exception is not intended to otherwise permit the future use of mobile
homes for living purposes in any district except in conformity with the
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.227 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of one year, the use
of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.228 ADDITIONS; EXPANSIONS.
   No existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which such building or premises is located, except
when required to do so by law or ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed or structurally altered, unless such use is changed to one
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located;
provided, however, that during the ten-year period immediately following the
passage of this chapter, nonconforming industrial uses in the E Industrial
District may be extended or enlarged by not to exceed a 50% increase in the
cubical contents of the building; and further provided, that all height and
area regulations be observed in any such extension.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
BUILDING CODES
§ 155.240 CODES ADOPTED.
   The following codes are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-3-1 to 5/1-3-6, inclusive, as amended, three copies of
said codes to be available for public inspection at all reasonable hours in the
municipal business offices:
   (A)   For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the
construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of buildings and structures, that certain Building
Code known as the National Building Code, copyrighted by the National Board of
Fire Underwriters and published in book form, being particularly the current
edition thereof;
   (B)   All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus,
or electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power, or other
electrical work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected
to, any building or structure within the limits of this municipality shall be
in conformity with the provisions set forth in the current edition of the
National Electrical Code, recommended by the American Insurance Association for
electrical wiring and apparatus;
   (C)   For the purpose of establishing minimum standards of design, materials
and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered or repaired and
to establish methods of procedure within the limits of the municipality, that
certain Plumbing Code known as the State Plumbing Code as passed by the state
Revised Statutes, and as published by the state, Department of Public Health,
Division of Sanitary Engineering, entitled “Illinois State Plumbing Code,”
current edition, 77 Ill. Admin. Code Part 890;
   (D)   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known
as the Fire Prevention Code, current edition, recommended by the American
Insurance Association; and
   (E)   Life Saving Code, current edition.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.250 BUILDING PERMIT.
   A building permit must be obtained from the municipality before any new
additions or buildings are  constructed. The fee shall be as assessed by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
33.32
§ 155.260 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any new building or addition must be at least three feet from the
owner’s lot line, including eaves.
   (B)   The same grade shall be maintained as of surrounding lots, including
landscaping.
   (C)   All new buildings and additions must maintain the same setback from
streets as surrounding buildings.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.270 PREVAILING RATE OF WAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by an Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workmen employed in any public works by the state, county,
city or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under
contract for public works, approved June 26, 1941, as amended (820 ILCS 130/
1 et seq.), the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers,
mechanics, and other workers engaged in the construction of public works coming
under the jurisdiction of this municipality is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the County area
as determined by the Department of Labor of the state as of the current year, a
copy of that determination being incorporated herein by reference. The
definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in the
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in the Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of this municipality to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the municipality this
determination of such prevailing rate of wage.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed, or file their names and addresses, requesting
copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular
class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this section
with both the Secretary of State and the Department of Labor of the state.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
TRAILER COACHES
§ 155.285 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER COACH.   Any vehicle or similar portable structure constructed so as
to permit its being used as a conveyance on a public street and so to permit
the occupancy thereof as a dwelling by one or more persons.
   TRAILER COACH PARK. An area of land on which two or more occupied trailer
coaches are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue, together with any
building, structure, or enclosure used as a part of the equipment of such park.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 155.286 TRAILER COACH AND TRAILER COACH PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any trailer coach used
for human habitation upon any plot of ground in the municipality, except in a
licensed trailer park.
   (B)   House trailer or mobile home parks shall be provided with service
buildings and suitable facilities for bathing, laundry, and sanitation, as
required by state and county health regulations, and such buildings and
facilities shall be accessible to all house trailers and mobile homes by means
of hard surfaced walks and/or hard surfaced access drives.
   (C)   House trailer or mobile home spaces shall abut upon a hard surfaced
highway or accessway of not less than 34 feet in width.
   (D)   The county’s mobile home ordinance shall be considered to be the
minimum requirements for the establishment and operation of a house trailer or
mobile home park.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.287 PROHIBITED PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain, or operate a
trailer coach park within the  corporate limits of the municipality without
complying with the county and state statutes and regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100
for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the proper authorities
of the municipality, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
maintenance, or use, or to enjoin, restrain, correct, or abate such violation,
to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
   (C)   Any person guilty of a violation of §
155.250 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 and shall be
subject to payment of all costs to enjoin the construction.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
155.285 through
155.287 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-17-1994)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizes use of village-owned property, streets, and
2018-3   5-15-2018   alleys for construction, improvement, and extension of
                     waterworks facilities
                     A Master License Agreement for Fiber Optic Installation (a
2023-03  5-4-2023    "MLAFOI"), as attached to Ord. 2023-03 as Exhibit I is
                     adopted into this code by reference as if laid out in full
                     herein
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                          Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.11                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.15                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                           10.04
5 ILCS 115                            110.16
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                  30.02,
                                      31.146
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.                31.130
5 ILCS 430/5-15                       31.130
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40        31.130
5 ILCS 430/50-5                       31.130
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                    31.130
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                    31.130
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.                 110.17
35 ILCS 105/3-5(11)                   110.17
35 ILCS 115/3-5(7)                    110.16
35 ILCS 115/9                         110.16
35 ILCS 120                           110.15
35 ILCS 120/2                         110.15
35 ILCS 120/3                         110.15
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.                 33.47,
                                      33.48
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.               33.30
50 ILCS 45/1                          33.02
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                 32.17
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.                 151.03
65 ILCS 5                             50.45,
                                      152.079
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                       10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                       10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                     10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5                     131.27
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1 to 5/1-3-6            155.240
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15- 25(a)               31.005
65 ILCS 5/7-4-1                       30.11
65 ILCS 5/8-3-14                      33.45
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6                      110.17
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24(a)                  33.50
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24(b)                  33.51
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                      32.02
105 ILCS 5/10-23.3                    154.22
220 ILCS 5/16-102                     151.24
220 ILCS 5/16- 108.5(I)               151.24
225 ILCS 320/3(1)                     51.06
225 ILCS 340/4                        151.21
225 ILCS 605                          111.28
225 ILCS 605/1                        111.25
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                 92.04
235 ILCS 5                            113.04
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                113.19
235 ILCS 5/6-20                       131.27
235 ILCS 5/8-6                        131.27
410 ILCS 130                          131.47
410 ILCS 625/4                        111.56
410 ILCS 705                          131.47
410 ILCS 705                          114.01
415 ILCS 5/4                          51.06
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                  90.36
510 ILCS 5/13                         90.99
625 ILCS 5                            70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-101.05                   93.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188                      10.02
625 ILCS 5/2-601                      70.15
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.              70.19
625 ILCS 5/6-101                      70.15
625 ILCS 5/6-303                      70.15
625 ILCS 5/7-601                      72.11
625 ILCS 5/7-602                      72.11
625 ILCS 5/11-501                     70.15
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1                  72.02
625 ILCS 5/12-709                     72.04
625 ILCS 5/18c-7201                   151.24
720 ILCS 5/Art. 16                    70.15
720 ILCS 5/8-1 et seq.                131.27
720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.                131.27
720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq., Art. 11(20) 131.27
720 ILCS 5/11-20 et seq.              131.27
720 ILCS 5/11-21 et seq.              131.27
720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/20-2 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/24-1                       70.15
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                     70.15
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                     70.15
720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.               131.27
720 ILCS 5/31-1                       70.15
720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.               131.27
                                      70.15,
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.                131.27,
                                      131.46
720 ILCS 550/3                        131.45
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.              70.15,
                                      131.27
720 ILCS 600/2                        131.45
735 ILCS 5/1-101                      90.39
735 ILCS 5/3-101                      70.17
735 ILCS 5/3-104                      70.17
775 ILCS 5/2                          31.131
775 ILCS 5/6-101                      31.132
805 ILCS 5                            113.21
805 ILCS 105                          113.04
815 ILCS 333/1 et seq.                10.02
820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.                155.270
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
1-5-1              31.020
1-5-2              31.021
1-5-3              31.022
1-5-4              31.023
1-5-5              31.022
1-5-6              31.022
1-5-7              31.022
1-5-8              31.022
1-5-9              31.022
1-5-10             31.022
1-5-11             31.022
1-5-13             31.025
1-6-1              30.01
1-6-2              30.02
1-6-3              30.03
1-6-4              30.04
1-6-5              30.05
1-6-6              30.06
1-6-7              30.07
1-6-8              30.08
1-6-9              30.09
1-6-10             30.10
1-6-12             30.10
1-6-13             30.11
1-6-14             30.12
1-6-15             30.13
1-6-18             30.14
1-7-1              31.001
1-7-2              31.002
1-7-3              31.003
1-7-4              31.004
1-7-5              31.005
1-8-1              31.040
1-8-2              31.041
1-8-3              31.042
1-8-4              31.042
1-8-5              31.042
1-8-7              31.042
1-8-8              31.042
1-8-10             31.042
1-8-11             31.042
1-8-12             31.042
1-8-14             31.042
1-8-15             31.043
1-9-1              31.055
1-9-2              31.056
1-9-3              31.057
1-9-4              31.057
1-9-5              31.057
1-9-6              31.057
1-9-7              31.057
1-9-8              31.057
1-9-9              31.057
1-9-10             31.057
1-9-11             31.058
1-10-1             31.070
1-10-2             31.071
1-10-3             31.072
1-10-4             31.073
1-10-5             31.074
1-10-6             31.075
1-10-7             31.076
1-10-8             31.077
1-11-1             32.15
1-11-2             32.16
1-13-1             11.01
1-13-2             11.02
2-1-1              110.01
2-1-2              110.02
2-1-3              110.03
2-1-4              110.04
2-3-1              111.01
2-3-2              111.02
2-3-3              111.03
2-3-4              111.04
2-3-5              111.05
2-3-6              111.06
2-3-7              111.07
2-5-1              110.15
2-5-2              110.16
2-5-3              110.17
4-1-1              154.01
4-1-2              154.02
4-1-3              154.03
4-1-4              154.04
4-1-5              154.05
4-1-6              154.06
5-1-1-1            130.01
5-1-1-2            130.02
5-1-2-3            130.16
5-1-2-4            130.17
5-1-2-5            130.18
5-1-2-6            130.19
5-1-3-1            131.01
5-1-3-2            131.02
5-1-3-3            131.03
5-1-3-4            131.04
5-1-3-5            131.05
5-1-3-6            131.06
5-1-3-7            131.07
5-1-3-8            131.08
5-1-3-10           131.09
5-1-3-12           131.10
5-1-3-14           131.99
5-1-4-1            132.01
5-1-4-2            132.02
5-1-4-3            132.03
5-1-5-4            132.16
5-1-6-1            133.01
5-1-7-1            133.02
5-1-7-2            133.02
5-1-7-3            133.02
5-1-7-4            133.02
6-1-2              Ch. 74 Sch. I
6-1-3              70.02
6-1-4              70.03
6-1-5              Ch. 74 Sch. II
6-1-6              70.04
6-2-10             72.30
6-2-11             72.31
6-2-12             72.32
6-2-17             Ch. 74 Sch. III
6-2-29             72.33
6-3-2              71.05
6-3-3              71.02
6-3-4              71.02
6-3-5              71.02
6-3-6              71.09
6-3-7              71.10
6-3-9              71.11
6-3-10             71.12
6-3-11             71.13
6-3-12             71.13
6-3-13             71.14
6-4-1              73.01
6-4-2              73.02
6-4-3              73.03
6-4-4              73.04
6-4-5              73.05
6-5-1              70.99
6-5-2              70.99
6-5-3              71.15
6-34-030           71.06
6-34-040           71.07
6-34-050           71.08
7-1-1              50.01
7-1-2              50.01
7-1-3              50.03
7-1-4              50.04
7-1-6              50.05
7-1-7              50.06
7-1-8              50.07
7-1-10             50.07
7-1-11             50.20
7-1-13             50.21
7-1-14             50.21
7-1-15             50.22
7-1-16             50.22
7-1-17             50.23
7-1-18             50.24
7-1-19             50.25
7-1-20             50.26
7-1-21             50.26
7-1-22             50.27
7-1-23             50.28
7-1-24             50.29
7-1-26             50.46
7-1-27             50.47
7-1-28             50.48
7-1-29             50.30
7-1-30             50.31
7-1-31             50.32
7-1-32             50.32
7-1-33             50.07
7-1-34             50.06
7-1-35             50.33
7-1-36             50.99
7-2-1              152.055
7-2-2              152.056
7-2-3              152.057
7-2-4              152.058
7-2-5              152.059
7-2-6              152.060
7-2-7              152.061
7-2-8              152.062
7-2-9              152.063
7-2-10             152.064,
                   152.065
7-2-11             152.066
7-2-12             152.067
7-2-13             152.068
7-2-14             152.069
7-2-15             152.070
7-2-16             152.071
7-2-17             152.072
7-2-18             152.073
7-2-20             152.074
7-2-21             152.075
7-2-22             152.076
7-2-23             152.076
7-2-24             152.077
7-2-25             152.078
7-2-26             152.079
7-2-27             152.080
7-2-28             152.081
7-2-29             152.082
7-2-30             152.083
7-2-31             152.084
7-2-32             152.085
7-2-33             152.086
7-2-34             152.087
7-2-35             152.088
7-2-36             152.089
7-2-37             152.090
7-2-38             152.091
7-2-39             152.092
7-2-40             152.093
7-2-41             152.094
7-2-42             152.095
7-2-43             152.096
7-2-44             152.097
8-5-1              52.01
8-5-2              52.02
8-5-3              52.03
8-5-4              52.04
8-5-5              52.05
8-5-6              52.06
8-5-7              52.07
8-5-8              52.08
8-5-9              52.09
8-5-10             52.10
8-5-11             52.11,
                   52.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
                     11.01,
                     11.02,
                     30.01 -
                     30.03,
                     30.05 -
                     30.07,
                     30.09 -
                     30.15,
                     31.020 -
                     31.023,
                     31.025,
                     31.040 -
                     31.042,
                     31.055 -
                     31.057,
4-1910   - -         32.15,
                     52.01,
                     52.08 -
                     52.10,
                     110.01 -
                     110.04,
                     130.01,
                     131.03,
                     131.10, 131.12,
                     152.055,
                     152.057 -
                     152.060,
                     152.062 -
                     152.067,
                     152.072,
                     152.095,
                     152.096
4-1976   - -         50.29
9-1959   - -         50.21,
                     50.22
                     50.20,
                     50.22,
-        2-6-1946    50.28,
                     50.29,
                     50.99
-        8-7-1946    52.07
-        2-14-1952   71.13
                     71.02,
                     71.09,
-        3-14-1952   71.13,
                     71.15,
                     73.05
67-6     9-5-1967    110.16
2A       5-29-1973   52.99
73-10    10-22-1973  154.01,
                     154.06
74-7     - - 1974    110.17
-        11-1-1974   110.16
                     71.05,
                     71.09,
                     71.12-
                     71.14,
-        - - 1976    71.99,
                     72.33,
                     Ch. 74 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74 Sch. II,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     111.20 -
76-4     8-17-1976   111.29,
                     111.99
80-3     9-2-1980    110.15 -
                     110.17
80-4     10-7-1980   50.21
81-2     6-2-1981    50.21
                     31.004,
81-3     6-2-1981    31.024,
                     31.077
                     116.01 -
81-5     9-1-1981    116.06,
                     116.99
93-1     4-19-1993   132.15
93-3     7-19-1993   31.042
                     155.001 -
                     155.005,
                     155.020 -
                     155.023,
                     155.035 -
                     155.038,
                     155.050 -
                     155.055,
                     155.070 -
                     155.074,
                     155.085 -
                     155.089,
                     155.100 -
                     155.105,
                     155.120 -
                     155.125,
                     155.140 -
94-1     1-17-1994   155.145,
                     155.160 -
                     155.162,
                     155.175 -
                     155.183,
                     155.195 -
                     155.197,
                     155.210 -
                     155.212,
                     155.225 -
                     155.228,
                     155.240,
                     155.250,
                     155.260,
                     155.270,
                     155.285 -
                     155.287,
                     155.999
                     33.01 -
01-01    1-15-2001   33.15,
                     33.99
2002-02  3-19-2002   10.99
2003-08  2-18-2003   Ch. 75 Sch. I
2004-02  7-13-2004   31.130
2004-04  7-21-2004   32.01
                     90.01 -
                     90.04,
2004-06  9-21-2004   90.20 -
                     90.24,
                     90.99
                     71.01,
                     71.03 -
2004-07  9-21-2004   71.05,
                     71.99,
                     Ch. 74 Sch. V
                     95.01 -
                     95.20,
                     95.99,
                     152.001 -
2004-08  9-21-2004   152.021,
                     152.035 -
                     152.043,
                     153.01 -
                     153.07,
                     153.99
                     53.04,
                     53.20 -
                     53.25,
                     53.99,
                     91.01 -
                     91.06,
                     91.20 -
                     91.24,
                     91.50 -
                     91.53,
                     91.99,
                     94.01,
2004-09  9-21-2004   94.02,
                     94.15 -
                     94.23,
                     94.35 -
                     94.47,
                     94.99,
                     95.35,
                     95.99,
                     115.01 -
                     115.06,
                     115.20 -
                     115.32,
                     115.99
2004-10  10-19-2004  33.30
2005-01  4-19-2005   33.31
04-2005  11-15-2005  154.20 -
                     154.27
                     96.01 -
2005-06  12-20-2005  96.03,
                     96.99
2005-07  12-20-2005  31.131,
                     31.132
                     112.01 -
2006-04  9-19-2006   112.08,
                     112.99
                     113.01 -
                     113.04,
                     113.15 -
2008     3-18-2008   113.29,
                     113.40 -
                     113.55,
                     113.99
2008-03  5-20-2008   50.27
2009-02  2-17-2009   Ch. 75 Sch. I
2009-03  4-21-2009   Ch. 74 Sch. IV
2009-07  7-21-2009   31.145,
                     31.146
2009-10  10-20-2009  150.35 -
                     150.42
2010-04  8-17-2010   150.38,
                     150.41
                     90.35 -
2010-05  8-17-2010   90.40,
                     90.99
2011-04  7-19-2011   32.17
2012-02  4-17-2012   70.15 -
                     70.19
2012-05  6-19-2012   32.17
2013-01  4-16-2013   31.058
2014-4   9-16-2014   Ch. 75 Sch. I
                     51.01 -
2015-01  2-17-2015   51.09,
                     51.99
                     111.55 -
2015-04  9-15-2015   111.58,
                     111.99
2016-01  1-19-2016   31.115 -
                     31.117
2016-09  8-23-2016   50.45
                     150.01 -
2017-01  1-17-2017   150.03,
                     150.99
                     112.01 -
2017-02  1-17-2017   112.08,
                     112.99
                     92.01 -
                     92.06,
2017-07  10-17-2017  92.20 -
                     92.27,
                     92.99
                     150.15 -
2018-01  2-20-2018   150.20,
                     150.99
                     93.01 -
2018-02  4-17-2018   93.18,
                     93.99
2018-3   5-15-2018   TSO Table I
                     151.01 -
2018-06  7-17-2018   151.05,
                     151.20 -
                     151.27
                     53.01 -
2018-08  8-21-2018   53.05,
                     53.99
2019-03  6-18-2019   70.01
                     72.01 -
2019-05  7-16-2019   72.17,
                     72.99
                     114.01 -
2019-09  11-19-2019  114.03,
                     114.99
                     113.01 -
                     113.04,
                     113.15 -
2019-10  11-19-2019  113.29,
                     113.40 -
                     113.55,
                     113.99
                     30.08,
2020-09  1-17-2020   31.024,
                     31.043
2020-01  1-21-2020   131.45 -
                     131.47
                     131.45 -
2020-02  2-18-2020   131.47,
                     131.99
2020-03  3-17-2020   32.02
                     131.25 -
2020-07  9-15-2020   131.30,
                     131.99
2020-08  10-20-2020  94.01,
                     94.99
                     30.08,
2020-09  11-17-2020  31.024,
                     31.043
2020-11  12-15-2020  94.01,
                     94.99
                     111.40 -
2021-01  2-16-2021   111.42,
                     111.99
                     72.01 -
2021-02  4-20-2021   72.17,
                     72.99
                     72.01 -
2021-05  10-19-2021  72.17,
                     72.99
2022-04  10-18-2022  30.08
                     33.45 -
2022-05  10-18-2022  33.49,
                     33.99
                     33.32,
2023-01  2-21-2023   50.29,
                     50.34
                     33.32,
                     150.01,
2023-02  3-21-2023   150.50 -
                     150.53,
                     150.99
2023-03  5-4-2023    152.012,
                     TSO Table I
2023-04  6-20-2023   155.021,
                     155.197
2023-05  6-20-2023   117.01 -
                     117.09
2023-07  10-17-2023  71.02
2024-01  2-20-2024   33.32
2024-02  3-19-2024   53.02
2024-03  4-16-2024   33.32
2024-05  9-17-2024   33.32
                     31.024,
2024-06  9-17-2024   31.043,
                     31.058
                     53.01,
2024-08  12-17-2024  53.02,
                     53.04 -
                     53.08
2025-02  7-15-2025   33.50 -
                     33.53
                    
 
