VILLAGE CODE
of
GRANT PARK, ILLINOIS
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 0-2-23-1, passed February 16, 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Grant Park, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 0-2-23-1, passed February 16, 2023. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF GRANT PARK,
ILLINOIS
SECTION ONE: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Grant Park, Illinois, prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc., under the direction of the governing body of the Village, containing all
ordinances of a general nature in effect at the time of such codification,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official Code and Law
of the Village as enacted by the President and Board of Trustees.
SECTION TWO: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding to or deleting
provisions of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline
and is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such
new provision shall become effective upon the passage of the Ordinance and the
insertion of the proper replacement pages in the copies of the Code, three (3)
copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk,
certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times
that said office is regularly open.
SECTION THREE: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision,
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
Governing Body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official Village Code.
All ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond
ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall
continue in full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a
provision of the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included
in this Official Village Code.
SECTION FOUR: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the Law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this Section shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of the Village Code of Grant Park, Illinois.
SECTION FIVE: The Village Clerk shall, at the time of the passage of this
Ordinance Code Book, see that the ordinances and the records of the Village,
being repealed, and the Constitution and Ordinance records of the year 1899,
shall be bound and preserved and held under key for the future observation and
education of the people of the Village of Grant Park, Illinois. These documents
and records shall be declared of historical value.
SECTION SIX: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
SECTION SEVEN: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the President and Board
of Trustees of the Village.
   PASSED THIS            DAY OF           , 1994.
   APPROVED THIS            DAY OF           , 1994.
   FOR THE VILLAGE OF GRANT PARK, ILLINOIS.
   By    
   H. Russell Hilgert
   Mayor
ATTEST:
   
   David F. Dillman
   Village Clerk
   MEMBERS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
         
   Ron Bleyle   Richard Boicken
         
   Fred Kurth   Dave Ritter
         
   Gary Ritter   Lee Theesfeld
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Official Village Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Village President   5
Board Of Trustees   6
Village Clerk   7
Village Treasurer   8
Officers And Employees   9
Ordinance Enactment   10
Finance   11
Elections   12
Public Works Contracts   13
Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association   14
Administrative Adjudication   15
Ethics   16
Municipal Prosecutor   17
Fair Housing   18
Reimbursement Of Travel, Meal, And Lodging Expenses   19
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of the Village of
Grant Park. This Village Code of Ordinances shall be known and cited as the
Grant Park Municipal Code, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board
of Trustees and shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for said Village
Board of Trustees. Any reference to the number of any Section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate Chapter and Title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the Section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal document.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and
Section number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to the codifiers
prior to the next regularly scheduled board meeting. Said ordinance or
ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in the
Village Code. Such additions or amendments shall be uploaded to the village
code website as not to effect normal business operations. Printed copies,
quantity as determined by the village board and / or village president, shall
be properly identified and shall be inserted the master copy held at the
village hall.
Additional copies may be circulated or held in reserve for additional code
books outstanding. (Ord. O-9-22-1, 10-3-2022)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each Section of this Code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent to Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability of Employers and Agents: When the provisions of any Section
of this Village Code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth.
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any Section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this Village Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as
being still in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from
which are excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: Tax
levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries
and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the Village; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or
by virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this Village Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code.
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any Section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each Section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more Sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any Section of this Village Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this Village Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any Section of this Village Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
content may be repugnant thereto.
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: The word "agent" as used in this Code shall mean a person acting on
behalf of another.
BOARD: The word "Board", unless otherwise indicated, shall mean the Board of
Trustees of the Village.
CODE: The word "Code" shall mean the Municipal Code of Grant Park and
amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The word "County" shall mean County of Kankakee, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of Grant Park."
FEE: The word "fee" as used in this Code shall mean a sum of money charged by
the Village for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: The word "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist
which bring the act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not
require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The word "license" as used in this Code shall mean the permission
granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: The word "misdemeanor" shall mean any offense deemed a violation
of the provisions of this Code which is a lesser offense than a felony as
defined by State law.
NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: The word "nuisance" shall mean anything offensive or obnoxious to the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing
repugnant to, or creating a hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the
property of another person or to the community.
OCCUPANT: The word "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
OFFENSE: The word "offense" shall mean any act forbidden by any provision of
this Code or the omission of any act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Grant Park."
OPERATOR: The word "operator" as used in this Code shall mean the person who is
in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: The word "person" shall mean any natural individual, firm, trust,
partnership, association or corporation in his or its own capacity or as
administrator, conservator, executor, trustee, receiver or other representative
appointed by the court. Whenever the word "person" is used in any Section of
this Code prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or
associations, the word shall include the partners or members thereof, and such
word as applied to corporations shall include the officers, agents or employees
thereof who are responsible for any violation of said Section.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: The term "personal property" shall include every description
of money, goods, chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all
written instruments by which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to
property is created, acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged
or diminished and every right or interest therein.
RETAILER: The word "retailer" as used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The word "State", unless otherwise indicated, shall mean the State of
Illinois.
STREET: The word "street" shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: The word "tenant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The word "Village" shall mean the Village of Grant Park, County of
Kankakee, State of Illinois.
WHOLESALER: The words "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: The word "wilfully" when applied to the intent with which an act is
done or omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or
make the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law,
or to injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: The terms "written" or "in writing" may include printing
and any other mode of representing words and letters, but when the written
signature of any person is required by law to any official or public writing or
bond required by law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or
in case he is unable to write, by his proper mark. (1975 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several Sections of this Village Code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the Section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such Sections, nor as any part of the Section, nor
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
Sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: PENALTY:
   (A)   Violation; Fine: Whenever in this Code an act or omission is
prohibited, or declared to be unlawful, or an offense, or a violation of this
Code, or whenever in this Code the doing of an act is required, or the failure
is declared to be unlawful, or an offense, or a violation of this Code, where
no specific penalty is provided, the violation of any such provision of this
Code is hereby declared to be an offense, and shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day, or as established in
the approved fines list set forth in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Fine Schedule:
      LIST OF FINES
Violations Code Section Payment Minimum Fine Payment Maximum Fine
Violations               Code Section Payment Minimum Fine Payment Maximum Fine
Failure to register      4-4-9        $100.00 plus cost of $750.00 plus cost of
vacant lot/building                   ownership search     ownership search
Fortune telling          5-1-1        $100.00              $750.00
Hindering Village        5-1-2        100.00               750.00
employees
Killing birds            5-1-3        50.00                750.00
Littering                5-1-4        75.00                750.00
Consumption on premises  5-1-5        50.00                750.00
Drunkenness              5-1-6        50.00                750.00
Weapons restricted       5-1-7        50.00                750.00
within Village
Dangerous weapons        5-1-8        250.00               750.00
prohibited
Disturbance of the peace 5-1-9        100.00               750.00
Regulations for skates,
skateboards, and         5-1-10       25.00                750.00
bicycles
Assault, battery, and    5-1-11       100.00               750.00
affray
Disorderly conduct;      5-1-12       100.00               750.00
breach of peace
Disorderly conduct by    5-1-13       100.00               750.00
telephone
Trespassing              5-1-15       50.00                750.00
Parental responsibility  5-1-33       100.00               750.00
for acts of minors
Possession of drug       5-1-35       350.00               750.00
paraphernalia
Possession of cannabis   5-1-36       350.00               750.00
Dogs running at large    5-2-1        50.00                750.00
Weeds; nuisance          5-4-1        50.00                750.00
Height (weeds or grass)  5-4-2        50.00                750.00
Curfew                   5-5-1        75.00                750.00
Parents' responsibility  5-5-2        50.00                750.00
Abandoned vehicles       5-6-2        100.00               750.00
Leaving vehicles on      5-6-3        100.00               750.00
street
Unmanned aircraft        5-8          100.00               750.00
violation
Abandoned refrigerators  6-1-2-6      75.00                750.00
Illegal burning          6-2-4        50.00                750.00
Operation of
recreational vehicle     8-2-2        100.00               750.00
restricted
Manner of operation of   8-2-3        150.00               750.00
recreational vehicle
No standing, stopping or 8-3-1        50.00                750.00
parking where prohibited
All night parking        8-3-3        50.00                750.00
No parking during snow   8-3-5        100.00               750.00
removal
 
   (C)   In the event a fine or penalty is assessed pursuant to any provision
of this Code, a default in the payment of such fine, penalty, or any
installment thereof may be collected by any means authorized by law for the
collection of monetary judgments. The Village may retain attorneys and private
collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in the payment of
any fine or penalty imposed pursuant to this Code, or any installment thereof.
Any fees or costs incurred by the Village with respect to any attorneys or
private collection agents retained by the Village to collect any fines or
penalties imposed pursuant to any provision of this Code shall constitute a
debt due and owing the Village and shall be added to any outstanding balance
owed to the Village by the debtor. (Ord. O-4-16-4, 4-4-2016; amd. Ord. O-3-17-
5, 4-3-2017; Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017; Ord. O-10-18-1, 10-1-2018)
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code any
license previously issued him by the Village may be revoked by the court or by
the Board of Trustees. (1975 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code the Prosecuting Officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1975 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Qualifications
1-5-2: Bond
1-5-3: Executive Duties; Compensation
1-5-4: President Pro Tempore
1-5-5: Appointments
1-5-6: General Duties
1-5-7: Approval and Veto of Ordinances
1-5-8: Sign Licenses, Permits and Commissions
1-5-9: Warrants Signed by President
1-5-10: Release Prisoners
1-5-11: Tax Titles; Conveyance
1-5-12: Powers as to Litigation
1-5-13: Inspections of Records
1-5-14: Additional Powers
1-5-15: Emergency Powers
1-5-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be elected a President of the Village, who shall hold his office
for four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified; he shall
be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, and shall have resided
within the corporate limits of the Village at least one year next preceding the
election at which he is a candidate. (1975 Code)
1-5-2: BOND:
The President of the Village shall before he/she enters upon the duties of his/
her office execute a bond to the Village in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees,
conditioned as prescribed by law. (Ord., 9-19-94)
1-5-3: EXECUTIVE DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
The President of the Board of Trustees shall perform the duties and exercise
the powers conferred upon the mayor of a city.
The President shall devote such time to the duties of his office as the
faithful discharge thereof may require, and shall receive as compensation
therefor an annual salary as shall be determined from time to time by the Board
of Trustees.
The President of the Board of Trustees may exercise the same veto powers, and
with like effect, as the mayor of a city; and the Board of Trustees may pass
ordinances over such veto in like manner as a city council.
1-5-4: PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE:
During a temporary absence of the President or his inability to act, the Board
of Trustees shall elect one if its members to act as President Pro Tempore who,
during his absence or disability, shall possess the powers of the President.
1-5-5: APPOINTMENTS:
The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
shall appoint all officers of the Village whose appointments are not otherwise
provided for by Statute; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any office which
by Statute or ordinance the President is authorized to fill, he shall, at the
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees next occurring, communicate to the
Board of Trustees the name of his appointee to such office, and pending the
consent by the Board of Trustees as to such appointment, he may designate some
suitable person to discharge the duties of said office.
1-5-6: GENERAL DUTIES:
The President shall supervise the conduct of all appointed officers and see
that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective
offices; he shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made against them and
cause all their neglects or violations of duties to be promptly corrected, and
he shall, from time to time, give the Board of Trustees such information
relative to the affairs of the Village as he may deem proper and recommend to
their consideration any measure he may deem expedient, tending to the well-
being, security and improvement of the Village.
1-5-7: APPROVAL AND VETO OF ORDINANCES:
The President shall carefully inspect all ordinances passed by the Board of
Trustees and fix his official signature to such as he may approve and return
them to the Village Clerk; such ordinances as he shall not approve shall be
returned to the Board of Trustees, with his objections thereto in writing, at
the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees, occurring after the passage
thereof. Such veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations
contained in any ordinance making appropriations, or to the entire ordinance
and in case the veto only extends to a part of such ordinance, the residue
thereof shall take effect and be in force; but in case the President shall fail
to return any ordinance with his objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he
shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance and the same shall take effect
accordingly.
1-5-8: SIGN LICENSES, PERMITS AND COMMISSIONS:
The President shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits and warrants
granted, issued or ordered by the Board of Trustees or authorized by the
ordinances of the Village, except for permits provided to be issued by or under
the signature of the Health Officer or other proper officer, and may revoke any
such licenses for the causes hereinafter provided.
1-5-9: WARRANTS SIGNED BY PRESIDENT:
All warrants drawn upon the Treasurer must be signed by the President of the
Village and countersigned by the Village Clerk and must state the particular
fund to which same is chargeable and the person to whom payable, and for what
purpose the same was drawn and no money shall be otherwise paid than upon
warrants so drawn.
1-5-10: RELEASE PRISONERS:
The President may for good and sufficient reasons release any person imprisoned
for violation of any provision of this Village Code. The President shall cause
a proper record thereof to be made and shall report such release with the cause
therefor to the Board of Trustees at its first session thereafter.
1-5-11: TAX TITLES; CONVEYANCE:
Upon such terms as may be agreed upon with the consent of the Finance Committee
and the Board of Trustees, the President and Village Treasurer may sell and
convey any and all lots and parcels of land to which a title is held by the
Village under sale and conveyance for the Village taxes or assessments.
1-5-12: POWERS AS TO LITIGATION:
The President shall sign, and is hereby authorized to sign in behalf of the
Village all instruments necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense of any
or all actions brought by or against the Village, including bonds for
injunction.
1-5-13: INSPECTIONS OF RECORDS:
The President shall have power at all times to examine and inspect the books,
records and papers of any agent, employee or officer of the Village.
1-5-14: ADDITIONAL POWERS:
In addition to the above, the President shall perform all such other duties and
have all additional powers that are or may be prescribed by the laws of the
State of Illinois, or the provisions of this Village Code.
1-5-15: EMERGENCY POWERS:
The President shall be ex officio coordinator of activities in cases of
emergency resulting from any explosion, fire, flood, riot storm or other cause
requiring concerted measures for the maintenance of public peace and order, the
preservation of life and property and the relief of suffering or for any of
these purposes. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Legislative Body
1-6-2: Regular Meetings
1-6-3: Special Meetings
1-6-4: Quorum
1-6-5: Rules, Order Of Business
1-6-6: Compensation
1-6-7: Suspension Of Rules
1-6-1: LEGISLATIVE BODY:
The legislative and governing body of the village shall consist of the
president of the village and six (6) trustees, elected for a four (4) year
term, according to the method provided by statute, who shall possess the
qualifications for office, be elected by the legal voters of the municipality,
take the oath of office and perform the duties provided by the Illinois
statutes. (1975 Code)
1-6-2: REGULAR MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the president and board of trustees shall be held on the
first and third Monday of each month at a convenient time and at the village
hall, or at such other location as the board may deem appropriate and give
public notice of at least forty eight (48) hours prior to said meeting. In case
such meeting should fall on a legal holiday, then such meeting shall be held
the following day after such legal holiday. (Ord. 2014-12, 8-18-2014; amd. Ord.
O-10-22-1, 10-17-2022)
1-6-3: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings may be held at any time on call of the president or any two
(2) or more trustees; such call shall be in writing, duly signed, and shall be
presented to the clerk, who shall proceed immediately to cause notice of the
same to be served upon the president and trustees in person or by registered
letter, and such notice shall describe in brief the nature or object of the
call. (1975 Code)
1-6-4: QUORUM:
A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, and may compel
the attendance of absentees under such penalties as may be prescribed by
ordinance. (1975 Code)
1-6-5: RULES, ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The following rules of order for conduct of village business by the president
and board of trustees of the village are hereby adopted:
   Rule 1.    The president shall, if present, take the chair at the hour
appointed for the meeting of the board; if he be not present the board of
trustees shall elect a temporary chairman from among themselves who shall act
in his stead. The meeting being called to order, the roll of members shall be
called, and if a quorum be present the presiding officer shall cause the
journal of the last preceding meeting or meetings to be read unless such
reading be dispensed with by vote of the board.
   Rule 2.    The president shall preserve order and decorum. He may speak to
points of order in preference to any member and shall decide points of order
subject to an appeal of the board of trustees by any two (2) members, on which
appeal no member shall speak more than once unless by leave of the board.
   Rule 3.    Every question shall be distinctly stated by the president before
it is open for debate. Every motion shall be reduced to writing if the
president or any member shall so demand.
   Rule 4.    The president may call on any member to perform the duties of
chairman; no such substitution, however, shall extend beyond the adjournment of
the particular meeting.
   Rule 5.    Every member previous to speaking to any question shall audibly
address the presiding officer as "Mr. President" or "Mr. Mayor". Such member
shall not, however, speak further until he is recognized and named.
   Rule 6.    Every ordinance shall be read before the same shall be passed.
   Rule 7.    The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose and of any
resolution or motion: 1) to create any liability against the village or 2) for
the expenditures or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence
of a majority of all members elected to the village board, including the
president. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
the designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the journal
of the village board. Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the
passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any trustee, and
shall be recorded in the journal.
   Rule 8.    Every member present when a vote is taken shall vote unless
excused by the board of trustees, or unless he shall be directly interested in
the matter pending, in which case such member shall not vote. Any member
refusing to vote or passing his vote, shall be counted as voting with the
majority.
   Rule 9.    All standing committees shall consist of three (3) members and
shall be appointed by the president, and the person first named on the
committee shall be the chairman thereof. All standing committees shall be
purely advisory in nature, and shall make recommendations to the President and
Board of Trustees.
   Rule 10.    The president of the village shall be ex officio a member of all
committees. The standing committees to be appointed annually shall be as
follows:
      Finance and TIF.
      Streets, alleys and storm sewers.
      Community outreach.
      Ordinances and insurance.
      Building and grounds.
      Police.
   Rule 11.    Special committees may be appointed by the president for the
consideration of any particular question or matter. All special committees
shall be purely advisory in nature, and shall make recommendations to the
President and Board of Trustees.
   Rule 12.    All committees to whom any matter may be referred shall report
in writing if requested by any member. Minority reports may be submitted signed
by the dissenting member or members.
   Rule 13.    On the acceptance of a final report from a special committee,
such committee shall stand discharged without vote unless it be otherwise
ordered. All reports made by committees or officers of the village, all
resolutions adopted, all ordinances as presented and passed, all
communications, petitions and the like received, and, generally all papers
presented to be acted on, shall be filed and carefully preserved by the clerk.
   Rule 14.    All petitions or communications shall be addressed to the
president and board of trustees and shall be in writing and filed with the
clerk.
   Rule 15.    When a member wishes to present a communication, petition,
order, resolution or other original matter, he shall briefly state its nature
before presenting the same.
   Rule 16.    No person, except a member of the board, shall be permitted to
address the president or the board without the consent of the president.
   Rule 17.    All standing committees shall have the power in case of
emergency to correct the cause of such emergency, the cost of which shall not
exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
   Rule 18.    The order of business of this board shall be as follows:
      1.   Calling the roll of members.
      2.   Minutes of last meeting or meetings.
      3.   Public communications.
      4.   Reports of committees and officers.
      5.   Old business.
      6.   New business.
      7.   Adjournment.
   Rule 19.    The president shall decide all questions of order, and, in all
cases not covered by these rules or where they are not applicable, the board
shall be governed by parliamentary law as laid down in the current edition of
"Robert's Rules Of Order".
   Rule 20.    When a question is before the board, no motions shall be in
order but to adjourn; lay on the table; previous question; postpone
indefinitely; postpone to a certain time, to commit; and amend.
These motions shall be privileged and have precedence in the order named.
   Rule 21.    In case of the want of a quorum at any time of the village
board, a majority of the trustees present may direct the president or presiding
officer to direct any police officer to go out and notify any and all absent
members, who can be found in the village and who are not unable through
sickness to attend. After notice and request by such officer and such member
shall refuse to attend, such officer shall, without warrant, arrest such member
and bring him in.
   Rule 22.    The following rules shall apply to public communications at
village board meetings:
         (a)   Compliance: It shall be unlawful for any person to address or
attempt to address any regular or committee meeting of the board of trustees
except in compliance with this section. Public participation shall be permitted
during the following portions of a public meeting:
            (1)   Public communications.
            (2)   Public hearing.
            (3)   Invited speakers.
         (b)   Closed Sessions: Public participation shall not be permitted
during any meetings or portions of meetings which are deemed closed sessions
under the open meetings act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., as
amended.
         (c)   Limitations: The president or presiding officer may impose
reasonable limitations on public participation at public meetings, such as
barring repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial, or inappropriate comments or
testimony. The president or presiding officer shall have the authority to halt
or suspend the public communications/hearing to a later date due to the
duration of the public forum/hearing or lack of compliance with this section.
In addition to those portions of a meeting set aside for public participation,
the president or presiding officer shall have the discretion to permit public
comment at any other time during a meeting, subject to the provisions of this
section. Public comment during the public communications portion of a meeting
shall be limited to agenda items for the meeting.
         (d)   Persons Wishing To Speak: Persons wishing to speak during the
public communications portion of a village board or committee meeting shall
sign in before stating their name, address and agenda item on which they wish
to speak. All speakers shall comply with this section, and rulings of the
presiding officer.
         (e)   Speakers: Speakers shall identify themselves and provide their
current address before beginning their comments or questions. Speakers shall
provide their comments or questions on the agenda item, and provide any
supporting documentation and/or evidence they may wish to submit. Speakers
shall refrain from engaging in debates, directing threats or personal attacks
at the president or presiding officer, board of trustees, village staff, other
speakers or members of the audience. The president or presiding officer and
board of trustees shall have no obligation to respond to any comments or
questions raised by members of the public.
         (f)   Audience: Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding,
cheering, or booing during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any speaker,
staff member, board member, president or presiding officer.
         (g)   Representative Speakers: Groups of residents should, whenever
possible, consolidate their comments and avoid repetition through the use of
representative speakers.
         (h)   Time Limit: All speakers shall limit their comments to no more
than three (3) minutes.
         (i)   Petitioner Time Limit In Event Of A Petition Presented To The
Board: The petitioner of an agenda item is a person or entity with a financial
or ownership interest in a zoning matter or other board of trustees' decision.
The petitioner may proceed with a brief presentation of the petition for no
more than ten (10) minutes, subject to:
            (1)   Speakers may comment or ask questions on the agenda item
after the presentation of the petition provided they comply with all the
applicable provisions of this section.
            (2)   The petitioner shall have no more than five (5) minutes to
reply to comments or questions. Public participation after the petitioner's
reply shall be prohibited unless the president or presiding officer directs
otherwise.
            (3)   The president or presiding officer and board of trustees may,
but need not, ask questions of the petitioner and speakers at the conclusion of
their comments.
            (4)   The board of trustees may then deliberate upon the petition.
No additional comment may be made by the public or the petitioner except upon
the express permission of the president or presiding officer.
         (j)   Public Hearing: The rules applicable to the public forum shall
generally apply to public hearings.
         (k)   Invited Speakers: Any citizen may address the board of trustees
by invitation of the president or presiding officer or a majority of the board
of trustees present. Speakers invited to participate shall be subject to such
limitations as the president or presiding officer or majority of the board of
trustees shall prescribe. In the absence of other restrictions, such speakers
shall be governed by the same rules which govern the public forum. (Ord. O-1-
15-1, 2-2-2015; amd. Ord. O-7-17-2, 7-17-2017; Ord. O-10-22-2, 10-17-2022)
1-6-6: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the board of trustees, clerk, treasurer and village president
shall receive annual compensation to be paid in quarterly payments at the first
meetings of the village board in January, April, July and October, as follows:
Village president, beginning with the first term to be elected in 2017: Six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) annually.
Village clerk, beginning with the first term to be elected in 2017: Three
thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($3,750.00) annually.
Village trustees, beginning with those elected in 2017: Two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) annually.
Village trustees, beginning with those elected in 2019: Two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) annually.
Village treasurer, beginning with appointment in 2017: Three thousand seven
hundred fifty dollars ($3,750.00) annually. (Ord. O-5-15-2, 6-1-2015)
1-6-7: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended at
any time by the consent of the majority of the members present at any meeting.
(1975 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Oath; Bond
1-7-2: Powers and Duties
1-7-3: Clerk Pro Tem
1-7-1: OATH; BOND:
The Clerk of the Village, before he enters into the office and upon the duties
of his office, shall take an oath and subscribe to the same as required by law,
and shall file the same in the office of the Clerk. He shall also execute a
surety bond according to the provisions of Section
1-9-2 of this Code. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.2.1)
1-7-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall be the keeper of the Village Seal, and he
shall not let the Village Seal be left out of his hand or possession while in
his term of office. He shall be the keeper of all papers belonging to the
Village. He shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and keep a full
record of its proceedings in the journal and other records and all papers duly
filed in his office, and transcripts from journals and other records and files
of his office. These shall be certified by him under the Corporate Seal and
they shall be evidence in all courts in the same manner as if the original were
produced. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.2.2)
   (B)   The Clerk shall keep a record and file of all ordinances passed by the
Board of Trustees and see that they are made a part of the records to be
published, establishing the rules and laws of the Village. He shall make a
memorandum of the date of the passage and of the publication and posting of
such ordinances, which record and memorandum or a certified copy thereof shall
be prima facie evidence of the passage and legal publication or posting of such
ordinance for all purposes whatever. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.2.3)
   (C)   The Clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the President and Board of
Trustees all ordinances, resolutions or other papers in his charge with which
the Board may require the approval or otherwise action upon by the President,
and shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and all official documents
required to be issued by him under the Corporate Seal of the Village, under the
provisions of this Village Code or the laws of the State of Illinois. He shall
perform all other duties appearing before him pertaining to his office which
may be imposed on him by law or by ordinance of the Village Board. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 1.2.5)
1-7-3: CLERK PRO TEM:
The President and the Board of Trustees of the Village, in case of the absence
of the Clerk at meetings of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a Clerk Pro
Tem. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.2.4)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment
1-8-2: Oath; Bond
1-8-3: Powers And Duties
1-8-4: Warrants; Funds
1-8-5: Investment Policy
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT:
The president of the village, by and with the advice and consent of the
majority of the members of the board of trustees, shall appoint a treasurer on
the first Monday in May in each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, who
shall hold his office for one year from said Monday or until his successor is
appointed and qualified, unless he shall be sooner removed. (1974 Code § 5.1.1)
1-8-2: OATH; BOND:
The village treasurer, before entering such office and assuming the duties of
such office, shall take and subscribe to an oath, as required by law, and shall
execute a surety bond according to the provisions of section
1-9-2 of this title. (1974 Code § 1.4.1)
1-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the village, and
shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits and
credits belonging thereto, and such books and accounts shall always be subject
to the inspection of any member of the board of trustees. He shall give every
person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date
of payment and upon what account paid. He shall also file with the clerk of the
village copies of such receipts, at the date of his monthly reports. (1974 Code
§ 1.4.2)
   (B)   The treasurer shall, at the end of every month, and more often if
required by the president and board of trustees, give an account showing the
state of the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money in
the treasury. He shall also accompany such account with a statement of all
warrants redeemed and paid by him, and of all money received into the treasury
and on what account, together with other information of importance, which said
vouchers held by him shall be delivered to the clerk and filed with his account
in the clerk's office upon such books and records that he keeps. (1974 Code §
1.4.3)
   (C)   The treasurer shall report to the board of trustees as often as
required, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of the
village as shown by his books up to the time of said report, but he shall also
annually, between April 1 and April 10, file with the clerk a full and detailed
account of all such receipts, expenditures and of all his transactions as such
treasurer during the preceding fiscal year. He shall show in such account the
state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year. The clerk shall
immediately cause this account to be published in a newspaper and printed in
the village, if a paper is located in the village, and if not, then by printing
in a newspaper that is received by residents of the village, or by posting the
same in a public place in the clerk's office. (1974 Code § 1.4.4)
1-8-4: WARRANTS; FUNDS:
   (A)   All warrants drawn on the treasury must be signed by the president and
the clerk stating the particular fund or appropriation to which the same is
chargeable, and the person to whom payable, and no money shall be otherwise
paid than upon such warrants so drawn except as hereinafter provided. (1974
Code § 1.4.5)
   (B)   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the
treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and said money shall be used for no other
purpose whatsoever, unless reimbursement to the village for money expended for
such improvement is made. (1974 Code § 1.4.6)
   (C)   The treasurer shall keep all money in his hands belonging to the
village separate and distinct from his own money and he is hereby prohibited
from using, either directly or indirectly, the village money or warrants in his
custody and keeping for his own use and benefit or that of any other person or
persons whomsoever. Any violation of this provision will subject him to
immediate removal from office by the president and board of trustees who are
hereby authorized to declare said office vacant. (1974 Code § 1.4.7)
1-8-5: INVESTMENT POLICY:
   (A)   Permitted Investments:
      1.   Accounts in federal or state chartered banks within federally
insured limits, provided that the deposits in excess of insured limits may be
maintained so long as such accounts are collateralized by authorized securities
in an amount equal to any uninsured excess deposits in a manner prescribed by
section 6 of the Illinois public funds investment act 1 .
      2.   United States government securities or obligations of the United
States Of America or its agencies.
      3.   Interest bearing savings accounts, time deposits, or certificates of
deposit of a bank as defined by the Illinois banking act.
      4.   Accounts of an Illinois or federally chartered credit union,
provided that the principal office of the credit union is located in Illinois
and the account is federally insured.
      5.   The Illinois treasurer's investment pool.
      6.   Any other investments as are now or hereafter authorized by the
public funds investment act 2  or any other applicable governing statute.
   (B)   Funds To Be Invested: All funds received by the village of Grant Park
are to be invested within two (2) business days of receipt thereof. All funds
received by the village of Grant Park which are not required for immediate
disbursement shall be placed on deposit within two (2) days of receipt in an
interest bearing account at prevailing rates for deposits of the type and
amount received by the village.
   (C)   Standards Of Care: Investments shall be made subject to the standard
of care which would be demonstrated by a prudent person with discretion and
intelligence exercising judgment and management in their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment and financial management, taking into
consideration the preservation of capital, the needs for income based upon the
capital not required for immediate use and the needs for liquidity of funds
available for use by the village of Grant Park. Reasonable care, skill, and
caution shall be used in making investment decisions.
   (D)   Liquidity: The funds of the village of Grant Park will be invested in
a manner which reflects the needs of the village for liquidity to meet the
recurring and ongoing financial obligations of the village in its operations
with preservation and safety of principal being the primary requirement for any
investment. Funds which are not required to defray "day to day" expenses during
the village's fiscal year shall be placed in longer term investments yielding
higher interest than operating funds. Operating funds, however, may be placed
in intermediate or longer term investments where it is possible to time the
maturity of such investments to meet the liquidity needs of the village over
the course of its fiscal year.
   (E)   Collateralization: Any funds in the name of the village of Grant Park
on deposit in accounts which are not federally insured by virtue of an excess
of deposit over the federal insurance limits, shall be collateralized in the
manner required by section 6 of the public funds investment act 1  by the
pledge of authorized securities with a market value which is at least equal to
one hundred five percent (105%) of the excess of the deposits over insured
limits. The collateralization arrangements shall be reduced to a written
agreement between the village and the financial institution and shall be held
at an independent third party institution in the name of the village of Grant
Park.
   (F)   Chief Investment Officer: The treasurer of the village of Grant Park
shall serve as the chief investment officer and will be responsible for
establishing internal controls for the prevention of loss of funds which may
arise from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by a third party, or
imprudent actions by employees of the village. On a quarterly basis, the
treasurer shall present a written report that will include a listing of all
receipts of the village subsequent to the last report. The ending balance will
be reconciled to the village's investment account balances.
   (G)   Type Of Investments: The funds of the village will be invested so as
to receive at least prevailing market rates for funds of the same type and
duration of investment at the time the investment decision is made. Funds which
are to be immediately used to fund operating obligations of the village may be
placed in accounts which do not bear interest. Funds which are to be held for
more than two (2) days but less than sixty (60) days may be placed in money
market type bank accounts or authorized equivalent. Funds to be held longer
than sixty (60) days may be placed in certificates of deposit or authorized
equivalent and the maturities of such certificates will, to the extent
practicable, be timed to match the liquidity needs of the village. Rates of
return and yields of village investments will be regularly compared to the
rates of return for readily ascertainable comparable investments available to
the village of funds in the financial market. The village's performance goal
will be to obtain at least market rates of return on its invested funds. Funds
may also be invested in any other investment authorized in subsection (A) of
this section.
   (H)   Investment Portfolio Report: The treasurer will present an investment
portfolio report disclosing the invested funds of the village including the
type, book value, and market value of each investment, the maturity of the
investment, and the yield or rate of return on the investment. This report will
be presented not less often than quarterly at regular meetings of the village
board of trustees.
   (I)   Financial Institutions: Financial institutions selected to hold
invested funds of the village must meet the requirements of section 6 of the
public funds investment act 1  and must submit to the village the sworn
statements of resources and liabilities which the institution is required to
furnish to the government agency with regulatory jurisdiction over the
institution.
   (J)   Conflict: Officers and employees involved in the investment process
shall refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with the
proper execution and management of the investment program, or that could impair
their ability to make impartial decisions. (Ord. 11-11-07-2, 11-7-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/6.
2 2. 30 ILCS 235/0.01 et seq.
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/6.
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/6.
CHAPTER 9
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointment Of Officers
1-9-2: Bonds Of Treasurer And Clerk
1-9-3: Commission Of Officers
1-9-4: Oath
1-9-5: Financial Disclosures
1-9-6: Contesting Election
1-9-7: Removal Of Officer
1-9-8: Holding More Than One Office
1-9-9: Officer De Facto
1-9-10: Deliver Property To Successor
1-9-11: Vacancy; Special Election
1-9-12: Compensation
1-9-13: Fees, Costs Of Officers
1-9-14: Powers Of Officers
1-9-15: Attorney
1-9-16: Police Training Program
1-9-17: Employees
1-9-18: Part Time Police Officer Training And Hiring Standards
1-9-19: Anti-Nepotism Policy
1-9-20: Sexual Harassment Policy
1-9-1: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS:
   (A)   Chief Of Police: The President of the Village, by and with the advice
and consent of the majority of the members of the Board of Trustees, shall
appoint a Village Chief of Police on the first Monday of May in each year, or
as soon thereafter as practicable. He/she shall hold his/her office for one (1)
year from the said first Monday in May, or until his/her successor is appointed
and qualified, unless sooner removed. He/she shall, before taking upon himself
the discharge of the duties of his/her office, post a bond in the amount of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) toward the faithful discharge of his/her office,
and to protect himself and the Village against action he/she shall take to
enforce the laws of the State and the Village, and said bond will be paid for
by the Village. (Ord., 9-19-1994)
   (B)   Street Commissioner:
      1.   Appointment: The President and Board of Trustees may, in like
manner, appoint a Village Street Commissioner on the first Monday in May in
each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable and advisable, who shall hold
his office until the first Monday of May following his appointment unless
sooner otherwise removed. No bond is necessary for the person of this position
employed. (1974 Code § 5.1.3)
      2.   Duties:
         (a)   Repairs: The Street Commissioner shall have charge of the
improvements, repairs and cleaning of all of the streets, avenues, and alleys
in the Village, and shall supervise the construction of and repair of all
sidewalks and crosswalks in the Village, but no improvement or repair except
such as may be necessary for health and safety can be made by him/her without
the consent and authority of the Board, where the estimated cost will exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00). He/she shall, without delay, cause all breaks
in any street, alley, avenue, crossing, bridge, culvert, apron or other unsafe
place to be repaired and report the cost thereof to the Board of Trustees, but
will not make any repair other than temporary if the cost of the job is to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 9-19-1994)
         (b)   Supervision: He shall be in charge of the pumping of water, the
use of additives to the Village water and the upkeep and repair of the
equipment that is the supply of this service. It will be his job to see that
this equipment is active and in use at all times and that the operation of the
same is within the requirements of the State of Illinois. He has authority over
all other employees or engineers that may be working on such equipment and is
responsible to the Village Board for the safe operation of all pumping and
sanitation equipment. In the event the Village is to install a sewage disposal
plant, at any time, he shall be in charge of its operation, overall, even if
specially trained or schooled people are needed to see that the plant operates
under the laws of the State of Illinois and under title 7, chapter 3 of this
Code. (1974 Code § 5.2.2)
         (c)   Comply With Orders Of The Board: He shall carry into effect all
orders of the Village Board, general or special, as he may receive them from
the President or a committee on streets, alleys and sanitation, and for any
wilful neglect or refusal to perform any duty required of him by law or the
provisions of this Code, he shall be liable to be removed from his office.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 5.2.3)
         (d)   Employees: The Street Commissioner may, by authority of the
Board of Trustees, employ such number of laborers, teams or helpers as
necessary to perform any duty of his office. If wages are paid to persons hired
by him, he will keep a record of the hours and the amount, the name of the
person, his Social Security number and the amount of wage per hour and transmit
the same to the Village Clerk for payment for such labor. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
5.2.4)
         (e)   Materials, Tools: He/she may purchase or procure any needed
material or equipment to perform the duties of his/her job as long as the cost
is not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event the item
needed is to cost in excess of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), he/she will
get the authority of the Village Board before making any purchase. He/she will
cause all equipment and tools belonging to the Village to be branded or marked
with the letters "G.P." and shall cause them to be properly housed or protected
from the weather when not in use. (Ord., 9-19-94)
         (f)   Record of Property: He shall keep a correct record and list of
all implements, materials and other property of the Village, in his charge and
upon expiration of his term of office or his resignation therefrom or removal
therefrom, he shall deliver said property to the successor in office taking a
receipt therefor, which receipt he shall immediately file with the Clerk of the
Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 5.2.6)
   (C)   Insurance Covering Appointees: In the case of the person appointed in
subsections (A) and (B) of this Section, the Village shall, unless the person
appointed shall object, see that proper health and medical insurance is put in
force for the person appointed and his family, and pay the cost of all such
health and medical insurance. The type of coverage and the amounts of insurance
to be so drawn shall afford the person appointed and his family adequate
protection according to the cost of such service in that given year. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 5.1.4)
   (D)   Police Commissioner: The President and the Board of Trustees may, on
the first Monday of May in each year, appoint a Police Commissioner, who will
be the person over the Chief of Police and report to the Board the activities
and needs of the Police Department. This person may be a member of the Village
Board of Trustees but his membership on the Board need not be the case. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 5.1.5)
   (E)   Special Policemen: The President of the Board of Trustees may, on
special occasions, when his judgment tells him the public peace and order of
the Village shall require, appoint and commission such number of special
policemen as he may deem necessary. This appointment of special policemen may
also be made by the Police Commissioner, the Chief of Police or his acting
officer, with the advice and consent of the President of the Board of Trustees.
Any such persons appointed must be carded by the Village and post bond in the
name of the Village, filed with the Village Clerk, in the amount of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or have proof of bond with some other agency of
the Police Departments of the State or County. No officer or special police can
hold appointment beyond the term of office of the President of the Village
board, and after each general election to the Board of Trustees or the election
of the President of the Village Board, he must be reappointed or removed. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 5.1.6)
1-9-2: BONDS OF TREASURER AND CLERK:
The Village Treasurer and Village Clerk shall post bond before taking office in
the Village. The bond of the Clerk can be established by proper action of the
Board of Trustees, but in no case shall the bond be fixed at less than three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00). The Treasurer's bond shall be set in an amount
not less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). These bonds shall be
paid for by the Village and filed with the Clerk, except that the bond of the
Clerk shall be filed with the Treasurer. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.1.2)
1-9-3: COMMISSION OF OFFICERS:
All officers elected or appointed under the Illinois Municipal Code, except the
Village Clerk, Trustees and President shall have such election or appointment
evidenced by being commissioned by a warrant (certificate) under the Village
Seal, signed by the Clerk and the President, or President Pro Tem or presiding
officer of the Board of Trustees. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.2.6)
1-9-4: OATH:
All officers, whether elected or appointed, must take an oath of office. Form
of the oath shall be as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of                   according to
the best of my ability."
                                               
   Signature            
This oath or affirmation so subscribed shall be filed in the office of the
village clerk. (1974 Code § 1.1.4)
1-9-5: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES:
All elected officials and candidates for any elective office and some appointed
officers and employees are required to file reports making certain financial
disclosures. All such persons must file the financial disclosure form with the
county clerk. The penalty for wilfully filing a false or incomplete statement
is a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in a
penal institution (other than a penitentiary) for a term not to exceed one
year, or both. (1974 Code § 1.1.5)
1-9-6: CONTESTING ELECTION:
   (A)   The election of any trustee or other officer may be contested by any
elector of the village, and the proceedings shall be in manner hereinafter
provided as near as is practicable. The president and the board of trustees
shall be the tribunal before whom such contest shall be heard and its decision
shall be final. (1974 Code § 2.2.1)
   (B)   When any person shall desire to contest the right of another person to
hold an office of trustee, president, clerk or any other office of the village,
to which he has been elected or appointed by the board, he shall, within twenty
(20) days after the person whose election or appointment is contested, file in
the office of the clerk a statement in writing naming the grounds on which he
will contest such election or appointment, which statement shall be supported
by affidavit. Upon filing such statement with the clerk, the president and the
board shall meet within ten (10) days to consider the statement, and will,
within twenty (20) days, make a date for a meeting of all parties and witnesses
and hear all related information in order to call forth a decision in the
matter. In the event the statement of contest is upheld, the office will be
declared vacant, and in the event the statement is declared no contest, the
person being contested will be elected or appointed under confirmation of the
board. In the event of a vote in any matter, the right of secret ballot can be
applied in order to decide the issue under question. All such meetings for the
purpose of statement of consent will be open to the public. (1974 Code § 2.2.2;
amd. 1975 Code)
1-9-7: REMOVAL OF OFFICER:
When order for removal of an officer is made, the officer is directed to turn
over the property of the village in his possession, and it is his duty to
comply with this order. The officer no longer has the right to discharge the
functions of the office, regardless of the fact that after such removal time is
given to the president to file charges with the clerk, and regardless of the
fact that if by a two-thirds (2/3) vote the board of trustees disapproves the
removal, such officer will thereupon become restored. The president and board
of trustees or some other person designated thereby shall have the power to
determine rules as to how employees, as they are herein distinguished from
officers, shall be hired or fired. The village may generally discharge such
person without the requirement of providing either a list of reasons for the
firing or a hearing. In compliance with state law the village clerk, treasurer
and collector may appoint the various clerks and subordinates in their
respective offices which the village authorities may authorize. The village is
the sole judge of the election of its members. While it is the sole judge of
the eligibility of its members to hold office, the court may hear an action
brought by a citizen to impeach a trustee who is alleged to be serving
illegally. The village board is the proper authority before whom election
contest proceedings must be filed. The board may punish its members for
disorderly conduct. With the concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of its members, it
may expel a trustee but not a second time for the same offense. The board may
also compel the attendance of absentee members at a properly called meeting,
under whatever penalties, including a fine for a failure to attend, which the
board may determine. (1974 Code § 2.2.3)
1-9-8: HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE:
Elected village officials cannot hold any other office in the village while
holding their elective office, except as acting president or president pro tem;
provided, however, that the village clerk may also be the city collector as
long as the population remains under one hundred thousand (100,000); and the
president may serve as the local liquor control commissioner. (1974 Code §
2.2.4)
1-9-9: OFFICER DE FACTO:
Where there is an existing legal office, one who assumes to fill the
aforementioned office and acquires the reputation of being the officer he
assumes to be is an officer de facto, although there was some irregularity in
his appointment, election or qualification. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.2.5)
1-9-10: DELIVER PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
Within five (5) days after notification and request any person who has been an
officer of the Village is required to deliver to his successor in office all
property, books and effects in his possession, belonging to the Village, or
pertaining to the office he has held. Upon his refusal to do so, he shall be
liable for all damages caused thereby, and to the penalty prescribed by
ordinance. The ordinance establishing the penalty does not apply to refusals to
turn over records made prior to the passage of the ordinance. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
2.2.7)
1-9-11: VACANCY; SPECIAL ELECTION:
   (A)   A vacancy in an office shall occur by reason of resignation, failure
to elect or qualify, death, permanent mental or physical disability, conviction
of a disqualifying crime, abandonment of office, removal from office or change
of required residence from within the Village, and shall be filled according to
law. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.2.8)
   (B)   If there is a vacancy in an elective office and if, for any reason,
there are not in office sufficient members to constitute a quorum of the
Village authorities, a special election to fill the vacancy may be called by
the following officers in this order of preference: 1) The Village President,
2) the Village Clerk and any three (3) Trustees. The special election thus
called shall be conducted as nearly as possible in the same manner as a general
Village election. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.2.9)
1-9-12: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of all Village officers, both elected and appointed may be
such as is fixed by ordinance (Section
1-6-6), subject to the condition that it may not be increased or diminished
during the term of office. This Section does not include Village employees such
as the Chief of Police, street and alley workers or maintenance personnel 1 .
(3-20-95)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-9-17(C) hereof for employees' salaries.
1-9-13: FEES, COSTS OF OFFICERS:
   (A)   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall be allowed to charge and
collect for the following services, the following fees:
      1.   For making of copies of ordinances and other matter of record in his
office, when not required for public use of the Village, the President and the
Board of Trustees, or for any officer of the Village, to be used in his
official capacity, for each words page, fifty cents ($0.50); for certificates
of authentication thereof under the Corporate Seal, one dollar ($1.00) per
page.
      2.   For official certificates without, or with the Corporate Seal, when
not for the use aforesaid, five dollars ($5.00).
      3.   For administering and attesting each oath, zero dollars ($0.00).
      4.   For police reports to companies or individuals, a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) per copy. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 5.4.1)
   (B)   Any officer or other person entitled under this Section to charge and
receive any costs, who shall, by the provisions aforesaid, knowingly charge a
fee for any service where none is allowed by ordinance, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each and every offense. (Ord., 9-19-94; amd. Ord. O-10-22-3, 10-17-2022)
1-9-14: POWERS OF OFFICERS:
Where any power shall be vested in or duty required of the President, the same
shall be deemed to extend to and embrace and may be exercised by the acting
President, and where any power shall be vested in or duty required of the
Village Chief of Police, the same shall be deemed to extend to and include and
may be exercised by any police officer, unless such construction would be
contrary to the terms of the ordinance vesting such power or requiring such
duty. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.1.14)
1-9-15: ATTORNEY:
The Village shall have the right to employ an attorney at law for his
professional services, for corporate purposes of the Village, and pay for such
services out of the Treasury of the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 9.1)
1-9-16: POLICE TRAINING PROGRAM:
   (A)   The Village hereby elects to participate in the program under the
Illinois Police Training Act, as enacted by the 74th General Assembly of the
State of Illinois. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 14.1.1; amd. Sec. 14.1.5)
   (B)   In order that the Village be eligible for initial or continued
participation in the program, the law requires that before an individual may
commence regular employment as a policeman he must have been certified by the
Illinois Local Governmental Law Enforcement Officers Training Board as having
successfully completed an approved training course. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 14.1.2)
   (C)   The Village intends to establish its own school or to utilize some
other school certified by the Illinois Local Governmental Law Enforcement
Officers Training Board as having the purpose of providing the basic training
required under said Act. (1974 Code, Sec. 14.1.3)
   (D)   Before an individual may commence regular employment, as a policeman,
he must have been certified by the Illinois Local Governmental Law Enforcement
Officers Training Board as having successfully completed an approved training
course as provided by said Act, and that such basic training must be completed
by the trainee within his probationary period of six (6) months. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 14.1.4)
1-9-17: EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   Covered by Federal Social Security Act:
      1.   The Board of Trustees and President do hereby elect to have the
employees of the Village, hereinafter classified, covered by the Federal Social
Security Act. (1974 Code, Sec. 3.2.1)
      2.   Only those employees of the Village appointed by the President and
the Board of Trustees to fulfill the duties of an office created and existing
under the ordinances of the Village or employed by the Village for the
performance of physical duties shall be covered by such Social Security
benefits, and it is expressly declared to be the intention of this Board to
exclude from such benefits the holders of any elective office established or
provided for under the provisions of the Statutes of the State of Illinois.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.2.2)
   (B)   State Retirement System:
      1.   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the President
and Board of Trustees of the Village, as the duly elected, qualified and acting
governing body of said political subdivision to extend to the eligible
employees of the Village, commencing as of January 1, 1955, the benefits of the
Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance System as authorized by the Federal
Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In pursuance of said policy and for
that purpose, the Village President shall take such action as may be required
by applicable State and Federal laws or regulations. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.3.1)
      2.   The Village President is hereby authorized and directed to forthwith
execute an agreement with the State Employees' Retirement System of the State
of Illinois, (Social Security Unit) to secure coverage of eligible employees as
provided in subsection (B)1 hereof. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.3.2)
      3.   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided for in subsection (B)1 hereof, are hereby authorized to be made in the
amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable State and Federal
Law or regulation, and shall be paid over to the State Agency in such amounts
and at such times as are designated by State law or regulation, from amounts
appropriated for such purposes. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.3.3)
      4.   Employer contributions and administrative expense shall be paid to
the State Agency in accordance with applicable State laws or regulations, from
amounts appropriated for such purposes. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.3.4)
      5.   The Village Clerk shall maintain such records and prepare and submit
such reports as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or
regulations. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.3.5)
   (C)   Salaries: The salaries of Village employees shall be as set from time
to time by the President and Board of Trustees 1 . (1975 Code)
 
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-9-12 hereof for officers' salaries.
1-9-18: PART TIME POLICE OFFICER TRAINING AND HIRING STANDARDS:
   (A)   Employment: The Village of Grant Park may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Village of Grant Park Police Department, but the number
of hours a part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
Part time officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time
police officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with
the Illinois Police Training Act 1  and the rules and requirements of the
ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health and
physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Pass a preemployment drug and alcohol test.
      5.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      6.   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      7.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      8.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part time officers serve at the discretion
of the Village authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the Village authorities at any time. Part
time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Police Department. (Ord. 12-05-21-1, 5-21-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
1-9-19: ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY:
   (A)   Scope And Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure equal
opportunity and effective employment practices, including recruiting, testing,
hiring, compensation, assignment, use of facilities, access to training
opportunities, supervision, performance appraisal, discipline, and workplace
safety and security, while simultaneously maintaining positive morale by
avoiding actual and perceived nepotism, favoritism, discrimination, and any
other actual or potential conflicts of interest by or between the Village's
elected officials, department heads, and employees.
Pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/33-3, violations of this policy
may constitute official misconduct by a public official, department head, or
employee if they, while acting in their official capacity:
      1.   Intentionally or recklessly fail to perform any mandatory duty as
required by law;
      2.   Knowingly perform any act which they know to be forbidden by law;
      3.   Perform any act in excess of their lawful authority with intent to
obtain a personal advantage for themselves or for any other person; or
      4.   Solicit or knowingly accept a fee or reward, not authorized by law,
for the performance of any act.
   (B)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated herein:
BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP: Serving as an employee, independent contractor,
compensated consultant, owner, board member, shareholder, or investor in an
outside business, company, partnership, corporation, venture, or other
transaction where the Village employee's annual interest, compensation,
investment, or obligation is greater than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Any actual, potential, or perceived conflict of interest
in which it reasonably appears that a Village employee's action, inaction, or
decisions are or may be influenced by any of the Village employee's personal or
business relationships.
NEPOTISM: The practice of showing favoritism to relatives over others in
appointment, employment, compensation, promotion, or advancement by any public
official in a position to influence any such personnel decisions.
PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP: Any relationship arising from marriage, cohabitation,
dating, or any other intimate relationship beyond mere friendship.
RELATIVE: A spouse, parent, child, sibling, grandparent, grandchild, aunt,
uncle, niece, nephew, first cousin, in-law or step-relative, domestic partner,
cohabitant, or paramour.
SUBORDINATE: A Village employee who is subject to the temporary or ongoing
direct or indirect authority of a Supervisor.
SUPERVISOR: A Village employee who has temporary or ongoing direct or indirect
authority over the actions, decisions, evaluation, and/or performance of a
subordinate.
VILLAGE EMPLOYEE: Any individual employed by the Village of Grant Park,
including elected officials and department heads.
   (C)   Restricted Duties And Assignments: The Village will not prohibit all
personal and business relationships between Village employees. However, in
order to avoid nepotism or other inappropriate conflicts of interest, the
following reasonable restrictions shall apply:
      1.   Village employees are prohibited from directly supervising,
occupying a position in the line of supervision, or being directly supervised
by any other Village employee who is a relative or with whom they are involved
in a personal or business relationship.
         (a)   If circumstances require that a supervisor/subordinate
relationship, otherwise prohibited by this section, must temporarily exist, the
Supervisor shall make every reasonable effort to reassign matters pertaining to
the involved employee to an uninvolved supervisor.
         (b)   When personnel and circumstances permit, the Village will
attempt to make every reasonable effort to avoid placing Village employees in
supervisor/subordinate situations prohibited by this section. To this end, the
Village reserves the right to transfer or reassign any Village employee to
another position within the same classification to avoid conflicts with any
provision of this policy.
      2.   Village employees are prohibited from participating in, contributing
to, or recommending promotions, assignments, performance evaluations, or
transfers, or other personnel decisions affecting another Village employee who
is a relative, or with whom they are involved in a personal or business
relationship.
      3.   Wherever possible, any Village employee tasked with training other
Village employees will not be assigned to train any relative or person with
whom they are involved in a personal or business relationship.
   (D)   Village Employee's Responsibility:
      1.   Reporting: Prior to entering into any personal relationship,
business relationship, or other set of circumstances which the Village employee
knows or reasonably should know could create an actual or perceived conflict of
interest or otherwise cause a violation of this policy, the Village employee
shall immediately notify their next-highest level Supervisor who is not
involved in the personal relationship, business relationship, or other
circumstances. In the event that any elected official or department head of the
Village is required to make a report under this section, they shall report to
the Village Board of Trustees. Failure to immediately make a report as required
by this section will result in disciplinary action.
      2.   Notification: Whenever any Village employee is placed in
circumstances that would require the employee to take enforcement action or
provide official information or services to any relative or any individual with
whom the Village employee is involved in a personal or business relationship,
the Village employee shall immediately notify their next- highest level
Supervisor who is not involved in the personal relationship, business
relationship, or other circumstances. In the event that any elected official or
department head of the Village is required to make a report under this section,
they shall report to the Village Board of Trustees. Failure to immediately make
a report as required by this section will result in disciplinary action. (Ord.
O-3-17-4, 4-3-2017)
1-9-20: SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY:
The policy prohibiting sexual harassment, attached to Ordinance No. O-1-18-1,
passed January 16, 2018, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out
herein. (Ord. O-1-18-1, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 10
ORDINANCE ENACTMENT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Motions; Resolutions; Ordinances
1-10-2: Passage of Ordinances
1-10-3: President's Veto
1-10-4: Record and File Ordinances
1-10-5: Publication
1-10-6: Ordinance Date
1-10-1: MOTIONS; RESOLUTIONS; ORDINANCES:
The Village shall enact its laws by the means of motions, resolutions and
ordinances. Motions are considered the most informal method of action, since
they are customarily made orally. They shall, however, be noted in the minutes.
A motion may be auxiliary to a more formal resolution or ordinance, as in the
case of a motion that an ordinance be passed. All resolutions and ordinances
shall be written before being submitted to the Board of Trustees for
consideration and voting. The distinction between an ordinance and a resolution
will be that in the case of an ordinance, the starting words will always be "Be
it Ordained." An ordinance will enact permanent regulations of a general
character. As such, it sets forth a command or prohibition applicable to all
inhabitants or to certain classes in the community. Resolutions will be
ordinarily used for actions that are temporary only, or which grant a special
privilege, or which express the opinion of the Board, such as extending
sympathy or requesting action of government units. All ordinances that start
with the mandatory heading "Be it Ordained," will be passed or rejected by a
roll call vote. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.1.1)
Any ordinance which contains a statement of its urgency in the preamble or body
thereof, other than an appropriation ordinance, may take effect immediately
upon its passage provided that the corporate authorities, by a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all the members then holding office, so direct. The decision of
the corporate authorities as to the urgency of any ordinance shall not be
subject to judicial review except for an abuse of discretion. (1975 Code)
1-10-2: PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES:
The Village may pass all ordinances and make laws and rules and regulations
proper or necessary to carry out and into effect the powers granted to them or
necessarily implied. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.1.2)
1-10-3: PRESIDENT'S VETO:
   (A)   When an ordinance or resolution is given by a member of the Board over
to a vote, the vote having been taken and the act approved, the Clerk shall put
the ordinance in legal form and proper subject order and deliver the same to
the Village President within twenty (20) days of the date of the vote. If the
President approves the same, he shall sign the same and such as he shall not
approve, he shall return to the Board of Trustees with his objections thereto,
in writing, at the next regular meeting of the Board. Such veto may extend to
any one or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance making an
appropriation, or the entire ordinance, and in case the veto only extends to a
part of such ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force
at once. But in case the President shall fail to return any ordinance with his
objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have approved
such ordinance and the same shall take effect accordingly. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
3.1.3)
   (B)   Upon the return of any ordinance by the President, the vote by which
the same was passed shall be reconsidered by the Board of Trustees, and if,
after such consideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the members elected to the
Board of Trustees shall agree by yeas and nays, to pass the same, it shall go
into effect notwithstanding the President's veto or his failure to approve
thereof. The vote to pass the same over the President's veto shall be taken by
yeas and nays, and entered on the minutes of the meeting by the Clerk. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 3.1.4)
1-10-4: RECORD AND FILE ORDINANCES:
All ordinances and resolutions passed by the President and the Board of
Trustees of the Village shall at the earliest date be deposited in the office
of the Village Clerk and shall be duly recorded and filed by him in a place of
safe keeping. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.1.5)
 
1-10-5: PUBLICATION:
All ordinances of the Village imposing any fine, penalty or forfeiture or
making any appropriation shall, within thirty (30) days after they are passed,
be published at least once in a newspaper that is read by the citizens of the
Village, or if there is no such newspaper, by posting copies of the same in
three (3) public places in the Village. No such ordinance shall take effect
until after it is published. All other ordinances and resolutions shall take
effect from and after their passage, unless otherwise provided in such
ordinance and/or resolution. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.1.6; amd. 1975 Code)
1-10-6: ORDINANCE DATE:
The Village Clerk shall note at the foot of the record of such ordinance,
recording as aforesaid, a memorandum of the date of its publication and
passage, which record or memorandum of the date or a certified copy thereof,
shall be prima facie evidence of the passage and legal publication of such
ordinance. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 3.1.7)
CHAPTER 11
FINANCE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Fiscal Year
1-11-2: Annual Appropriation Bill
1-11-3: Expenditures Exceeding Appropriations
1-11-4: Contracts
1-11-5: Tax Levies
1-11-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Village shall commence on May 1 in each year, and
terminate on the day preceding May 1 of the succeeding year. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
4.1.1)
1-11-2: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION BILL:
The Board of Trustees of the Village shall, within the first quarter of each
fiscal year, pass an ordinance termed the "Annual Appropriation Bill" in which
the Board of Trustees may appropriate such sum of money as may be deemed
necessary, to defray all cost and necessary expenses and liabilities of the
Village, and in such ordinance shall specify the object and purpose for which
such appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated for each object or
purpose. No further appropriation shall be made at any other time within the
fiscal year unless the proposition to make such appropriation has been first
sanctioned by a majority of the legal voters of the Village, either by a
petition signed by them, or at a general election, or a special election duly
called therefor. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 4.1.2)
1-11-3: EXPENDITURES EXCEEDING APPROPRIATIONS:
Neither the Board of Trustees nor any department of the Village, nor any
officer of the Village shall add to the corporate expenditures in any one year
anything over and above the amount provided for in the annual appropriation
bill of that year, except as is provided for in the law and is otherwise
specially provided. No expenditure for any improvement to be paid out of the
General Fund of the Village shall exceed in any one year the amount provided
for each improvement in the annual appropriation bill; provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees from ordering by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote any improvement, the necessity of which is caused by any
casualty or accident happening after such annual appropriation is made. The
Board of Trustees may, by a vote, order the President of the Board and the
Finance Committee to borrow a sufficient amount to provide for the expenses
necessary to be incurred in making any improvement, the necessity of which has
arisen as is mentioned above, for a space of time not to exceed the close of
the next fiscal year. Such sum and the interest shall be added to the amount
authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy, and embraced therein.
Should any judgment be obtained against the corporation, the President of the
Board of Trustees may borrow a sufficient amount to pay the same for the space
of time not exceeding the close of the next fiscal year, which sum and interest
shall in like manner be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the
general tax levy of the next year and embraced therein. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 4.1.3)
1-11-4: CONTRACTS:
No contract shall be made by the Board of Trustees of the Village or any
committee, or any member of the Board, and no expense shall be endured by any
officers or departments of the Village, whether the object of the expenditure
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as herein otherwise expressly provided. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 4.1.4)
1-11-5: TAX LEVIES:
The Board of Trustees of the Village may levy and collect taxes for the
corporate purposes in a manner as follows: The Board of Trustees shall,
annually on or before the third Tuesday of September in each year, ascertain
the total amount of appropriation for all corporate purposes legally made and
to be collected from the tax levy of the fiscal year, and by ordinance
specifying in detail the purpose for which such appropriations are made, and
the sum of the amount appropriated, for such purpose, respectively levy the
amount so ascertained upon all the property subject to taxation within the
Village, as the same is assessed and equalized for State and County purposes,
for the current year. A certificate or certified copy of such ordinance shall
be filed with the County Clerk of Kankakee County, Illinois, for the purpose of
such levy. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 4.1.5)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Election of Officers; Terms
1-12-2: Poll Hours
1-12-3: Eligibility
1-12-4: Who May Vote
1-12-5: Notice of Election
1-12-6: Special Elections
1-12-7: Judges
1-12-8: Ballot Box
1-12-9: Manner of Voting, Conducting Elections
1-12-10: Counting Votes; Results
1-12-11: Examine Returns
1-12-12: Winner Declared; Tie
1-12-13: Notice of Election to Office
1-12-14: Special Election to Fill Vacancy
1-12-15: Police to Attend Election
1-12-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; TERMS:
The President of the Village Board, the Clerk and three (3) Trustees of the
Village Board will be elected at the same time. The term of office shall be
four (4) years. Three (3) other Trustees of the Village Board shall be elected
after the President, Clerk and the Trustees elected as previously mentioned
have held office for two (2) years. They shall be elected to a term of four (4)
years. An election shall be held every two (2) years thereafter within the
Village to preserve this rotation. All Village elections shall be held on the
third Tuesday in April unless otherwise stated by the election laws of the
State of Illinois. The President, Clerk and all Trustees shall be elected at
such place within the Village as the Clerk determines to be appropriate. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 2.1.1; amd. 1975 Code)
1-12-2: POLL HOURS:
The polls of elections will remain open from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the day of election. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.2)
1-12-3: ELIGIBILITY:
No person is eligible to hold public office in the Village unless he is
eighteen (18) years of age and has proof of residence within the Village at
least one year next preceding his election or appointment, or who is a
defaulter to the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.3)
1-12-4: WHO MAY VOTE:
Any person entitled to vote at any general election or State election of
officers, within the Village, may vote at any election for Village officers.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.4)
1-12-5: NOTICE OF ELECTION:
The City Clerk shall give notice of such election, the issue of petitions of
nomination, the filing date of same and the publication of the ballot for
election in the newspaper that will reach the people of the Village, and by
posting of notice of election. One notice shall be posted in the Village Hall
at least two (2) other places in the Village, stating in such notice the time
and place of holding the election and officers to be elected. The dates of such
publication and notice shall be according to the election laws of the State of
Illinois. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.5)
1-12-6: SPECIAL ELECTIONS:
Special elections may be ordered by the President and the Board of Trustees at
any time for the purpose provided by law, and notice for such elections shall
be given by the Clerk in the same manner and for the same time as required for
general elections, and such special elections shall be held and conducted in
the manner required in the case of general elections. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.6)
1-12-7: JUDGES:
   (A)   Appointment: The Clerk of the Village shall see that elections are
conducted by five (5) judges appointed by the Clerk, according to the election
laws of the State of Illinois, and no more than three (3) persons of the same
political party shall be appointed judges of the election for which they are
appointed. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.7)
   (B)   Qualifications: Every person chosen judge of election shall be of fair
character, approved integrity, well informed and approved by the laws of the
State of Illinois governing the appointment of judges. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.8)
   (C)   Notice of Appointment: Immediately on the appointment of such election
judges, the Clerk of the Village shall make out and deliver the same to the
several judges so appointed, a notice of such appointment. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
2.1.9)
   (D)   Absence of Judge: If, at any time of the opening of any election, any
person appointed or constituted a judge of election shall not be present or
will not act or take the oath to act in such capacity, the judge or judges
present may appoint some other qualified elector to act in his place. If there
is no judge of election, or such judges shall refuse to act, such electors of
the Village as may be present at the place of election may fill the place of
such judges, by election from their number. The judges so appointed shall have
the same power and be subject to the penalties under the law, as other judges.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.10)
   (E)   Oath of Affirmation: Previous to any vote being taken, the judges and
clerk of the election shall subscribe and take an oath of affirmation as
required by the law. The Clerk of the Village may administer oaths. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 2.1.11)
1-12-8: BALLOT BOX:
The Village Clerk shall provide a ballot box for the election. Before any
ballot shall be deposited in the ballot box, the ballot box shall be publicly
opened and exhibited and the election judges shall see that no ballots are in
such box, after which the box shall be locked and the key delivered to one of
the election judges and shall not again be opened until the close of the polls.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.12)
1-12-9: MANNER OF VOTING, CONDUCTING ELECTIONS:
The manner of voting and the manner of conducting elections, keeping poll
lists, the form of the ballot and the manner of canvassing votes by the judges
of election shall be as nearly as may be as in the case of electing County
officers under general laws of the State of Illinois. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.13)
1-12-10: COUNTING VOTES; RESULTS:
After opening the polls no adjournment shall be had nor any recess taken until
all the votes cast at such election shall have been counted and the result
publicly announced. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.14)
1-12-11: EXAMINE RETURNS:
The returns of the election, the canvass, poll list and the tally sheets and
ballots shall be made to the Clerk of the Village immediately after the
canvass, sealed and the President and Board of Trustees shall, within three (3)
days after the election, meet at the place of holding their meetings and
publicly open and examine the canvass and returns and declare the result of the
election. Said returns shall not be opened after the returns except by the
Board for the purpose of declaring the results of the election. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 2.1.15)
1-12-12: WINNER DECLARED; TIE:
The person having the highest number of votes for any office shall be declared
elected. In case of a tie, the persons so tied may cast lots to determine which
of them shall have the office. The Clerk of the Village shall be the officer to
control the casting of lots to determine the winner in the event of a tie. If
such persons cannot or do not at such a meeting, agree upon the method of
casting such lot, then the Board may determine by resolution, the method for
casting such lot, then the Board will allow the Clerk to use such method to
determine which person is entitled to the office. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.16)
1-12-13: NOTICE OF ELECTION TO OFFICE:
The Village Clerk shall, within five (5) days after the result of any election
is declared, or any appointment made, notify in writing the persons elected or
appointed to office of their election or appointment and if any person shall
fail to qualify for such office within ten (10) days after receiving such
notice, the office shall be vacant. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.17)
1-12-14: SPECIAL ELECTION TO FILL VACANCY:
If, at any election, there is a failure to elect any officer required to be
elected by or in pursuance of the law, or if the person elected fails to
qualify, or should be ineligible to office because of any legal disability or
disqualification, the President and the Board of Trustees may immediately call
a special election to fill the vacancy. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.18)
1-12-15: POLICE TO ATTEND ELECTION:
The police force of the Village shall attend elections for the purpose of
preserving order and keeping the peace and the judges of election may command
any police officer or other officer in attendance to arrest any person who
shall disturb the peace or be guilty of any disorderly or riotous conduct at or
about the polls. The judges shall have the power to authorize the attendance at
the polls of one or more persons or officers to see that the peace is observed.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 2.1.19)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Appropriation for Improvement
1-13-2: Contracts Let to Lowest Bidder
1-13-3: Special Assessments
1-13-4: Advertising for Bids
1-13-5: Bid Specifications
1-13-6: Awarding of Bids
1-13-7: Bond Required; Entering Into Contract
1-13-8: Interest in Contract; Village Officers
1-13-9: Contract Specifications
1-13-10: Contract Subject to Village Code
1-13-11: Village Not Liable
1-13-12: Selling Surplus Earth
1-13-13: Payment to Contractor
1-13-14: Extra Work
1-13-15: Contractors; Protect Utility Facilities
1-13-1: APPROPRIATION FOR IMPROVEMENT:
Where any public work shall be ordered by the President and Board of Trustees,
and before the letting of any contract therefor, by the Board, the probable
cost of such work shall be first ascertained, and no expenditure for any public
work or improvement to be paid out of the General Fund of the Village shall
exceed in any year, the amount appropriated for such improvement in the annual
appropriation bill of such year. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.1)
1-13-2: CONTRACTS LET TO LOWEST BIDDER:
All contracts for making any public improvements in the Village, to be paid for
in whole or in part by special assessment or by special taxation, and any work
or other public improvement, when the expense thereof shall exceed the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) shall be left to the lowest responsible bidder
thereof, in the manner hereinafter prescribed and be approved by the President;
provided, that any such contract may be entered into by the Street Commissioner
without the approval of the President, when authorized by a vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of all the Trustees elected to the Board of Trustees. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
10.1.2)
1-13-3: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
Whenever any local improvement shall be ordered by the Board of Trustees, which
is to be paid for in whole or in part by any special assessment, or special
taxation, or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the Board to have a civil
engineer or other competent person to prepare a plan or profile of the proposed
improvement and specifications for the construction of the same, which shall be
kept on file in the office of the Village Clerk and open to inspection of the
Village officers and other persons interested therein. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.3)
1-13-4: ADVERTISING FOR BIDS:
As soon as a special assessment for any such improvement shall have been
finally confirmed as provided by law, and sooner if the need be expedient, the
President or Board of Trustees of the Village shall be authorized to advertise
in one or more newspapers printed in the County of Kankakee, for proposals to
furnish materials, and do said work according to the plans and specifications
aforesaid, such advertising shall be in a weekly or daily newspaper for three
(3) consecutive weeks or days before the day fixed for opening said proposals
and shall state the nature and extent of the improvement ordered, the place
where the bids will be opened, the place where the specifications thereof may
be seen, and the time when the bids will be opened. If there is no newspaper,
then said notice shall be posted in at least four (4) of the most public places
in the Village at least three (3) weeks before the day named for opening said
bids. The right to reject any and all proposals or bids shall be reserved in
the advertisement or notice. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.4)
1-13-5: BID SPECIFICATIONS:
All proposals for any such improvement shall be signed by the person bidding
and be enclosed in a sealed envelope, and directed to the Clerk of the Village,
and shall be accompanied by a bond in such amount as may be deemed necessary
and named in the advertisement or notice, with sureties to be approved by the
President, conditioned that in case the contract is awarded to such bidder he
will enter into a bond as hereinafter named and required, to perform the same
according to the terms of his bid; or such bidder may be required to accompany
his bid with a certified check in such reasonable amount as shall be designated
by the President in such advertisement, payable to the order of the Village
Treasurer, which shall be forfeited to the Village in case the bidder shall
fail to enter into contract with approved sureties, to execute the work for the
price mentioned in his bid, and according to the plans and specifications, in
the event the contract should be awarded to him. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.5)
1-13-6: AWARDING OF BIDS:
All proposals shall be opened by the President at the date and hour and place
mentioned in said advertisement, in the presence of such bidders and other
persons as may attend and upon examination of the bids submitted, the President
shall award the contract to the lowest responsible bidder whose bid shall not
exceed the estimated cost of the proposed improvement, subject to the fact that
he may submit the same to the Board of Trustees for their approval and
confirmation. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.6)
1-13-7: BOND REQUIRED; ENTERING INTO CONTRACT:
The performance of the contract shall be secured by a good and sufficient bond,
to be approved by the President and the Board of Trustees, conditioned, among
other things, for the faithful execution of the terms of such contract, which
terms shall be substantially set forth in said bond. If any bidder shall fail
to promptly enter into contract and give bond as hereinbefore required, the
contract for such work may be awarded to the next lowest responsible bidder; or
if it shall be deemed best for the interest of the Village, not to accept any
of the bids, such bids may be rejected and the President shall thereupon re-
advertise for proposals in a like manner as before. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.7)
1-13-8: INTEREST IN CONTRACT; VILLAGE OFFICERS:
Any bidder who shall fail to enter into any contract so awarded, or shall fail
to fulfill any contract entered into by him with the Village shall not be
permitted to again become a bidder for any work for the Village, unless the
Board, for good reasons shown, remove his disability. No member of the Board of
Trustees or other officers of the Village shall be interested, directly or
indirectly, in any contract for work for the Village, or become security for
any contractor or other person, upon any bond to secure the performance of any
contract with the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.8)
1-13-9: CONTRACT SPECIFICATIONS:
All contracts and bonds shall run to and be in the name of the Village, and
shall be submitted to some competent attorney of law, for his approval of the
form thereof; and before the same shall be in force, they shall be signed by
the President and countersigned by the Village Clerk. Said contracts shall be
filed with and kept in the office of the Village Clerk, who shall furnish
copies thereof when asked, and the other copy shall be given to the contractor
or the contractors. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.9)
1-13-10: CONTRACT SUBJECT TO VILLAGE CODE:
Each contract shall contain a clause in substance and effect that it is made
subject to the provisions of this Village Code, and the power of the President
of the Village or other proper Village officers, to use whatever power to
suspend the work, and the Board of Trustees to annul the contract for a failure
on the part of the contractor or contractors to execute the same, according to
the terms of the contract; but that suspension shall not effect the right to
all damage claimable by the Village on account of the nonperformance of such
contract according to the terms thereof. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.10)
1-13-11: VILLAGE NOT LIABLE:
All contracts in which the contractor agrees to be paid from special taxes or
special assessments shall contain covenants to the effect that they, said
contractor or contractors, shall have no claim or lien upon the Village in any
event, except from the collection of the special taxes or assessments levied
for work contracted. No liability shall attach to the Village by reason of
entering into any such contract, except for payment to such contractor of the
money received by the Village on the special taxes or assessments, levied for
the improvement mentioned in the contract, and no contract for work to be paid
for as aforesaid, shall be let to any contractor who will not so agree. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 10.1.11)
1-13-12: SELLING SURPLUS EARTH:
In all contracts for street and alley improvements, when the Village shall
reserve the disposition of all surplus earth named in excavations upon such
streets and alleys, no contractor shall in any manner sell or dispose of any
such surplus earth under penalty of not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such offense.
(Ord., 9-19-94)
1-13-13: PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR:
When any contract, having been completed, and upon filing in the office of the
Village Clerk, the certificate of the person under whom the supervision of the
work was done, stating that he has inspected said work, and that it is
complete, according to the terms of the contract and specifications, the Clerk
and President of the Village may request the issue of a warrant from the
Treasurer for the amount due such contractor; and they may, when stipulated in
the contract, or with the consent of the Board of Trustees of the Village,
order the payment of funds upon the partial completion of the work, if each
step that is stipulated in the contract is complete and a certificate of that
completion is filed by the proper officers with the Clerk of the Village,
stating that he has examined and computed or measured such work and that he
believes there is enough done to cover the estimates, and that it is done in
accordance with the contract, advance to the contractor can be made by warrant
upon the Treasurer for such advance, reserving in all cases at least twenty
percent (20%) of the total cost of the improvement to be paid when the contract
is completed. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.13)
1-13-14: EXTRA WORK:
No payment shall be made upon any work done by contract for any extra work, not
specified therein, unless such extra work shall have been done by special order
of the Board of Trustees. No officer of the Village or special or general
superintendent employed by the Village shall certify the amount of any
contractor who has failed to comply with the terms of his or their contract,
nor in any case in advance of the progress of the work; and if he shall do so,
he shall be held liable to the Village for all loss that may arise therefrom.
The President and the Board of Trustees shall appoint a proper person to
superintend such work, and may remove him and appoint another person, from time
to time as they may elect, to superintend the work. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 10.1.14)
1-13-15: CONTRACTORS; PROTECT UTILITY FACILITIES:
All contractors and excavators shall secure and sign a Certificate of
Arrangement to protect against interference with public utility facilities.
(Res., 2-2-59; amd. 1975 Code)
CHAPTER 14
ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL LEAGUE RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Membership Authorized; Contract
1-14-2: Membership Contributions
1-14-1: MEMBERSHIP AUTHORIZED; CONTRACT:
The Village Board does hereby authorize and approve membership in the Illinois
Municipal League Risk Management Association and directs the President and
Clerk to execute an Intergovernmental Cooperation Contract with the Illinois
Municipal League Risk Management Association for membership for a period of one
year beginning the date the Association commences providing risk coverage to
its members and each year thereafter unless this Chapter is repealed.
1-14-2: MEMBERSHIP CONTRIBUTIONS:
Each member hereby agrees to contribute to the Association a sum of money to be
determined by the Association at the time of application based on the needs of
the Association and the loss experience of the member, which sum shall
constitute the cost of the member's first year contribution for membership in
the Association. Membership contributions for second and subsequent years shall
be calculated in accordance with the loss experience of the City and the needs
of the Association, including losses and expenditures of the Self-Insured
Retention Fund of the Association. (Ord. 4-7-86-2, 4-7-86)
CHAPTER 15
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1-15-1: Code Hearing Unit; Establishment
1-15-2: Hearing Officers; Appointment
1-15-3: Hearing Officers; Powers And Duties
1-15-4: Hearing Officers; Training Requirements
1-15-5: Rules And Regulations; Available For Public Inspection
1-15-6: Instituting Administrative Adjudication Proceedings
1-15-7: Subpoenas
1-15-8: Reserved
1-15-9: Reserved
1-15-10: Fines Payable To The Village Treasurer
1-15-11: Reserved
1-15-12: Administrative Hearing Not Exclusive
1-15-13: Code Hearing Unit; Jurisdiction
1-15-14: Notice
1-15-15: Administrative Hearings
1-15-16: Adjudication By Mail
1-15-17: Default
1-15-18: Enforcement Of Hearing Officer's Order
1-15-19: Combined Code Hearing Unit Authorized
1-15-1: CODE HEARING UNIT; ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created a code hearing unit which shall be known as the
"village of Grant Park code hearing unit" and authorized to conduct
administrative adjudication proceedings for the village, its departments and
its officers. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-2: HEARING OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT:
The president of the village board, with the advice and consent of the village
board, shall appoint one or more hearing officers for the purposes in this
chapter. A hearing officer may not be a code enforcement officer or other law
enforcement officer. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-3: HEARING OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES:
Hearing officers shall have the powers and authority granted to them pursuant
to Illinois state statute. (Ord. 2014-05, 5-5-2014)
1-15-4: HEARING OFFICERS; TRAINING REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to conducting an administrative adjudication proceeding, a hearing
officer shall be required to complete a training program in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-40. (Ord. 2014-05, 5-5-2014)
1-15-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS; AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
The rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of administrative
hearings shall be published and kept on file in the office of the village clerk
where they shall be available to the public for inspection and copying during
normal business hours. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-6: INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS:
Any authorized department or officer of the village may institute an
administrative adjudication proceeding with the code hearing unit by forwarding
a copy of a notice of violation or a notice of hearing, which has been properly
served, to the code hearing unit. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-7: SUBPOENAS:
   (A)   A hearing officer may issue a subpoena only if the hearing officer
determines that the testimony of the witnesses or the documents or items sought
by the subpoena are necessary to present evidence that is:
      1.   Relevant to the case; and
      2.   Relates to a contested issue in the case;
   (B)   A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      1.   The person to whom it is directed;
      2.   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any;
      3.   The date for appearance of the witnesses and the production of the
documents or other items described in the subpoena;
      4.   The time for the appearance of the witnesses and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena;
      5.   The place for the appearance of the witnesses and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena;
   (C)   In no event shall the date identified for the appearance of the
witnesses or the production of the documents or other items be less than seven
(7) days after the service of the subpoena. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-8: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2014-05, 5-5-2014)
1-15-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2014-05, 5-5-2014)
1-15-10: FINES PAYABLE TO THE VILLAGE TREASURER:
All fines and other monies paid to the village in accordance with this chapter
shall be remitted to the village treasurer. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2014-05, 5-5-2014)
1-15-12: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, neither the authority of
the code hearing unit to conduct administrative adjudication procedures nor the
institution of such procedures under this chapter shall preclude the village
from seeking remedies for code violation through the use of any other
administrative procedure or court proceeding. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-13: CODE HEARING UNIT; JURISDICTION:
The code hearing unit is authorized to establish a system of administrative
adjudications for the enforcement of all provisions of this code, except those
preempted by state law or village ordinance. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-14: NOTICE:
Notice shall be given pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-20.
(Ord. 2014-05, 5-5-2014)
1-15-15: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   (A)   Any administrative adjudication proceeding conducted by the office of
administrative adjudications shall afford the parties an opportunity for a
hearing before an administrative law officer;
   (B)   An attorney who appears on behalf of any person shall file with the
administrative law officer a written appearance on a form provided by the code
hearing unit for that purpose;
   (C)   In no event shall the case for the village be presented by an employee
of the code hearing unit; provided, however, that any documentary evidence,
including the notice of violation, which has been prepared by another
department or office of the village, may be presented at the hearing by the
hearing officer;
   (D)   The hearing officer may grant continuances only upon a finding of good
cause;
   (E)   All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation;
   (F)   The hearing officer may issue subpoenas to secure the attendance and
testimony of relevant witnesses and production of relevant documents. Issuance
of subpoenas shall be subject to the restrictions contained in this chapter;
   (G)   Subject to this section, the hearing officer may permit witnesses to
submit their testimony by affidavit or by telephone number;
   (H)   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply to the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of
their affairs;
   (I)   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance
of the evidence; provided, however, that a violation notice, or a copy thereof,
issued and signed in accordance with this chapter shall be prima facie evidence
of the correctness of the facts contained therein;
   (J)   Upon timely request of any party to a proceeding, any person, who the
hearing officer determines may reasonably be expected to provide testimony
which is material and which does not constitute a needless presentation of
cumulative evidence, shall be made available for cross examination prior to a
final determination of liability;
      The record of all hearings before a hearing officer shall include:
      1.   All documents presented at the hearing;
      2.   A copy of the notice of the violation or notice of the hearing; and
      3.   A copy of the findings and decision of the hearing officer;
   (L)   The record of a hearing before a hearing officer may include a record
of the testimony presented at the hearing, which may be by means of a tape
recording, transcription or other appropriate means;
      1.   The code hearing unit shall not provide recording services or
equipment;
      2.   Any party desiring to record the testimony presented at the hearing
shall provide its own court reporter, transcriber, or recorder at that party's
own expense regardless of the outcome of the hearing;
      3.   The hearing officer may reasonably limit where the court reporter,
transcriber, or recorder may be placed in the hearing room. If the party or the
court reporter, transcriber, or recorder is unwilling to follow reasonable
limitations then the hearing officer may remove the court reporter,
transcriber, or recorder;
   (M)   Upon conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a final
determination of liability or no liability. Upon issuing a final determination
of liability the hearing officer may:
      1.   Impose penalties and/or fines that are consistent with applicable
provisions of this code;
      2.   Issue orders that are consistent with applicable provisions of this
code; and
      3.   Assess costs reasonably related to instituting the hearing;
   (N)   In no event shall the hearing officer have the authority to impose a
penalty of imprisonment;
   (O)   In the issuance of a final determination of liability, a hearing
officer shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to seek judicial
review of the final determination. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-16: ADJUDICATION BY MAIL:
A respondent may elect to contest an alleged violation through an adjudication
by mail rather than at an administrative hearing. The respondent may simply
write a letter with any evidence respondent may have to contest the alleged
violation. The respondent must sign respondent's correspondence. (Ord. 2014-05,
5-5-2014)
1-15-17: DEFAULT:
   (A)   If at the time set for a hearing the recipient of a notice of
violation or a notice of hearing, or the recipient's attorney of record, fails
to appear, the hearing officer may find the recipient in default and proceed
with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code
violation and conclude with a finding, decision, and order. A copy of the order
of default shall be served in any manner permitted under this chapter;
   (B)   Within twenty one (21) calendar days from the issuance of an order of
default, a recipient of a notice of violation or a notice of hearing who has
been found to be in default may petition the hearing officer to set aside the
determination and set a new hearing date on the basis that the failure to
appear at the hearing was for good cause. If the petition is granted, the
hearing officer shall serve notice of the new hearing date upon the petitioner
in any manner permitted by this chapter no less than seven (7) calendar days
prior to the hearing date. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-18: ENFORCEMENT OF HEARING OFFICER'S ORDER:
Any other sanction or costs imposed by a hearing officer's order and any
expenses incurred by the village to enforce the order, including, but not
limited to, attorney fees, court costs, and costs related to property
demolition or foreclosure, that remain unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review of a hearing officer's final determination
of liability for a code violation shall be a debt due and owing the village
and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 1-17-
2000-2, 1-17-2000)
1-15-19: COMBINED CODE HEARING UNIT AUTHORIZED:
The village board president is authorized to create a combined code hearing
unit with any nearby unit(s) of local government for the efficient and just
adjudication of all ordinance violation cases for the various units of local
government parties to such an agreement. (Ord. 1-17-2000-2, 1-17-2000)
CHAPTER 16
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-16-1: Definitions
1-16-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-16-3: Gift Ban
1-16-4: Ethics Advisor
1-16-5: Ethics Commission
1-16-6: Penalties
1-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Grant Park, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Grant Park.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment at the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: (A) Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   (B)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   (C)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   (D)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   (E)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   (F)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   (G)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   (H)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   (I)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   (J)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   (K)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   (L)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   (M)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   (N)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   (O)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   (A)   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   (B)   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   (C)   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   (D)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 05-06-
06-1, 6-6-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-16-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Grant Park in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment, or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 05-06-06-1, 6-6-
2005)
1-16-3: GIFT BAN:
   (A)   Gifts Prohibited: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   (B)   Exceptions: Subsection (A) of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental. For the purpose of this
chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 05-06-06-1, 6-6-2005)
1-16-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   (A)   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, shall
designate an ethics advisor for the village of Grant Park. The duties of the
ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village of
Grant Park unless the position has been created as an office by the village of
Grant Park.
   (B)   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village of Grant Park concerning the interpretation of and
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The
ethics advisor shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the
mayor. (Ord. 05-06-06-1, 6-6-2005)
1-16-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the village of Grant Park. The commission shall be comprised of
three (3) members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees. No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission
who is related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first
cousin, to any elected officer of the village of Grant Park. No more than two
(2) members of the commission shall belong to the same political party at the
time such appointments are made. Party affiliation shall be determined by
affidavit of the person appointed.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   (C)   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the village of Grant Park
may remove a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as original appointments.
   (D)   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with section
1-16-6 of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-16-2 or
1-16-3 of this chapter to the village attorney for prosecution. The commission
shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village of Grant Park to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   (E)   1. Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-16-3 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is not determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-16-2 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and
shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in
the custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
      4.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
open meeting act.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint or
b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
mayor, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular findings in
the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a
matter of public information.
      6.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the mayor, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
      7.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection (E)5 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
      8.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-16-3 of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
      9.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 05-06-06-1, 6-6-2005)
1-16-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   A person who intentionally violates any provisions of section
1-16-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-16-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   (C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (D)   A violation of section
1-16-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village of Grant Park by filing in the circuit court information, or
sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. A
violation of section
1-16-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village of Grant Park or, by an ethics commission that has
been created, by the commission through the designated administrative
procedure.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-16-2 or 1-16-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord.
05-06-06-1, 6-6-2005)
CHAPTER 17
MUNICIPAL PROSECUTOR
SECTION:
1-17-1: Position Created
1-17-2: Prosecutorial Discretion
1-17-3: Precourt Procedure
1-17-1: POSITION CREATED:
The position of municipal prosecutor is hereby created to prosecute all
municipal ordinance citations as allowed by Illinois law. (Ord. 10-17-05-1, 11-
7-2005)
1-17-2: PROSECUTORIAL DISCRETION:
The municipal prosecutor appointed hereunder may in his or her sole discretion,
decide, determine and evaluate concerning any municipal ordinance violation,
ticket and citation, to dismiss said violation, ticket or citation. The
municipal prosecutor shall make said decision, determination and evaluation
after considering the police report and any discussions or negotiations with
the alleged offender. (Ord. 06-08-21-1, 8-21-2006)
1-17-3: PRECOURT PROCEDURE:
Any and all ordinance violations, tickets and citations issued pursuant to this
code shall require a preliminary administrative pretrial hearing held before
the municipal prosecutor at a location designated by the municipal prosecutor.
The ticket or citation issued shall disclose the date, time and location of
said hearing. The administrative pretrial hearing shall occur prior to any
court appearance. The alleged offender shall appear at said administrative
pretrial hearing. (Ord. 06-08-21-1, 8-21-2006)
CHAPTER 18
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
1-18-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-18-2: Definitions
1-18-3: Prohibited Acts
1-18-4: Penalty
1-18-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois as expressed in its
constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby
declared the policy of the village of Grant Park, Illinois, to assure equal
opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent,
sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village of Grant Park that no owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation
having the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing
accommodation and/or real property within the village, or any agent of these
shall refuse to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any
person or group of persons such housing accommodations and/or real property
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability of such person or persons because of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability in the conditions, terms,
privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or
real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection
therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. O-8-16-1,
9-19-2016)
1-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meanings as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of sale, exchange, lease, rental or financing
for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such sale,
exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodation.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village of Grand Park,
Illinois. (Ord. O-8-16-1, 9-19-2016)
1-18-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the village of Grant Park, Illinois:
   (A)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith.
   (B)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed, or disability of any person.
   (C)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (D)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   (E)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   (F)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   (G)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   (H)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. O-8-16-1, 9-19-2016)
1-18-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the village of Grant Park, Illinois, to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-8-
16-1, 9-19-2016)
CHAPTER 19
REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-19-1: Definitions
1-19-2: Maximum Reimbursement
1-19-3: Expenses For Alcohol And Alcoholic Beverages Excluded
1-19-4: Travel, Meal, And Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form
1-19-5: Reimbursement For Officers And Employees In Excess Of The Maximum
Allowance
1-19-6: Reimbursement Of Expenses Incurred By Elected Officials
1-19-7: Reimbursement For Entertainment Prohibited
1-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
ENTERTAINMENT: Any shows, amusements, theaters, circuses, sporting events, or
any other place of public or private entertainment or amusement, except to the
extent that any above- described event or activity is ancillary to the purpose
of the program or event.
LODGING: Any expenditure directly incident to public business for lodging
incurred by an employee, officer, or elected official of the Village.
MEAL: Any expenditure directly incident to public business for food and/or
drinks other than alcohol incurred by an employee, officer, or elected official
of the Village.
PUBLIC BUSINESS: Any action undertaken in the performance of a public purpose
that is required or useful for the benefit of the Village, or necessary to
carry out the responsibilities of the Village's business.
TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees,
officers, or elected officials of the Village and arising from said employee,
officer, or elected official's pursuit of public business, as well as any
expenditure by or on behalf of wards or charges of the Village. Such
expenditures include, but are not limited to, expenses involving reimbursement
to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing transportation or
related services. (Ord. O-2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
1-19-2: MAXIMUM REIMBURSEMENT:
The Village shall reimburse travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its
employees and/or officers: a) pursuant to the terms of and b) up to the maximum
allowable amounts set out in the "Village of Grant Park Travel, Meal, and
Lodging Reimbursement Policy", and fully incorporated herein as Exhibit A on
file in the Village. Reimbursement of expenses incurred in excess of the
maximums set out in said policy may only be approved pursuant to the procedure
set out in section
1-19-5 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
1-19-3: EXPENSES FOR ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES EXCLUDED:
Expenses related to the purchase of any alcohol or alcoholic beverage are
specifically excluded from reimbursement. As such, no reimbursement shall be
approved for any amount of expenses incurred in relation to the purchase of any
alcohol or alcoholic beverage. (Ord. O-2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
1-19-4: TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT REQUEST FORM:
No reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expenses incurred by any Village
employee, officer, or elected official shall be authorized unless the "Travel,
Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", and fully incorporated
herein as Exhibit B on file in the Village, has been submitted and approved.
The form, as well as any and all documents and information submitted with the
form shall be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act 1 .
(Ord. O-2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-19-5: REIMBURSEMENT FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES IN EXCESS OF THE MAXIMUM
ALLOWANCE:
Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging incurred by any officer or employee of
the Village in excess of the maximum reimbursement allowed under section
1-19-2 of this chapter may only be approved, to the extent that they exceed the
limits set out in section
1-19-2 of this chapter, by a roll-call vote at an open meeting of the Corporate
Authorities of the Village and only upon a finding by the Corporate Authorities
of the Village that such expenses were incurred as a result of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances. (Ord. O-2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
1-19-6: REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES INCURRED BY ELECTED OFFICIALS:
Expenses incurred for travel, meals, and lodging by any elected official of the
Village shall only be reimbursed if approved by a roll call vote at an open
meeting of the Corporate Authorities of the Village. Reimbursement for expenses
incurred by an elected official may only be approved upon a showing: a) that
such expenses would be reimbursable under section
1-19-2 of this chapter if incurred by an employee or officer of the Village; b)
that such expenses are otherwise reasonably incurred incident to public
business; or c) that such expenses were incurred incident to public business
and as a result of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances. (Ord. O-
2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
1-19-7: REIMBURSEMENT FOR ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED:
The Village shall not reimburse any employee, officer, or elected official of
the Village for any expenses incurred for entertainment unless the Corporate
Authorities of the Village find: a) that said entertainment was ancillary to
public business conducted by said employee, officer, or elected official and b)
that such reimbursement otherwise complies with all other provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. O-2-17-1, 2-20-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning Commission   1
ESDA   2
Zoning Board of Appeals   3
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Membership
2-1-3: Term of Office
2-1-4: Procedure
2-1-5: Powers and Duties
2-1-6: Land Subdivision or Resubdivision; Official Map
2-1-7: Improvements
2-1-8: Expenditures
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive Village plan for the guidance, direction and control of the
growth and development or redevelopment of the Village and contiguous territory
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any municipality, a Planning Commission is hereby created under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled
"Illinois Municipal Code" approved May 29, 1961, and effective July 1, 1961,
and as amended.
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Planning Commission shall consist of seven (7) members, citizens of the
Village, appointed by the President, on the basis of their particular fitness
for their duty on said Planning Commission and subject to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
2-1-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
Of the seven (7) members first appointed two (2) shall serve for a period of
one year, two (2) for a period of two (2) years, and three (3) for a period of
three (3) years. Thereafter each member shall serve for a term of three (3)
years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. All
members of the Commission shall serve without compensation except that, if the
Board of Trustees deems it advisable, they: may receive such compensation as
may be fixed from time to time by said Village and provided for in the
appropriation ordinance. The ex officio members shall serve for the terms of
the elective office.
2-1-4: PROCEDURE:
Immediately following their appointment the members of the Planning Commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter, rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with provisions of this Code and State law. The Commission shall
keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to
public inspection. The Commission shall also file an annual report with the
President and Board of Trustees setting forth its transaction and
recommendations.
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the President of the Village a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the Village and contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the Village and not included
in any other municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate
geographical or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the
official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the Village. Such plan shall
be advisory except as to such part thereof as has been implemented by
ordinances duly enacted by the Board of Trustees. All requirements for public
hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds and
filing of said plan and ordinances with the Clerk shall be complied with as
provided for by law.
To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants
of the Village and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of
unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public
improvements as herein defined and shall establish reasonable requirements
governing the location, width, course, and surfacing of public streets and
highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to
be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment. The
requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only when adopted by
ordinance.
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the Village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   (C)   To recommend to the Board of Trustees, from time to time, such changes
in the comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the
official comprehensive plan.
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the Village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan.
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding.
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled
"Illinois Municipal Code", approved May 29, 1961, and effective July 1, 1961,
and as amended, as may be conferred by the President of the Village.
2-1-6: LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP:
At any time or times, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan, or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts; and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate
limits of the Village. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of
adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of said plan and
ordinances, including the official map, with the Clerk shall be complied with
as provided for by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision
presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits of the Village
or within contiguous territory which is not more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid
unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design, and
standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service
facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for
residential purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and basins, water
supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment
in conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances, including the
official map.
2-1-7: IMPROVEMENTS:
The Clerk shall furnish the Planning Commission, for its consideration, a copy
of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Planning Commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the Board of Trustees.
2-1-8: EXPENDITURES:
The Commission may, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, employ a paid
secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages, and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by the Board of Trustees from the public funds.
If said Planning Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice
or services, it may be done upon authority from the Board of Trustees and
appropriations by the Board of Trustees therefor. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ESDA 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment
2-2-2: Coordinator
2-2-3: Functions
2-2-4: Service as Mobile Support Team
2-2-5: Agreements with Other Political Subdivisions
2-2-6: Emergency Action
2-2-7: Compensation
2-2-8: Reimbursement by State
2-2-9: Purchases and Expenditures
2-2-10: Oath
2-2-11: Office
2-2-12: Appropriation; Levy of Taxes
 
Notes
1 1. Emergency Services Disaster Agency.
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the local Municipal ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair,
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster, in
accordance with "The Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975".
This ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional members as may
be selected by the coordinator.
2-2-2: COORDINATOR:
The coordinator of the City ESDA shall be appointed by the Village President
and shall serve until removed by same.
The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Village President as provided by statute.
In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve as the
Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
Ordinance.
2-2-3: FUNCTIONS:
The City ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the City as shall be
prescribed in and by the State ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor,
and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality, or quasimunicipality entered into as provided by
"The State ESDA Act of 1975".
2-2-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the City ESDA organization may be designated as members
of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA as provided
by law.
The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the Coordinator
of the City ESDA organization.
Any member of a mobile support team who is a City employee or officer while
serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director, shall receive
the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to
such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the City, while so serving, shall receive from the State reasonable
compensation as provided by law.
2-2-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Village President and by the State
Director of ESDA.
2-2-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State of
Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action or from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the City
ESDA to cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
2-2-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the City, if called
for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members
who are not such City employees or officers shall receive for such training
time such compensation as may be established by the Village President.
2-2-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the State to the City for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the City in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the State
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
2-2-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The Village President may, on recommendation of the City Coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the City in a position
to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear
or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster.
In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the City Coordinator of ESDA is
authorized, on behalf of the City, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to City contracts or obligations, as authorized by
"The State ESDA Act of 1975", provided that if the Village President meets at
such time he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by
that body.
2-2-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the City ESDA organization
shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which
shall be filed with the Coordinator:
"I,                     , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the local Municipal ESDA organization, I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence."
2-2-11: OFFICE:
The Village President is authorized to designate space in a City building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village President for the City ESDA as
its office.
2-2-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The Village President may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value
of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the
"State ESDA Act of 1975"; however, that amount collectable under such levy
shall in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (6-27-77)
gr249-4   2-3 ()CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation and Membership
2-3-2: Meetings
2-3-3: Appeal
2-3-4: Fee
2-3-5: Decision
2-3-6: Variations
2-3-7: Notice
2-3-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
A Board of Appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word "Board"
when used in this Chapter shall be construed to mean the Board of Appeals. The
said Board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the President by and
with the consent of the Village Board. The members of the first Board shall
serve respectively for the following terms (or until their respective
successors are appointed and qualified): One for one year, one for two (2)
years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years,
one for six (6) years and one for seven (7) years, and five (5) years each for
those following the first appointment. One of the members of said Board shall
be designated by the President, with the consent of the Village Board, as
Chairman of said Board, and shall hold his said office as Chairman until his
successor is appointed. Such Chairman may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. The President shall have the power to remove any
member of said Board for cause and after a public hearing. Vacancies upon said
Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has
become vacant, in the manner herein provided for the appointment of such
member. (Ord. 8-3-59; amd. 1975 Code)
2-3-2: MEETINGS:
All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the Chairman
and at such times as such Board may determine. All hearings conducted by the
Board of Appeals shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of
its hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case of a requested variation to the zoning regulations 1 ,
and the reasons for recommending or denying such variation shall be specified.
Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be filed immediately
in the office of the Board and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt
its own rules of procedure not in conflict with Title 9 of this Code, this
Chapter or the Illinois Statutes in such case made and provided, and may select
or appoint such officers as it deems necessary.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code, Zoning Regulations.
2-3-3: APPEAL:
An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person or by any officer,
department, board or bureau affected by a decision of the Building Inspector
relative to the provisions of Title 9 of this Code. Such appeal shall be taken
within such time as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general
rule, by filing with the Village President and with the Board of Appeals a
notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a decision
on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at
the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
2-3-4: FEE:
A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid at the time the notice of appeal is
filed.
2-3-5: DECISION:
The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises.
2-3-6: VARIATIONS:
When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of Title 9
of this Code relating to the use of land, imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Board of Appeals may make such
variations of the strict application of the terms of Title 9 of this Code as
are in harmony with its general purpose and intent when the Board of Appeals is
satisfied, under the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such
variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is
necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to
warrant a variation in the following instances:
   (A)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record.
   (B)   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
value, by fire, act of God or the public enemy, where the Board shall find some
compelling public necessity requiring a continuation of the nonconforming use,
but in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary function is to
continue a monopoly.
   (C)   To permit the erection and use of a building or the use of premises in
any location for a public service corporation for public utility purposes which
the Board deems reasonably necessary for the public convenience or welfare.
   (D)   To make a variance where, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings or condition of a specific piece of property, or by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of
record, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions the strict
application of any provision of Title 9 of this Code would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property and amount to a practical confiscation of property, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner, provided such relief can
be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the comprehensive
plan as established by the regulations and provisions contained in Title 9 of
this Code.
   (E)   To interpret the provisions of Title 9 hereof where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the District
Map fixing the several districts.
   (F)   To permit a lot or tract to be subdivided and used by more than one
main building even though the width of the lot and other similar requirements
may not be fully complied with, but only when the distances between the
proposed use and other existing structures or lot lines conforms to the minimum
requirements of the district in which the lot is located and when adequate
vehicular access can be provided.
In considering all proposed variations to Title 9 of this Code the Board of
Appeals shall, before making any variation from Title 9 in a specific case,
first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply
of light and air to adjacent property, or unreasonably increase the congestion
in public streets, or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public
safety, or unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within
the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
comfort, morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the Village.
2-3-7: NOTICE:
The Board of Appeals shall make no recommendation except in a specific case and
after a public hearing conducted by the Board. A notice of the time and place
of such public hearing shall be posted in the Village at least fifteen (15)
days previous to the hearing in five (5) public places and mailed to the
occupants of all adjoining property. Such notice shall contain the address or
location of the property for which the variation or other ruling by the Board
is sought, as well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal. (Ord.,
8-3-59)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Licenses   1
Liquor Regulations   2
Peddlers   3
Municipal Occupation Taxes   4
Raffles   5
Garage And Similar Sales   6
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Issuance; Conditions
3-1-2: Power to License
3-1-3: Protection of Public
3-1-4: Review of Businesses
3-1-5: Fees
3-1-6: List of Taxable Businesses
3-1-7: Certain License Fees Enumerated
3-1-1: LICENSE ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Definition: A Business, for the purpose of this code, is any entity,
no matter how large or small and / or location within the Village limits, that
generates income, whether it be tangible or intangible, dealing, but not
limited to, Buy, Sell, Trade or Exchange of any value. This includes but not
limited to cash or credit, domestic or foreign, exchange of goods, electronic
coinage or such facsimile, of such making a gain or a loss.
   (B)   Application: All person(s) doing business for any purpose within the
Village limits are required to submit a Business License Application under the
provisions of this Village Code. Such person(s) shall make written application
to the Clerk of the Village using the Business License Application and / or
other necessary applications for conducting business. The application shall, at
minimum state the applicant(s) name, the business name, the purpose for which
the license is desired, the place where his business or occupation is to be
carried on. In addition, any legal, safety, tax and security information deemed
necessary by the Village. The Clerk shall bring such application before the
Village Board, unless an ordinance and required standard form is already
approved and on file, and have the request acted upon by Board vote. In the
event a standard form is on file and the ordinance has already given the power
of license to the Clerk, the Clerk may act upon the application without Board
intervention, (IE "to renew an existing license with or without changes")and if
approved by the Clerk him under the terms set down in the law, may issue such
license. The Village Board is to be informed of any such action taken by the
Clerk. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.1)
   (C)   Fee: All applications must be submitted with the appropriate fee per
the fee schedule. The fee must be attached to the written application form for
the license. All fees are non-binding and non-returnable. The Clerk will, upon
accepting such fee, pay the same over to the Village Treasurer and get a
receipt therefore, showing the sum paid, by whom and for what reason. The
application and fee do not guarantee acceptance. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.2)
   (D)   Forms: Licenses may be issued on any form the Village Board may
approve, or on any form printed by outside printing agents in a form recognized
and approved in the several areas making up the area of the Village or by the
State of Illinois or the County of Kankakee. The Clerk shall have the right to
purchase or have printed those forms that are deemed necessary to fill this
need. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.3)
   (E)   Procedure on License: The President shall receive any application(s)
for license presented to oneself in all cases, upon the terms and conditions
specified by ordinance, but if in any case the President shall decline to grant
an application for a license for any purpose, or for the transfer of a license,
the President shall communicate such application to the Clerk and the Board of
Trustees at the next regular or special meeting of the Board for its action
thereon. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.4)
   (F)   Term; Validity: No license shall be granted for a longer term than one
year, and all licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on
April 30 next following their issue. Every license shall be signed by the
President and attested by the Clerk, and under the Corporate Seal of the
Village, and registered by the Clerk. No license shall be valid until signed
and attested as aforesaid, nor shall any person or business be deemed to be
licensed until such license is issued to the individual(s) or business in due
form. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.5)
   (G)   Nontransferable: No license shall be assignable or transferable nor
shall any person be authorized to do business or act under such license but the
person to whom it is granted, or act at any other place than that specified
therein, without the consent of the Board of Trustees, to be certified by the
Clerk, nor shall any license authorizing any person to act under it at more
than one place at the same time be issued, or at any other time than is therein
specified. Whoever shall violate any provision of this subsection shall be
deemed to be acting without a license, and shall be subject to the same penalty
as is prescribed for persons doing business without a license, under the
ordinance for whatever type of business or activity the person is engaged in.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.6)
   (H)   Procedure of Transfer: Any person to whom a license is issued under
any provision of this Village Code may, with the permission of the Board,
assign and transfer such license to any other person. The permission of the
Board shall be in the form of a resolution, made a record and noted on the
license by the Clerk of the Village under the Corporate Seal. The person to
whom such license is issued or the assignee of the license may, with like
permission, surrender the license and have a new license issued for the
unexpired term of the old one, authorizing the person surrendering the license
to carry on the same business or occupation at such place as may be named in
the new license. However, in all cases a new application and fee will apply for
the transferee prior to transfer and acceptance in advance. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
1.3.7)
   (I)   Licenses of Record: All licenses shall, without charge, be entered in
a format of safe keeping and this record (book, electronic or format of the
latest technology) is to be kept by the Clerk's office for that purpose,
showing the application information, the firm licensed, the amount paid
therefore and the time of the expiration date of the same. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
1.3.8)
   (J)   Liability; Revocation: All licenses shall be subject to the provisions
of this Village Code, which may be in force at the time of the issuing of the
license or which may be subsequently passed by the President and the Board of
Trustees of the Village. If any person so licensed shall violate any of the
provisions of any ordinance regulating or relating to the business, the
registered owner shall be liable to be proceeded against for any fine or
penalty imposed thereby, and the license may be revoked at the discretion of
the President. After written notice given, such revocation shall be reported by
the President to the Board of Trustees at their next regular meeting, and said
license will remain revoked, subject to their approval. Such revocation will
conclude any further business activity. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.9)
   (K)   Posting License; Penalty: Any Business and every person(s) to whom any
license may be issued under any provisions of this Village Code shall
forthwith, upon the issuance of the license, place and keep the same posted
conspicuously in his office or place of business. Any person failing or
neglecting to so place and keep his license shall incur a penalty of not less
than One Hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than- Seven Hundred Fifty dollars
($750.00) and be liable to have his license revoked by the President, with the
consent of the Board of Trustees. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.10)
   (L)   Death of Licensee: In case of the death of any person licensed under
any provisions of this Code, before the time limit of the license has expired,
the his copartner(s), if there are any, or any legal representatives may
continue to act under such license for the unexpired term thereof, subject to
the conditions imposed, however, upon the person to whom the same was
originally granted or issued. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.11)
   (M)   Clerk to Report to Board: The Village Clerk shall, at the first
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Trustees each month, report to the
Board the number of new licenses issued during the preceding month. To whom the
new license is issued, the amount of the fee, the location of the licensee's
place of business, the name on the license and any other information he may
have regarding the same. One time per year in April, at the first regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Clerk shall report to the Board
all businesses that will expire and need to be renewed on or before May 1.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.12)
   (N)   Notice of Expiration; Acting Without License: It shall be the duty of
the Village Clerk by notice in writing to notify all persons whose licenses
have expired, or who by ordinance are required to procure a license, for
whatever reason, when they are acting without a license. Such notice shall be
given by the Clerk immediately upon the expiration of any license, or as soon
as the fact that any person is acting without a license shall come to his
knowledge. This notice may be served by mail, electronic mail or by any person
the Village Clerk may appoint. Such appointment may be made orally, and the
notice may be left at the residence or place of business of the person
notified. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.13)
   (O)   Fees Paid: No license shall be delivered to any person applying
therefore until all fees due from the application are paid, and no person shall
be considered to be licensed, although their license may have been issued until
such payment and the actual delivery of such license is made after such
payment. No person will be held to be licensed or be issued a license if they
have any outstanding debt to the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 1.3.14) (Ord. 0-2-
23-1, 2-16-2023)
3-1-2: POWER TO LICENSE:
The Village is given the power to tax, license and regulate a number of
businesses as hereinafter listed within the Village limits, subject to certain
restrictions. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 11.1.1)
The Village Board of Trustees, before adding businesses to the license rolls
and before setting fees for such license, shall make note in the records of the
Village that they have the right to license and regulate any such business due
to some interest in such regulation. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 11.1.5) (Ord. 0-2-23-1,
2-16-2023)
3-1-3: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC:
The Village shall hold the right to license and regulate any business, to
control and protect the public against harmful practices and dangers to health.
Including, but not limited to: liability insurance, sales tax reporting, fire
inspections, zoning and / or other safety standards. Compliance shall include
9-8A-3,
9-8A-4,
9-8B-3,
9-8B-4 (Uses Permitted) Such regulations shall also aid the conscientious
business person by elimination of irresponsible operators and increase public
confidence in legitimately licensed businesses. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 11.1.2) (Ord.
0-2-23-1, 2-16-2023)
3-1-4: REVIEW OF BUSINESSES:
The Board of Trustees shall, on May 1, the start of the Village fiscal year,
and before June 1 of each year, review the number of businesses being licensed
and regulated and shall determine the amount of fee for each license. The Board
shall also decide if businesses not being licensed and regulated should be
added to the license roll. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 11.1.3) (Ord. 0-2-23-1, 2-16-2023)
3-1-5: FEES:
   (A)   Made Public; Collection: The Village Clerk shall see that the fees for
all licensed businesses in the Village are made public by publishing a copy of
the same at the start of each year. The Clerk shall also see that the fees for
all licensed businesses are collected and paid over to the Village Treasurer,
as according to the provisions of Section
3-1-1 herein. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 11.1.4)
   (B)   Fees Due in Advance: All license fees, unless otherwise provided by
ordinance, shall become due and payable on May 1 in each year or on commencing
any business occupation upon which such license fee is imposed by ordinance. In
all cases, the license fee shall be received in advance for one year, except
such license fees as are payable by the day, and for all purposes connected
with the license fees as are payable with the issue and expiration of any class
or kind of license required by ordinance of the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
11.1.10)
   (C)   Fee, License Enumerated: All fees include self and other family
members, part-time, full time, temporary, and volunteer.
 
Employees Fee
1-2       $25
3-5       $50
6-14      $75
15 and up $100
 
(1975 Code; amd. Ord. 0-2-23-1, 2-16-2023)
3-1-6: LIST OF TAXABLE BUSINESSES:
   (A)   The following list of businesses and of occupations which are
specifically established in the Illinois Statutes as proper subjects for
Village regulation, license and tax:
Business Statute Reference
Business                                Statute Reference
Ambulances                              65 ILCS 5/11-5-7
Amusements, including circuses, coin-
operated games or musical devices,
motion pictures, public dances,         65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
shooting galleries, skating rinks,
theatrical exhibitions
Athletic Contests                       65 ILCS 5/11-54-1
Auctioneers                             65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Bagatelle Tables                        65 ILCS 5/11-42-2
Bankers                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Barbers                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Billiard Tables                         65 ILCS 5/11-42-2
Boats and Harbors                       65 ILCS 5/11-44-1
Bowling Alleys                          65 ILCS 5/11-42-2
Breweries                               65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Brick, Firewood, Coal, Hay              65 ILCS 5/11-53-1
Brokers                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Buses, runners of                       65 ILCS 5/11-42-4
Carnivals                               65 ILCS 5/11-54-1-3
Carters                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-6
Cigarette Tax                           65 ILCS 5/8-11-3
Coal and Lumber Yards                   65 ILCS 5/11-8-5
Coffee Houses                           65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Coin-in-the-Slot Devices                35 ILCS 510/7
Coliseum                                65 ILCS 5/11-67-6
Community Antenna Television Systems    65 ILCS 5/11-42-11
Convention Halls                        65 ILCS 5/11-65-6
Detective Agencies                      65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Dogs                                    Ch. 8, S-14 (Repealed); 65 ILCS 5/11-
                                        20-9
Draymen                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-6
Dry Cleaners                            65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Electrical Contractors                  65 ILCS 5/11-33-1
Electrical Equipment                    65 ILCS 5/11-37-2
Electricity, Tax                        65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
Any Exhibitions                         65 ILCS 5/11-54-1
Expressmen                              65 ILCS 5/11-42-6
Fees, Bicycles, Vehicles, etc.          65 ILCS 5/8-11-4
Filling Stations                        65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
Fire Insurance Agencies, foreign        Ch. 73, S-1026 (Repealed)
Florists                                65 ILCS 5/11-42-1
Food Dealers, including alcoholic
liquor dealers, retail bakeries, food   65 ILCS 5/11-42-5 ;
manufacturers, food delivery vehicles,  65 ILCS 5/11-20-2 ;
fruit stores, grocery stores, ice cream 65 ILCS 5/11-20-3
parlors, markets, meat dealers, milk
dealers, restaurants, tobacconists
Foundries                               65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Gas, Tax                                65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Hawkers                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
Heating, Air Conditioning and           65 ILCS 5/11-32-1
Refrigeration Contractors
House Trailers                          65 ILCS 5/11-5-8
Intoxicating Liquor Dealers             235 ILCS 5/4-1
Itinerant Merchants                     65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
Kennels                                 Ch. 8, SS-14-15 (Repealed)
Laundries                               65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Lumber Yards                            65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Machine Shops                           65 ILCS 5/11-42-8
Mason Contractors                       65 ILCS 5/11-36-1
Mobile Homes                            65 ILCS 5/11-5-8
Motor Vehicles, dealers in dismantled   65 ILCS 5/11-42-3
or wrecked vehicles
Peddlers                                65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
Pigeonhole Tables                       65 ILCS 5/11-42-2
Pinball                                 65 ILCS 5/11-42-2
Pool Tables                             65 ILCS 5/11-42-2
Scavenger and Garbage Collectors        Strub vs Deerfield,
                                        19 Ill. 2d 401
Secondhand Articles                     65 ILCS 5/11-42-3
Street Advertising, Sign Painting       65 ILCS 5/11-42-6
Trailer Coach Parks                     65 ILCS 5/1 l-42-8b
Undertakers                             65 ILCS 5/11-22-1
Water, Tax                              65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
 
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 11.1.6)
   (B)   The following list of businesses and of occupations which are in
addition to the Illinois Statutes as proper subjects for Village regulation,
license and tax:
   Business
   Assisted Care Facility, Nursing Homes
   Auto: Sales, Service, Modifications
   Bicycle Shops: New , Used, Repair
   Day Care Facility
   Delivery Services: (Door Dash)
   Golf Cart, Go Cart
   Landlords
   Lawn & Garden: Including all Small Engine units, Gas/Electric
   Rental/Lease Services: Inflatables, Equipment, Autos
   Retail: Wholesalers, distributors, Networks, Shopping Clubs, Internet Sales
and Such
   Sewing Centers, Tailors
   Transport Services: Taxies, Ride Share (Uber)
   Travel Services
   Listings in
9-8A-3,
9-8A-4,
9-8B-3,
9-8B-4 (Uses Permitted)
(Ord. 0-2-23-1, 2-16-2023)
3-1-7: CERTAIN LICENSE FEES ENUMERATED:
   (A)   Cigarette Sales: Any company, corporation or person desiring, either
by themselves, itself, as an agent or servant to engage in or carry on the sale
of cigarettes or other tobacco products, either in the bulk or from a vendor
machine shall pay a license fee of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per year.
   (B)   Pool Tables: Any person desiring, either by themselves or as agent or
servant to engage in or have on the property any pool table or pool table like
device, shall pay a license fee of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per year.
   (C)   Coin In The Slot Devices: Any person desiring, either by themselves or
as an agent or servant to engage in or carry on the premises of his business
any coin in the slot device for the use and/or amusement of the public shall
pay a license fee of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for
each such machine.
   (D)   Video Gaming Terminals: No person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation shall own, conduct, manage or operate a video gaming terminal
without first having obtained a license from the village of Grant Park. Each
licensee shall pay a license fee minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) peryear for
each machine. (1974 Code §§ 11.1.7 through 11.1.9; amd. Ord., 3-5-1997; Ord.
12-07-16-2, 7-16-2012; Ord. O-3-22-1, 4-4-2022; Ord. 502, 6-20-2022; Ord. 0-2-
23-1, 2-16-2023)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Classifications Of Licenses
3-2-5: Application
3-2-6: Referral Of Applications
3-2-7: License Fee
3-2-8: Bond
3-2-9: Consumption On Premises
3-2-10: Location Change
3-2-11: Number Of Licenses
3-2-12: Posting License
3-2-13: Revocation Or Suspension
3-2-14: Sanitary Measures
3-2-15: View Of Premises
3-2-16: Hours Of Sale
3-2-17: Gambling; Immorality
3-2-18: Sale To Certain Persons
3-2-19: Age Limit; Minors, Incompetents
3-2-20: Misrepresentation Of Age
3-2-21: Adult Giving Or Selling
3-2-22: Liability For Violation
3-2-23: Inspection By Police Officers
3-2-24: Adoption Of State Statute
3-2-25: Temporary Permits
3-2-26: Appeals
3-2-27: BASSET Training Required For Alcohol Sellers And Servers
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise indicates, the following words and phrases are
used in this chapter in the sense given them by the definitions contained in
section 3 of article 1 of the Act entitled "An Act Relating to Alcoholic
Liquors", enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved
January 31, 1934, as amended:
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or corporation
receiving a license under this chapter.
LIQUOR: Any intoxicating malt, vinous, mixed or fermented liquor.
PALCOHOL: Any powder or crystalline substance containing alcohol, produced for
human consumption.
RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER: Any person as defined herein, selling or offering for
sale or keeping with the intention of selling liquor at retail, or any person
giving away liquor.
SMOKING ALCOHOL INHALATION: A process by which ethanol or alcoholic liquor is
inhaled directly into the respiratory system using a vaporizing or nebulizing
device. (Ord. O-3-17-3, 4-3-2017)
3-2-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The Village President shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall
have such power and perform such duties as are prescribed in the Act of the
General Assembly referred to in the preceding section. (1974 Code § 7.1.2)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person shall sell, expose or offer for sale at retail, or display
within the corporate limits of the Village, any alcoholic liquor without first
obtaining a license from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   No license issued pursuant hereto shall be transferable, except the
transfer may be made on application and payment of fifty dollars ($50.00)
transfer fee if all provisions of this chapter are otherwise in compliance.
(1974 Code § 7.1.3)
3-2-4: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
   (A)   Class A license shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other
retail sales of such liquor.
   (B)   Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine, but
not for consumption on the premises where sold.
   (C)   Class C license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor,
but not for consumption on the premises where sold.
   (D)   Class D license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
only in conjunction with the sale of food and shall be served at tables and
allowing for no sale across the bar to any patrons. (Ord. 80-4, 12-15-1980)
3-2-5: APPLICATION:
Application shall be made as required by this chapter to the Village Clerk
accompanied by the proper fee and shall be delivered by the Village Clerk to
the Liquor Control Commissioner who shall approve or reject the same as herein
provided. The application shall provide the following:
   (A)   Name, age and address of an individual applicant.
   (B)   The name of the persons entitled to participate in the profits, if it
is a partnership application.
   (C)   The objects, names and addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporate application, and whether or not one person owns a controlling
interest in such corporation, and if so, his name and address.
   (D)   The citizenship, place of birth and place of naturalization, if
foreign born, of an individual applicant.
   (E)   The location and a description of the type or nature of the premises
where such liquor will be sold, served or consumed.
   (F)   Whether or not any previous similar license has been applied for, the
place of application and the disposition of such application, and if revoked,
the reason therefor.
   (G)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
being an inmate or keeper of a house of ill-fame, or any offense opposed to
decency and morality.
   (H)   That no license shall be issued to any person ineligible under section
2 of article 6 of the Act above referred to. A manager or agent, including
bartenders, is required to have the same qualifications as the person or firm
to whom the license is issued. That the names of all managers shall be listed
on said application.
   (I)   That all applications shall be verified by the applicant or if a
corporation, by an authorized officer thereof.
   (J)   That application shall be accompanied by license fee herein provided.
   (K)   That the proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of
any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent person or veterans,
their wives or children; or any military or naval station. That said
application shall also state the nature of the establishment wherein liquor
will be served and the same name of the owner of said premises.
   (L)   That where applicant is not the owner of said premises, said
application shall be accompanied by a valid lease between the owner and the
applicant for a minimum period of one (1) year to coincide with the period for
which the application is made.
   (M)   That licensee will not violate any of the laws of the Municipality,
State of Illinois or United States of America in the conduct of his business.
(1974 Code § 7.1.5; amd. 1975 Code)
   (N)   That no license shall be issued unless there shall be filed with the
application therefor a policy of insurance or satisfactory evidence that such
policy of insurance has been purchased and that premium has been paid or pre-
paid insuring applicant for liability under what is known as the Dram Shop Law
for:
      1.   Injury to one (1) person, twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00);
      2.   Bodily injuries, one (1) occurrence, forty thousand dollars
($40,000.00);
      3.   Injury to means of support, twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
(Ord. 80-4, 12-15-1980)
   (O)   That no licensee has or shall lease from, or directly or indirectly,
receive and accept from any manufacturer, distiller, brewer, bottler,
wholesaler, jobber or distributor, or from any agent or representative thereof,
gratuitously any money or thing of value nor shall said licensee borrow money
from or permit said person(s) to obtain directly or indirectly any interest in
the ownership, conduct or operation of the applicant's retail liquor business.
   (P)   That in the interest of public good, morals and convenience, no retail
liquor license shall be granted to any person not now licensed, whose principal
business shall be the retail sale to the general public of products other than
alcoholic liquor.
   (Q)   That no license shall be issued to any applicant indebted to the
Village, the County, the State, the United States of America or any department
thereof. (1974 Code § 7.1.5; amd. 1975 Code)
   (R)   That such applicant, or, if a corporation, the agent of same, has
resided in the Village for at least one (1) year prior to making such
application. (Ord. 80-4, 12-15-1980)
3-2-6: REFERRAL OF APPLICATIONS:
All applications for liquor licenses shall be referred to the Liquor Control
Commissioner who, together with the License Committee of the Village Board,
acting as a commission, shall investigate the qualifications and character of
the applicant. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within thirty (30) days
after said application, approve or reject said application. In the event said
application is rejected, all fees paid by said applicant shall be refunded.
(1974 Code § 7.1.6)
3-2-7: LICENSE FEE:
   (A)   The per annum fee for licenses shall be as follows:
 
Class A license $ 750.00
Class B license 750.00
Class C license 1,000.00
Class D license 750.00
 
Such licenses shall be payable on or before May 1 of each year. In the event
that any application for license hereunder shall be made for a period of less
than six (6) months by an applicant who or which shall not have been previously
engaged in the sale of alcoholic liquor within the Village, such application
shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee. (Ord.
10-03-15-3, 3-15-2010)
   (B)   The expiration date of all licenses shall be at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on April 30 of each year.
   (C)   All payments for a given period shall be payable in advance at the
time of filing application therefor.
   (D)   The fee to transfer of license from one (1) location to another after
permission is granted shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). When a licensee sells or
transfers his business to another, such successor shall pay to the Village a
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) in all cases where an existing valid license is
reissued after he qualifies, to the cases of a successor for use at the same
location, in which event the seller-licensee shall surrender his license for
cancellation which shall conclude his interest therein. The successor shall
first qualify and comply with all requirements of this chapter and pay in
advance for the reissuance of said license.
   (E)   No license shall be transferred without the consent of the Liquor
Control Commissioner. (1974 Code § 7.1.7)
3-2-8: BOND:
The applicant shall execute a surety bond to the Village in the penal sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the Liquor
Control Commissioner, conditioned upon the faithful observance of the
provisions of this chapter and the laws of the State of Illinois, and upon the
payment of all fines and costs which may be assessed against him for violation
of any of the provisions hereof. (1974 Code § 7.1.8)
3-2-9: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
   (A)   Unlicensed Premises:
      1.   No person shall bring any alcoholic liquor into any dining room of
any hotel, restaurant, club room or place where lunches are served, or where
soft drinks are sold, or a soda fountain is operated, or into any public place
for consumption, or for use for mixing with or "spiking" any alcoholic liquor
or any other beverage whatsoever.
      2.   No owner, proprietor, agent or employee of any restaurant, store or
other commercial establishment inviting or permitting public patronage shall
permit the consumption of alcoholic liquors on the premises except those
specifically licensed for consumption on the premises. No person shall consume
any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public property,
or in any automobile or vehicle traveling upon or parked on any street, alley
or public property.
   (B)   Payment For Purchase: Each retail sale of alcoholic liquor except beer
shall be made and payment received by licensee or his employee at the time of
sale on the premises of said licensee.
   (C)   Giving Away Liquor Prohibited: The giving away, directly or
indirectly, of any intoxicating liquor hereunder by the holder of any license
at his place of business hereunder, either by himself or by or through any
servant, agent, employee or person on his behalf, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   Palcohol And Smoking Alcohol Prohibited: The sale, offer for sale,
delivery, receipt, possession, or purchase for resale in the Village of any
product consisting of or containing powdered alcohol, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. O-3-17-3, 4-3-2017)
3-2-10: LOCATION CHANGE:
The location of a licensee's place of business may not be changed unless upon
written permission first issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner. No change
shall be permitted except to a location permitted under the Act referred to in
section
 3-2-1 of this chapter, and the provisions of this Code. Clubs, fraternal
organizations, restaurants and hotels only may be granted licenses for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquors in rooms situated on other than the first or
ground floor of any premises. (1974 Code § 7.1.10)
3-2-11: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   (A)   There shall not be issued within the corporate limits of the Village
more than three (3) Class A licenses; no more than one (1) Class B license; no
more than two (2) Class C licenses; and no more than one (1) Class D license
for the sale of alcoholic liquor, subject to annual renewal upon compliance
with this Code. (Ord. 13-02-19-1, 2-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-3-17-2, 4-3-2017)
   (B)   Each license on expiration as provided heretobefore shall be renewed
only upon application as provided herein and at the discretion of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner and the Village Board, and the issuance of a
license for one (1) year shall in no way be construed to be an absolute right
for reissuance of a license for any additional year. (1974 Code § 7.1.11)
3-2-12: POSTING LICENSE:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately post and keep posted while in effect, in a conspicuous place on the
premises, the license so issued. In the event such license shall be lost or
destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the Village Clerk
upon direction of the Liquor Control Commissioner. (1974 Code § 7.1.12)
3-2-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
The Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any license issued under
this chapter for any one (1) or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of the laws of the United States government, the laws of the
State of Illinois or any of the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Knowingly permitting any violation of this chapter, or any disorderly
or immoral practice upon the premises for which the license is issued,
permitting entertainment by a person partially nude to perform on the premises
or permitting prostitution or solicitation for prostitution on the premises.
   (C)   Wilfully making any false statements as to a material fact in the
application for a license.
   (D)   Failure of the licensee for any cause whatsoever to operate and
maintain a place of business at the location and on the premises pursuant to
the purpose for which the license was issued under this chapter.
   (E)   That any license issued hereunder shall be kept continuously in effect
and use in an operative business during the period for which it is issued and
when said business is abandoned, closed or for any reason becomes inoperative
for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the Liquor Control Commissioner, in
his discretion, may revoke said license. (1974 Code § 7.1.13)
3-2-14: SANITARY MEASURES:
   (A)   Sanitary measures for cleaning and caring for all glasses, dishes,
utensils and equipment shall be provided for by all licensees hereunder.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any applicant for the sale of
intoxicating liquors for consumption on the premises unless separate sanitary
toilets for men and women have been installed and provided on said premises,
and such toilets shall at all times be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, shall have hot and cold running water and shall be in compliance
with all Village Code provisions.
   (C)   Licensee and the employees on premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor shall comply with the provisions of the Statute of the State
of Illinois relative to the health and cleanliness of employees selling food
and drink. (1974 Code § 7.1.14)
3-2-15: VIEW OF PREMISES:
   (A)   No curtains, drapes, screens, doors, partitions or view obstructing
device shall be used or built within any establishment or premises used by any
licensee for sale of liquor, erected for the purpose of concealment or hiding
any person or patron of such establishment.
   (B)   The interior doors of said licensed premises shall at all times during
business hours remain unlocked and the exterior windows shall at all times be
maintained in a condition so as to afford an unobstructed view of the entire
interior of said premises from the exterior thereof during the hours that
liquor is sold therein. (1974 Code § 7.1.15)
3-2-16: HOURS OF SALE:
   (A)   Alcoholic liquors may be sold, given or served pursuant hereto in
licensed premises between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. on the day following, Monday through Thursday. On Fridays and
Saturdays only the closing time shall be extended until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
On Sundays no alcoholic liquor may be sold, given, served or consumed on the
premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M.; provided however, that on New Year's Day alcoholic liquors may be
sold and consumed on the premises until three o'clock (3:00) A.M. on January 1.
(1974 Code § 7.1.16; amd. Ord. 97-12-16, 12-16-1997)
   (B)   No licensee shall permit any person other than licensees or employees
to remain in the premises where liquor is offered for sale longer than thirty
(30) minutes after said closing hour. The hours herein stated shall be the time
prevailing in the Village (i.e., CDST). (1974 Code § 7.1.16)
3-2-17: GAMBLING; IMMORALITY:
   (A)   No licensee shall permit any illegal, disorderly or immoral practices
upon the licensed premises; and no person reputed to be a gambler or having
been convicted of gambling or having any connection with any illegal alleged
gambling house shall be granted a license to sell alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Except to the extent licensed by the Board, no game of chance,
gambling or gaming device shall be kept or used in any premises licensed
hereunder. Video gaming terminals may be operated in licensed establishments to
the extent permitted by the Video Gaming Act and the regulations of the
Illinois Gaming Board promulgated thereunder. The owner of a licensed
establishment where a video gaming terminal is operated shall conspicuously
post the license for such terminal in view of the public. (Ord. 12-07-16-1, 7-
16-2012)
3-2-18: SALE TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor or to any
intoxicated person, or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard,
narcotic addict, spendthrift, insane, feeble minded or distracted person. (1974
Code § 7.1.18)
3-2-19: AGE LIMIT; MINORS, INCOMPETENTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the minimum age required by
State law to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other
place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold, or to have same in his
possession.
   (B)   No person under the minimum age required by State law unaccompanied by
his parent(s) or legal guardian and no person who is intoxicated, a known
narcotic addict or insane shall be permitted in or to loiter about any licensed
premises; provided however, that this section shall not apply to hotels,
restaurants where regular meals are served, stores, clubs, bowling alleys, etc.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly suffer or
permit his minor child to violate any provisions of this chapter. (1974 Code §
7.1.19)
3-2-20: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the minimum age required by State law
to misrepresent his age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or other place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is
sold. (1974 Code § 7.1.20)
3-2-21: ADULT GIVING OR SELLING:
It shall be unlawful for any adult to give, sell or deliver to any minor,
directly or indirectly, any alcoholic liquor. (1974 Code § 7.1.21)
3-2-22: LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION:
   (A)   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such
owner or person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as shall said licensee and shall be subject to the same punishment as said
licensee.
   (B)   Every act or omission of whatever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or
agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be subject to
punishment in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or
omitted by him personally. (1974 Code § 7.1.22)
3-2-23: INSPECTION BY POLICE OFFICERS:
All licensees are hereby required to make available for inspection by the
Liquor Control Commissioner or police officers of the Village the premises
where liquor is sold, served or consumed. (1974 Code § 7.1.23)
3-2-24: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE:
Each and every part of "An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors", enacted by the
General Assembly of the State of Illinois, (approved January 31, 1934) as the
same is or may be hereafter amended, which relates in any manner to the sale of
retail alcoholic liquors, not heretofore used or adopted by reference or
otherwise in this chapter, is hereby adopted in this section and made a part of
this chapter, to the same extent and with the same legal effect as if fully set
forth herein, and any violation of such applicable and adopted provisions of
said Act shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and be subject to
penalties herein fixed. (1974 Code § 7.1.24)
3-2-25: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
The Liquor Control Commissioner of the Village shall have power to issue a
temporary permit for a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for the sale of beer only,
and twenty five dollars ($25.00) if hard liquor is included, to be consumed on
premises at a banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar private or public
assembly where food or drink is sold, served or dispensed. Such temporary
permit shall be issued to a club, society, fraternal or benevolent organization
not for pecuniary profit, and shall be for a period of not more than three (3)
days. Not more than one (1) temporary permit shall be granted to any one (1)
organization in any one (1) period of ninety (90) days. (Ord. 5-19-75)
3-2-26: APPEALS:
Any appeals of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner's orders shall be limited
to a review of the official record of the proceedings of the local hearing.
(Ord. 02-04-01-1, 4-1-2002)
3-2-27: BASSET TRAINING REQUIRED FOR ALCOHOL SELLERS AND SERVERS:
   (A)   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the terms "BASSET" and
"BASSET Program" shall mean and refer to any state-certified Beverage Alcohol
Sellers and Servers Education Training Program.
   (B)   Training Program: Training is required as specified below:
      1.   All new liquor managers and all new employees of the holder of any
liquor license, issued by the Village, for the sale of alcoholic beverages who
mix or serve alcoholic beverages to the public and who are employed by that
licensee commencing on or after June 1, 2017, shall be required to complete a
BASSET Program within ninety (90) days of their employment date. All liquor
managers and employees employed by the licensee prior to June 1, 2017, shall
complete a BASSET Program prior to the licensee's next application for their
annual license renewal.
      2.   Verification of completion of a BASSET Program shall be filed with
the Village Police Department's BASSET Coordinator and a copy of the same shall
be maintained in the licensee's liquor manager's office. All liquor managers
and employees must contact the Village Police Department to advise of their
name, the licensed premises upon which they are employed, and their hiring date
prior to selling or serving any alcoholic liquor within the Village.
Responsibility for the registration of all liquor managers and employees rests
with the licensee.
      3.   BASSET completion cards are to be carried and exhibited on demand.
Every liquor manager or employee who has successfully completed the BASSET
Training Program shall have the BASSET completion card in their immediate
possession at all times when serving alcoholic liquor within the Village. For
the purpose of indicating compliance with this requirement, all liquor managers
and employees shall display their BASSET course completion card upon demand of
a Village police officer or other agent authorized by the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
      4.   Any failure to display a completion card as required by this section
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. Moreover, any such violation shall
be deemed and held to be the act of the licensee, and the licensee shall be
punishable in the same manner as if the violation had been committed by the
licensee personally.
      5.   The Liquor Control Commissioner of the Village may, in his sound
discretion, extend the time for completion of the training for an additional
90-day period, provided that such an extension shall only be permitted for
trainings incident upon an application for renewal of license. Such extensions
shall be given on a case-by-case basis and only for good cause shown. Requests
for such extension will be in writing and presented to the Liquor Control
Commissioner for a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to implementation
deadline.
      6.   Employees of a licensed premises that are of a "temporary status"
(Christmas, summer help, etc.) whose employment does not extend past ninety
(90) days from the date of employment are not required to complete the training
program. Instead, they shall be required, for the duration of their employment,
to work at all times under the immediate supervision of a person who has
completed the BASSET Program. Proof of employment hiring date for any such
temporary employees shall be exhibited upon demand of a Village police officer
or other agent authorized by the Liquor Control Commissioner. In addition,
"temporary status" sellers and servers must also contact the Village Police
Department to advise of their name, the licensed premises on which they are or
shall be temporarily employed, and their hiring date prior to selling or
serving any alcoholic liquor within the Village. Responsibility for
registration of all "temporary status" employees rests with the licensee.
   (C)   Completion Required: Service, sale, and management of alcoholic
liquors by any person who has not completed all required training is
prohibited. It shall be unlawful to permit any person to serve or sell
alcoholic beverages on any licensed premises unless that person has completed a
BASSET Training Program as required by this section. Further, it shall be
unlawful to employ any liquor manager on such licensed premises unless that
person has completed a BASSET Training Program as required in subsection (B) of
this section.
   (D)   Repeating Course: In addition to other penalties imposed in this
chapter, any person who violates any regulation or provision of this chapter
shall be required to again complete the BASSET Training Program as required in
this section before serving, selling, or managing alcoholic liquors within the
Village.
   (E)   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   The following shall constitute violations of this section:
         (a)   Any failure by a licensee to require its liquor manager and all
employees who mix or serve alcoholic beverages to the public to complete a
BASSET Program as required in subsection (B)1 of this section;
         (b)   Any failure by a licensee to maintain records of such
completion;
         (c)   Any failure by a licensee to submit evidence of such completion
when requested or required to do so; and
         (d)   Any failure by a licensee to otherwise comply with the
requirements of this section.
      2.   Any violation of this section shall be cause for any one (1) or more
of the following:
         (a)   Denial of an application for a license or renewal of a license;
         (b)   Imposition of a fine not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or more than the maximum fine amount set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be
considered a separate violation; and/or
         (c)   Suspension or revocation of a license pursuant to section
3-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. O-5-17-1, 5-1-2017)
gr249   3-3 ()CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Permit and License Required
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Application
3-3-4: Investigation and Issuance
3-3-5: Fees
3-3-6: License Plates and Badges
3-3-7: Transfer
3-3-8: Loud Noises and Speaking Devices
3-3-9: Use of Streets
3-3-10: Exhibition of License
3-3-11: Duty of Police to Enforce
3-3-12: Records
3-3-13: Revocation of License
3-3-14: Appeal
3-3-15: Expiration of License
3-3-1: PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler, as
defined in Section
3-3-2 of this Chapter, within the corporate limits of the Village without
having first obtained a permit and license therefor as provided herein.
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
PEDDLER: The word "peddler" as used herein shall include any person, whether a
resident of the Village or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or
any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or from
street to street carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise,
meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions,
offering and exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering
articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to place, shall
sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car,
or other vehicle or conveyance, and further provided that one who solicits
orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as a part
of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a
peddler subject to the provisions of this Chapter. The word "peddler" shall
include the words "hawker" and "huckster".
PERSON: The word "person" as used herein shall include the singular and the
plural and shall also mean and include any person, firm or corporation,
association, club, copartnership or society, or any other organization. (1975
Code)
3-3-3: APPLICATION:
Applicants for permit and license under this Chapter must file with the Clerk a
sworn application in writing (in duplicate) on a form to be furnished by the
Clerk, which shall give the following information:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant.
   (B)   Address (legal and local).
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant.
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship.
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
   (F)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification.
   (G)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture
shall be two inches by two inches (2" x 2") showing the head and shoulders of
the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner.
   (H)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two (2)
reliable property owners of the county who will certify as to the applicant's
good character and business responsibility, or, in lieu of the names of
references, any other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate such character and business responsibility.
   (I)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (J)   Applicant shall file with his application a statement by a reputable
physician of the county, dated not more than ten (10) days prior to submission
of the application, certifying the applicant to be free of infectious,
contagious or communicable disease. (1975 Code)
   (K)   At the time of filing the application, a fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be paid to the clerk. (Ord. 02-06-17-1, 6-17-2002)
3-3-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, the original shall be referred to
the chief of police, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant's
business and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the
protection of the public good.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police
shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for the same,
and return the said application to the clerk, who shall notify the applicant
that his application is disapproved and that no permit and license will be
issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the chief of
police shall endorse on the application his approval, execute a permit
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and
return said permit, along with the application to the clerk, who shall, upon
payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his permit and
issue a license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of said
licensee, the class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time
the same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other
identifying description of any vehicle used in such peddling. The clerk shall
keep a permanent record of all licenses issued. (1975 Code)
3-3-5: FEES:
   (A)   Computation Of Fees:
      1.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per week or
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for each person proposing to peddle on
foot.
      2.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per week or
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for each person proposing to peddle by
using handcart or pushcart.
      3.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per week or
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for each person proposing to peddle from
a wagon, motor vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle conveyance.
      4.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per week or
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for each helper or assistant to those
using vehicles, which helpers must help procure the permit and license as
herein provided for peddlers.
The village president, with approval of the village board at their next
regularly scheduled meeting, shall have the right to waive or adjust the said
fees of this code.
      5.   No fee shall be required of one selling products of the farm or
orchard actually produced by the seller. (Ord., 9-19-1994)
   (B)   Basis Of Fees: For the purpose of this chapter, any period of seven
(7) calendar days or less shall be considered one week; any period of more than
seven (7) calendar days and not more than thirty (30) calendar days shall be
considered one month; any period of more than thirty (30) calendar days and not
more than one calendar year shall be treated as a year. The annual fees herein
provided for shall be assessed on a calendar year basis and on and after July 1
the amount of the fee for such annual licenses shall be one-half (1/2) the
amount stipulated for the remainder of the year. (1975 Code)
3-3-6: LICENSE PLATES AND BADGES:
The clerk shall issue to each licensee at the time of delivery of his license
two (2) license plates for each vehicle to be used, plus a metal badge for each
individual licensed under this chapter. The license plates or badges shall bear
the words "Licensed Peddler", the period for which the license is issued and
the number of the license in letters and figures plainly discernible. License
plates shall be attached to the vehicle used by the licensee, either on both
sides or on the front and rear of the vehicle so used. Such badge shall be worn
constantly by the licensee on the front of his hat or outer garment in such a
way as to be conspicuous during such time as said licensee is engaged in
peddling. (1975 Code)
3-3-7: TRANSFER:
No license or badge issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be used
or worn at any time by any person other than the one to whom it was issued.
(1975 Code)
3-3-8: LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES:
No peddler, nor any person in his behalf, shall shout, make any cry out, blow a
horn, ring a bell or use any sound device, including any loudspeaking radio or
sound amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public
places of the village or upon any private premises in the village where sound
of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being
plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places,
for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise
which such licensee proposes to sell. (1975 Code)
3-3-9: USE OF STREETS:
No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public
streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall he be
permitted to operate in any congested area where his operations might impede or
inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a
police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether the area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced. (1975
Code)
3-3-10: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
Peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses at the request of any citizen.
(1975 Code)
3-3-11: DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE:
It shall be the duty of any police officer of the village to require any person
seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to
produce his peddler's license and to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person found to be violating the same. (1975 Code)
3-3-12: RECORDS:
The chief of police shall report to the clerk all convictions for violation of
this chapter and the clerk shall maintain a record for each license issued and
record the reports of violation therein. (1975 Code)
3-3-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may
be revoked by the clerk of the city after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as peddler;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      5.   Conducting the business of peddling in an unlawful manner or in such
a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to
the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for
hearing. (1975 Code)
3-3-14: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the chief of police or the clerk in the
denial of an application for permit or license or in the decision with
reference to the revocation of a license shall have the right of appeal to the
village board. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the board, within
fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to
such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The board shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the
same manner as provided in section
3-3-13 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and
order of the board on such appeal shall be final and conclusive. (1975 Code)
3-3-15: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
December 31 in the year when issued. Other than annual licenses shall expire on
the date specified in the license. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-4-2: Service Occupation Tax
3-4-3: Use Tax
3-4-4: Cannabis Retailer’s Occupation Tax
3-4-1: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the Village at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.1.2)
Every person engaged in such business in the Village shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month the report to the State of Illinois
Department of Revenue required by section Three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption," approved June 28, 1933, as amended. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 6.1.3)
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue, the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 6.1.4)
3-4-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the Municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-
11-5 of the "Illinois Municipal Code".
Every supplier or serviceman required to account for Municipal Service
Occupation Tax for the benefit of the Municipality shall file, on or before the
last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of Revenue
required by section Nine of the Service Occupation Tax Act.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord., 8-7-61; amd. 1975 Code)
3-4-3: USE TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-6 of
the Illinois Municipal Code upon the privilege of using in the Municipality any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of
Illinois Government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning
as defined in the Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate or registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord. 10-74,
10-21-74)
3-4-4: CANNABIS RETAILER'S OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
cannabis (other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act) at retail anywhere within the corporate boundaries of the
Village. The tax hereby imposed shall be at the rate of three percent (3%) of
the gross receipts of any and all retail sales of cannabis made while this
Ordinance is in effect.
The Municipal Cannabis Retailer's Occupation Tax imposed hereby, along with any
and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be
collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois.
The Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this Ordinance on behalf of the Village. (Ord. O-4-20-1, 5-4-
2020)
CHAPTER 5
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Application For License
3-5-3: Bond
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances without first
having obtained a license therefor pursuant to the raffles act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 15/1 et seq. All raffles licenses shall be issued by the
village clerk only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business,
fraternal, educational, or veteran's organizations. (Ord. 06-02-03-1, 6-2-2003)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Licenses shall be issued upon completion of an application form as prescribed
by the village clerk. (Ord. 06-02-03-1, 6-2-2003)
3-5-3: BOND:
No bond shall be required of the licensee pursuant to 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 15/5. (Ord. 06-02-03-1, 6-2-2003)
CHAPTER 6
GARAGE AND SIMILAR SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Garage And/Or Yard Sales
3-6-1: GARAGE AND/OR YARD SALES:
   (A)   Garage sales and/or yard sales of any personal property, merchandise,
or other property by individuals shall be limited to no more than three (3)
sales per calendar year. A garage and/or yard sale may consist of up to a
consecutive Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. The village authorities shall be
and are hereby empowered to vote to allow for garage sales and/or yard sales
during community events.
   (B)   Individuals or entities holding a garage and/or yard sale shall inform
the village hall at least seven (7) days in advance of their intent to do so,
with the location and the hours of the sale.
   (C)   Failure to follow the notice provisions and limitations of this
section shall be punishable by a per diem fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to a
five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine (Ord. 05-08-01-1, 8-1-2005)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code   1
Flood Damage Prevention   2
Stormwater Management   3
Vacant Lots And Buildings   4
Fence Regulations   5
Sidewalk Regulations   6
Antimonotony Code   7
Plan Review Fees   8
Swimming Pools   9
Carbon Monoxide Alarm Detectors   10
Administrative Adjudication Of Building Code Violations   11
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: General
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Administrative
4-1-4: Permits
4-1-5: Board Of Examiners And Appeals
4-1-6: Enforcement
4-1-7: Fees
4-1-8: Inspections
4-1-9: Reserved
4-1-10: Address Numbers
4-1-11: Mailboxes And Matching Monuments
4-1-12: Certificate Of Occupancy
4-1-13: Technical Codes
4-1-14: Exterior Wall Covering Materials
4-1-15: Accessory Building/Structure Foundations
4-1-16: Application Of Chapter
4-1-17: Conflict Of Ordinances
4-1-18: Penalties
4-1-19: Residential Garages
4-1-20: Storage Pods
4-1-1: GENERAL:
These regulations shall control matters concerning the construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings and structures and shall apply to existing or
proposed buildings and structures, except as such matters are otherwise
provided for in other ordinances or statutes.
This chapter shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public safety, health and welfare insofar as they are affected by
building construction through structural strength, adequate means of ingress
and egress, sanitary equipment, lights, heating, ventilation, air conditioning,
and fire safety, and to secure safety to life and property.
Where a Code conflicts with another Code, requirement, or regulations, the
strictest shall apply. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CONTRACTOR: Any person engaged in the construction, alteration or repair of
buildings or other structures or sidewalks and provides said service for any
type of activity that requires a building permit and/or requires an inspection
per adopted building codes.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The Attorney for the Village.
DECORATIVE LANDSCAPING: The process by which a landscape architect arranges and
modifies the effect of natural scenery over a given tract or area as to produce
the best aesthetic effect considering the use to which the tract or area is to
be put. This definition includes, but is not limited to, the use of decorative
planting.
EXPOSED AGGREGATE: Natural or cultured stone chips embedded in cement,
concrete, precast and epoxy materials in sections or panels.
FRONT ELEVATIONS: The clearly defined main entrance portion of a structure
which shall face the front lot line. In reference to structural requirements,
includes those side portions of a structure which face or are contiguous with a
public street or streets, thoroughfare or ways.
FRONT LOT LINE: The front property line of a zoning lot, abutting or within a
street. On a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the lot line having the
shortest dimension along the street right-of-way.
GLASS: Includes all windows and entry doors together with frames for same and/
or glass panels, precast, to the building.
MUNICIPALITY: The Village of Grant Park.
PASSENGER VEHICLE: A land motor vehicle with four (4) or more wheels that is
designed for use on public roads.
REAR ELEVATIONS: Includes that portion of a structure which faces away from all
public streets and which is not visible to the traffic on any public way.
ROOFTOP FIXTURES: All rooftop mechanical fixtures shall be screened from public
view with an approved architectural screening.
SIDE ELEVATIONS: Includes that portion or portions of a structure which do not
face or are not contiguous with a public street, thoroughfare or ways.
SOLID FINISH VENEERS: Brick stone, cultured stone, cultured brick, or any
primary materials laminated in any approved construction manner to the exterior
or interior walls.
SOLID MASONRY: Brick, cement, concrete blocks, stone or exposed aggregate or a
combination of these. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-3: ADMINISTRATIVE:
   (A)   Building Department:
      1.   There is hereby created the Building Department of the Village of
Grant Park and the Director in charge thereof shall be known as the Code
Enforcement Officer.
      2.   The Building Department shall keep careful, systematic records of
the business and work of the office, including permit applications, survey
plats and building plot plans, construction plans and specifications, copies of
permits and certificates issued, affidavits and certificates received, a record
of inspections, copies of notices and orders issued, and reports of tests made.
      3.   The Building Department shall retain plans and specifications of
houses and accessories, including survey plats and building plot plans for a
period of seven (7) years. Parts of plans for other buildings which may be
useful for future periodic inspections shall also be retained.
   (B)   Director Of Building And Zoning:
      1.   The Director may recommend a person or persons, hereby called
inspectors, for appointment by the Village President and Village Board, who are
qualified by professional or practical training and experience to conduct
certain inspections and affairs of that office.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Director and the inspectors to enforce
all of the provisions of this chapter and to act on any questions relative to
the mode or manner of construction in the erection, addition, alteration,
repair, removal, demolition of structures, installation of service equipment,
use and occupancy permits, maintenance of all buildings, including sewer
connections, zoning and nuisance complaints, fire and life safety issues, other
applicable Village ordinances, and State laws as herein referred to.
      3.   The Director and inspectors are hereby authorized to make
inspections to enforce the provisions of this chapter and for such purpose are
hereby authorized to enter any building, structure or premises. (Ord. O-11-17-
1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-4: PERMITS:
   (A)   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, enlarge, alter or
demolish a structure; or change the occupancy of a building or structure
requiring greater strength, exit, or sanitary provisions; or to change to
another use; or to install or alter any equipment for which provision is made
or the installation of which is regulated by this chapter, without first filing
an application with the Building Department in writing and obtaining the
required permit(s) therefor.
   (B)   Permit Application: Before proceeding with the erection, enlargement,
alteration, or repair of any building component or any building in the Village
of Grant Park, an application for a permit shall be filed with the Building
Department. The application shall be on a form furnished by the Director of
Building and Zoning or his/her designee. Every application for a permit shall:
describe the land upon which the proposed building or work is to be done by
some description that will readily identify the building or location of work;
show the proposed use or occupancy of all parts of the building; and, contain
such other information as the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her
designee may require as outlined in the adopted technical codes, and their
appendices, herein.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been
abandoned six (6) months after the date of filing, unless such application has
been diligently pursued. The Director of Building and Zoning or his/her
designee may grant one extension for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days,
based upon reasonable cause.
Action, by the Director of Building and Zoning, on building permit
applications, shall be within fifteen (15) working days of receipt of the
application. In cases of denial, the Director of Building and Zoning shall
advise the applicant, in writing, of the basis of the denial. If the Director
of Building and Zoning fails to act within fifteen (15) days, the applicant may
then file with the Director of Building and Zoning a written demand for the
permit. If no permit is received within five (5) working days, the applicant
may treat the application as being denied. In cases of denial, the applicant
may appeal the decision of the Director of Building and Zoning to the Plan
Commission in the manner, and subject to the standard of, section
9-14-11 of this Code.
   (C)   Surveys Required:
      1.   Site Plan: Every application for a building permit shall include a
site plan of the lot to be built upon, demonstrating the following:
         (a)   Any existing building or structure size and location; and
         (b)   The size (widest dimension in each direction), location, which
lists setback distances, and elevations of the building or structure to be
erected or structurally altered; and
         (c)   The size, location, and type of easement; and
         (d)   The location and dimensions of all proposed off street drives,
street parking and loading spaces; and
         (e)   Such other matters as the Code Enforcement Officer may deem
necessary to determine conformance with this title.
      2.   Site Survey Required: Upon completion of said foundation and prior
to approval to proceed to framing, a professional site survey prepared by a
registered professional engineer or land surveyor accurately locating and
depicting any and all easements, the placement of the foundation, elevation of
foundation constructed, and proposed garage floor elevations must be submitted
to the Village.
      3.   Plat Of Topography; Final Grade Survey: A plat of topography shall
be required after the pavement, turf, and landscaped areas have been final
graded. This plat shall include the elevation of the finished garage floor,
sidewalk at the driveway sides, lot corners at twenty five foot (25') intervals
along the front, side, and back lot lines, and any additional elevations needed
to confirm some drainage feature detailed on the neighborhood drainage plan or
site development plan. The plat of topography shall be provided to the Director
of Building and Zoning, along with a final grade surveyor certification and a
final grade owner certification prior to requesting an occupancy permit.
Occupancy shall not be permitted if the plat indicates the site grades are not
constructed consistent with the neighborhood drainage plan or site development
plan.
      4.   Records: A careful record of all applications and plats shall be
kept for a period of at least seven (7) years in the Office of the Director of
Building and Zoning.
   (D)   Requirements For The Issuance Of A Building Permit: Prior to the
issuance of a building permit, the plans, drawings, etc., for any new
construction work, alteration, repair, expansion, addition, or modification of
any new buildings or existing buildings as defined in the adopted technical
codes, and their appendices, herein shall be furnished to the Building
Department for review.
The architect, builder, or owner shall furnish the Building Department one set
of plans drawn to scale of not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") to one foot
(1') or as approved by the Building Department. Unless otherwise approved by
the Building Director, the contractor doing the work is the party required to
apply for the permit.
   (E)   Plans Required: No building permit shall be granted or plans approved
for any commercial, industrial, or public accessible building unless such plans
are prepared by an architect or structural engineer. Such plans shall be signed
and sealed by an architect or structural engineer licensed as provided by law,
listed in the Architecture Practice Act and Structural Engineering Licensing
Act of the State of Illinois. All nonresidential plans carrying an
architectural stamp and/or involving occupancy, shall be required to be sent
out to B&F Technical Code Services, or some other independent plan review
service as approved by the Code Enforcement Officer, for a complete plan review
at the owner's expense. Provided that nothing contained in this chapter shall
be construed to prevent any person from making plans and specifications for, or
supervising the erection, enlargement or alteration of, any building that is to
be constructed by himself. All such plans and drawings shall be drawn to an
appropriate scale.
Amendments to a plan, application, or other records accompanying the same shall
be filed before commencement of the work for which the amendment is proposed.
Such amendment shall be deemed part of the original application and shall be
filed therewith. Amendments to the plans or application that increase the fees
for the building permit shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (F)   Plan Approval Required:
      1.   For all multi-family residential, commercial, industrial building
permits applied for, the applicant shall supply site and structure information
according to the following plan review checklist, including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   Zoning and adjacent zoning.
         (b)   Setbacks.
         (c)   Traffic patterns and impact.
         (d)   Possible widening of street.
         (e)   Right-of-way acquisition.
         (f)   Easement acquisition.
         (g)   Green space, buffering, landscaping.
         (h)   Site layout.
         (i)   Parking lane widths, space sizes and numbers.
         (j)   Parking lot surfacing.
         (k)   Handicap accessibility.
         (l)   Site utilities.
         (m)   Grading of site.
         (n)   Entrances.
         (o)   Curbs.
         (p)   Sidewalks.
         (q)   Lighting.
         (r)   Refuse pick up.
         (s)   Signage.
         (t)   Storm flow and drainage calculations.
         (u)   Detention.
         (v)   Structure design and elevations.
         (w)   Construction elements.
         (x)   Other items as requested by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      2.   The presented plan(s) shall, at the discretion of the Director of
Building and Zoning, be reviewed and approved by the following parties before a
permit is issued:
         (a)   Building plan review by an independent plan review service
(commercial).
         (b)   Site plan review by the Village Engineer.
         (c)   Building Department.
      3.   The presented plan(s) shall be reviewed by the Grant Park Community
Fire Protection District before a permit is issued.
   (G)   Permit Fees Established: The Building Department shall collect the
applicable permit fees at the time any building permit is granted. Permit and
inspection fees are set forth in sections
 4-1-7 and
4-1-8 of this chapter. All not for profit corporations shall be exempt from the
aforementioned permit and inspection fees except for reinspection fees or any
portion that will be devoted to defraying the cost of a third party review.
To defray the engineering expenses incurred by the Village to verify the
stormwater and drainage plans for said project(s), the developer shall
reimburse the Village for said expenses prior to the issuance of the building
permit.
   (H)   When Fees Payable; Records; Reports To The Board: All fees shall be
paid to the Village of Grant Park upon the issuance of the necessary permits as
herein provided. The Village Treasurer shall keep in proper books for that
purpose an accurate account of fees paid over to the office, giving the name of
the person paying the same and the amount of each fee. The Building Department
shall prepare and present to the Village Board a report each month showing the
number of permits and the amount of fees paid.
In the event that additional fees accrue as a result of changes to the
application or plan, the Building Department may require the additional fee be
paid by the applicant or property owner before a final inspection and occupancy
certificate is completed.
   (I)   Notice To Inspect; Inspection Required; Approval: It shall be the duty
of the owner or agent, when a building is in the course of construction, to
notify the Building Department when the building is ready for inspection,
before concealing or moving to the next step of construction. The Director of
Building and Zoning or his/her designee shall within two (2) working days after
receiving a request for inspection cause the same to be made. If the
construction is found to be in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, he or she shall certify compliance by posting findings at the site or
documenting the findings on an inspection sheet. Failure by the permit holder
to request the required inspections shall be considered a violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties set forth in section
4-1-18 of this chapter.
The Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee shall conduct such
inspections from time to time during and upon completion of work as deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with the approved plans for which a permit has
been issued.
The Director of Building and Zoning, or his/her designee, or any authorized
representative, shall have the authority to enter, at any reasonable hour, any
building, structure, or premises in the jurisdiction to enforce the provisions
of this chapter, as outlined in the adopted technical codes and their
appendices.
Before issuing a permit, the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her
designee may examine or cause to be examined all building structures, building
components and sites for which an application has been filed for a permit to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, demolish or change the use thereof.
   (J)   Placard: The building permit and placard shall be kept on the site of
operation and available to the public for inspection during the entire time of
the work performed. The placard shall be kept in a conspicuous location on the
construction site in full view from the right-of-way.
In unusual cases in which it is not practical to place the placard in the view
of the right-of-way, it shall be the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer
or his/her designee to determine the proper location for its placement.
   (K)   Starting And Stopping Times For Construction: The starting and
stopping times for construction projects are as listed below, unless shift work
is required and permission is granted by the Code Enforcement Officer or his/
her designee:
 
                    Start      Stop
Building time        7:00 A.M.  7:00 P.M.
Sundays and holidays 10:00 A.M. 7:00 P.M.
 
All work will be limited to daylight hours, if accompanied by loud noises.
   (L)   Permit Expiration:
      1.   Single-family residential: All work outlined in the building permit
shall cease after eight (8) months and the building permit shall expire unless
the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee gives written approval
to extend the building permit an additional three (3) months. Any request for
an extension must be for good cause shown and based upon an agreed construction
schedule. A second extension of five (5) months may also be allowed at the
discretion of the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee. The fee
for a permit extension is waived if written application is made prior to the
expiration of the building permit.
      2.   Commercial and multi-family residential: All work outlined in the
building permit shall cease after twelve (12) months and the building permit
shall expire unless the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee
gives written approval to extend the building permit an additional three (3)
months. Any request for an extension must be for good cause shown and based
upon an agreed construction schedule. A second extension of five (5) months may
also be allowed at the discretion of the Director of Building and Zoning or
his/her designee. The fee for a permit extension is waived if written
application is made prior to the expiration of the building permit. A third
extension may be allowed at the sole discretion of the Director of Building and
Zoning or his/her designee based upon a showing of extreme hardship. An
administrative fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall accompany the request for a
third extension.
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all building permits shall expire and
be declared null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not
commenced within six (6) months from the date of the issuance of the permit, or
if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of
six (6) months. A permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for a onetime
extension from the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee, not to
exceed ninety (90) days, which may be granted at the discretion of the Director
of Building and Zoning or his/her designee if reasonable cause is shown,
including a showing that the work cannot be commenced within the six (6) month
period from the issuance date due to circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee. Before work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained, and the
fee shall be based upon the unfinished portion of the project, provided no
changes have been made in the original plans and specifications for such work.
      4.   Once the permit expires, and a final inspection has not been
requested by the permit holder, the permit must be renewed and accompanied by a
fee equal to the original permit fee. Failure to do so shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter and subject to penalties in section
4-1-18 of this chapter.
   (M)   Suspension, Revocation Of Permit: The Code Enforcement Officer or his/
her designee may suspend or revoke, in writing, a permit or approval based upon
a false statement, any misrepresentation in the application, or violations of
any provision of this chapter.
   (N)   Construction Site Requirements:
      1.   Maintenance; Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
permit holder to maintain a clean and safe construction site. The subdivision
developer shall ultimately be held responsible for the subdivision until the
lot is sold.
      2.   Vehicles: Construction vehicles shall be cleaned before leaving the
site to prevent littering of the streets. No mud or other debris is to be
permitted on any public right-of-way.
      3.   Construction Debris: No construction debris shall be stored or in
any way be allowed to remain at any location within the subdivision. Every
construction site may be required to have a garbage dumpster sufficient in size
to handle on site debris. Every dumpster shall be sufficiently covered to
prevent debris from blowing out and to prevent any unauthorized person from
rummaging or contributing to the contents. Debris shall be cleaned from the
site daily. The moving of debris from one lot to another will not be permitted.
      4.   Burning: There will not be any open burning.
      5.   Use Of Streets: The use of streets for the storage of materials in
the process of construction or alteration of a building may be granted by the
Department of Public Works, where the same will not unduly interfere with
traffic and will not reduce the usable width of the roadway. No portion of the
street shall be used other than that directly abutting on the premises on which
work is being done or directly abutting any premises adjacent to the premises
on which work is being done with the consent of the owner or occupant of that
premises.
      6.   Obstruction Of Sidewalks: No sidewalk shall be obstructed or
removed, in the course of building construction or alteration, without
permission of the Department of Public Works.
      7.   Barricades, Lights, And Safeguards: It shall be the duty of the
person or corporation doing any construction altering or wrecking work in the
Village to do the same with proper care for the safety of persons and property.
Warnings, barricades, and lights shall be maintained whenever necessary for the
protection of pedestrians or traffic; and temporary roofs over sidewalks shall
be constructed whenever there is danger from falling articles or materials to
pedestrians.
      8.   Portable Restrooms: On every construction site, one portable
restroom facility shall be provided for each forty (40) workers on the site
with a minimum of one provided. These restrooms shall be cleaned and serviced
as required to maintain them in proper working order and sanitary.
   (O)   Structures On Public Property Or Ways: No building or structure shall
be constructed, erected or allowed to stand on public property or any public
way including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, thoroughfares or
easements. There will be no structures, fences, trees, shrubs, landscaping, or
vegetation allowed in any drainage easement that would restrict the flow of
water, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Village Administrator with
the consent of the Village Engineer.
   (P)   Conflict: Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this
title shall be void. Under no circumstances shall a permit of any type be
issued for any lot which has not been recognized as a legal lot by the Village.
   (Q)   Commercial Projects: In addition to any permit fee required for a
commercial project under this section, a developer shall deposit two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) with the Village to be held in escrow. The
monies held in escrow shall be used to defray the cost of any third party
review of engineering plans, stormwater plans, drainage plans, site plans,
parking plans, lot coverage, setbacks, handicap accessibility, etc. In the
event the monies held in escrow are expended and a review of the project is
incomplete, an additional two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) shall
be submitted to the Village before a review of the development will be
continued. The Director of Building and Zoning shall have the discretion to
require less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) based upon the
size of the project and his expectation of the costs necessary to complete a
third party review. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-5: BOARD OF EXAMINERS AND APPEALS:
   (A)   Created: There is hereby created a Board of Examiners and Appeals
referred to in this chapter as the "Board".
   (B)   Members:
      1.   The Board shall consist of persons appointed by the Village
President, for a period of five (5) year terms, or until a successor has been
appointed.
      2.   The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall be an ex
officio member of said Board but shall have no vote on any matter before the
Board.
      3.   The Village President shall appoint two (2) alternate members who
shall be called by the Board Chairperson to hear appeals during the absence or
disqualification of a member. Alternate members shall possess the
qualifications required for Board membership and shall be appointed for five
(5) years, or until a successor has been appointed.
      4.   The Board shall consist of the following individuals, one from each
of the following professions or disciplines:
         (a)   Registered design professional with architectural experience or
a builder or superintendent of building construction with at least ten (10)
years' experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work.
         (b)   Registered design professional with structural engineering
experience.
         (c)   Registered design professional with electrical engineering
experience or an electrical contractor with at least ten (10) years'
experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of work.
         (d)   Registered design professional with fire protection engineering
experience or a fire protection contractor with at least ten (10) years'
experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of work.
      5.   The Board is authorized to establish policies and procedures
necessary to carry out its duties.
      6.   The Board shall annually select one of its members to serve as
Chairperson.
      7.   A member shall not hear an appeal in which that member has a
personal, professional or financial interest.
      8.   The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall serve as
Secretary to the Board. The Secretary shall file a detailed record of all
proceedings in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Application: The application for appeal shall be filed on a form
obtained from the building official within twenty (20) days after the notice
was served, along with a filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   (D)   Notice Of Meeting: The Board shall meet upon notice from the
Chairperson, within ten (10) days of the filing of an appeal or at stated
periodic meetings.
      1.   All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public. The
appellant, the appellant's representative, the Code Enforcement Officer or his/
her designee, and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
      2.   The Board shall adopt and make available to the public through the
Secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The procedures
shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but shall mandate
that only relevant information be received.
      3.   When five (5) members are not present to hear an appeal, either the
appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the right to request a
postponement of the hearing. The Board shall modify or reverse the decision of
the building official by a concurring vote of two-thirds (2/3) of its members.
      4.   The decision of the Board shall be by resolution. Certified copies
shall be furnished to the appellant and to the Code Enforcement Officer or his/
her designee.
   (E)   Functions Generally:
      1.   The Board of Examiners and Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
from any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building
Department related to this chapter.
      2.   The Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises by a concurring vote of three (3) members, and to that end the
Board shall also have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. Decisions by the Board shall be made by resolution.
      3.   The Board on its own initiative or at the request of any person or
group, including the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, may
recommend to the Village Board, after public hearing, amendments to the
Building Code.
   (F)   Effective Period Of Orders: No order of the Board permitting the
erection or alteration of a building shall be valid for a longer period than
one year from the date of such order unless a building permit for such erection
or alteration is requested within such period and such erection or alteration
is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of such
permit when issued. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Violations; Notice Of Violation; Penalties; Abatement:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate
any section of this chapter. The Director of Building and Zoning or his/her
designee shall serve a written notice of violation or order on the person
responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension, repair, use
or occupancy of a building in violation of the provisions of this chapter or in
violation of a detailed statement or plan approved thereunder, or if in
violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this
chapter. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or
condition and the abatement of the violation.
      2.   If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the
Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee shall issue a ticket or
request the legal counsel to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct, or abate such violation or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful use of the building or structure in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or other Village regulations or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto.
      3.   Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter or shall
fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee,
or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this chapter,
shall be subject to a fine in accordance with section
4-1-18 of this chapter. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      4.   The fee for anyone initiating erection, installation, alteration,
conversion, remodeling, structurally repairing, moving or changing any building
or structure, or parts or appurtenances thereof, such as sewage disposal,
plumbing installation and electrical installation prior to obtaining a building
permit shall be assessed an additional fee of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or twice the amount of the required building permit fee,
whichever is greater.
      5.   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the Village from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful
construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or use of a building or structure on or about any
premises.
   (B)   Stop Work Orders: The Director of Building and Zoning or his/her
designee shall have the authority to stop construction of any building or the
making of any alterations or repairs of any building or structure within the
Village of Grant Park when the same is being done in a reckless or careless
manner or in violation of this chapter.
The Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee shall have the
authority to stop all work, wrecking, tearing down, or moving of any building
or structure within the Village when same is being done in such a manner as to
endanger life or property and to order any and all persons engaged in such work
to stop and desist therefrom. When such work has been stopped by the order of
the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, it shall not be resumed until
the Director of Building and Zoning or his/her designee shall be satisfied that
adequate precautions have been taken for the protection of the life and
property and that the work will be done in conformity with the ordinances and
regulations of the Village.
Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe conditions, shall be liable to a
fine as set forth in section
4-1-18 of this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-7: FEES:
   (A)   Fee Schedule:
      1.   Nonresidential Fee Schedule:
         (a)   Scope: Nonresidential fees apply to all buildings or structures
designed or constructed by an architect or structural engineer for the purposes
of servicing facilities and for any kind of construction under the commercial
and industrial districts or structures of a nature not directly associated with
a residential use. Facilities or structures associated under this category
include, but are not limited to, retail and wholesale establishments, hotels
and motels, manufacturing facilities, warehousing, service, office, clubs or
meeting halls, restaurants, nightclubs, and institutional facilities.
         (b)   Fee Breakdown: Fees for building permits shall be assessed based
on the market value of the construction or improvement to be completed. The
market value shall be determined based upon the value stated in the publication
entitled "Means Square Foot Costs", published by R.S. Means Company, Inc.,
Kingston, Massachusetts, as amended from time to time, which said publication
is hereby adopted by reference by the Village of Grant Park.
The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee may accept a contract signed
by the building general contractor and property owner for the work to be
performed to compute the market value of construction for the sole purpose of
determining the building permit fee.
All applicants of approved building permits shall be assessed nonrefundable
fees as follows: Thirty dollars ($30.00) for the permit itself and in addition
thereto, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
of the cost of valuation of construction, improvement, or any portion thereof.
      2.   New Residential Fee Schedule:
         (a)   Scope: Residential fees shall apply to all single-family
dwellings, multi-family dwellings, manufactured homes, including, but not
limited to, their construction, repairing or beautification.
Residential fees shall also include all accessory buildings and structures,
including, but not limited to, swimming pools (24 inches or deeper), room
additions, remodeling, roofs, decks, fences, siding, garages, sheds, driveways,
sidewalks, brickwork, patio, and patio enclosures.
         (b)   Fee Breakdown: Fees for building permits shall be assessed based
on the "estimated cost" which shall be determined by the Code Enforcement
Officer or his/her designee, who shall calculate the cost by multiplying the
square footage of the proposed building or structure times the dollar cost per
square foot, using the following guidelines:
Dwelling with crawl space or slab (excluding garage) $ 90.00 per square foot
Dwelling with basement (excluding garage)            95.00 per square foot
Attached garage                                      30.00 per square foot
Detached garage                                      25.00 per square foot
Additions                                            45.00 per square foot
Sheds                                                15.00 per square foot
Decks                                                15.00 per square foot
Roof                                                 100.00 per square
 
The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee may accept a contract signed
by the building contractor and property owner for the work to be performed to
compute the market value of construction for the sole purpose of determining
the building permit fee.
               (c)   Fee Schedule: All applicants of approved building permits
shall be assessed nonrefundable fees as follows: Thirty dollars ($30.00) for
the permit itself and in addition thereto the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of the valuation of construction, improvement,
or any portion thereof. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-8: INSPECTIONS:
In addition to the building permit fee, an inspection fee of forty dollars
($40.00) for each inspection required for the project shall be charged before
any permit is issued. Exception: A flat fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00)
shall be charged for each new dwelling unit, and a flat fee of eight hundred
dollars ($800.00) shall be charged for each new commercial or industrial
building.
   (A)   Reinspections: For every reperformance of any inspection, the building
permit purchaser shall be assessed fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
reinspection. This fee shall be paid prior to an occupancy permit being issued.
   (B)   Inspection Requests: All required inspections as identified on the
building permit shall be requested by the permit holder, allowing two (2)
working days for such inspection to be completed. Required inspections not
requested by the building permit holder shall be considered a violation of this
title and subject to penalty and fine in accordance with section
4-1-18 of this chapter.
   (C)   Specialized Inspections: Additional specialized inspections may be
required by the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, when special
circumstances warrant. Such inspection(s) shall be paid for by the building
permit holder. This fee shall be paid prior to an occupancy permit being
issued. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-10: ADDRESS NUMBERS:
All lots, buildings, and structures in the Village shall be numbered in
accordance with the following plan:
   (A)   Every principal structure in the Village shall have placed thereon, in
a space on that portion of the structure closest to the right-of-way, visible
from the street, numeric figures at least three inches (3") high, of a
contrasting color.
   (B)   All multi-family structures shall bear the unit number on the front of
the structure. Each dwelling unit shall also bear the unit number visible on
every entrance door.
   (C)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless house numbers are
placed in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017
4-1-11: MAILBOXES AND MATCHING MONUMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every principal structure in
the Village, to place on his/her property, a mailbox, in accordance with the
following plan:
   (A)   The mailbox opening edge shall be behind the curb.
   (B)   The mailbox opening shall be forty two inches (42") high, measured
from the top of the curb.
   (C)   No owner or occupant shall construct or install a masonry mailbox or
matching monument without a building permit.
   (D)   No owner or occupant shall be granted a permit for the installation of
a masonry mailbox or matching monument unless a waiver of rights is executed
absolving the Village, and its employees, of liability for damage to those
structures during the course of their employment.
   (E)   If a masonry mailbox or matching monument is installed, no portion of
the structure shall be located closer than eight inches (8") from any curb and
public sidewalk. No masonry mailbox, or matching monument, shall be larger than
the following dimensions: five feet (5') high, four feet (4') in width, and
three feet (3') from the front of the mailbox/monument to the rear. On a corner
lot, no masonry mailbox or matching monument shall be installed within thirty
feet (30') of the nearest corner.
   (F)   No portion of a masonry mailbox or matching monument shall be located
beyond seven feet (7') of a driveway edge.
   (G)   There shall be permitted only one structure, masonry mailbox or
matching monument, per driveway side.
   (H)   All matching monuments shall be identical to their masonry mailbox
counterparts in dimension, color and material.
   (I)   No portion of any masonry mailbox or matching monument may be placed
in a location prohibited by subsection
9-3-2(G) of this Code when installed on a corner lot.
   (J)   The provisions of this section shall govern in the event they conflict
with other parts of this Code. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-12: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Certificate Required: No building, addition thereto or structure
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or used until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Director of Building and
Zoning. Failure to comply with this subsection shall constitute a violation and
be subject to penalties and fines per section
4-1-18 of this chapter. In cases of new residential or commercial construction,
the Village shall not allow water service to the site until all assessments are
paid in full and a certificate of compliance has been issued.
   (B)   Issuance: No certificate of occupancy for a building structure, use or
portion thereof, shall be issued until construction has been completed and the
premises inspected and certified to be in conformity with the approved plans
and specifications upon which the building permit was based. A certificate of
occupancy shall be issued only after the Director of Building and Zoning makes
a finding that the building, structure or improvement has met all provisions of
this title as well as all zoning and subdivision requirements per this Code.
Any certificate issued in conflict with these requirements shall be void.
In the event that winter weather conditions prevent completion of all exterior
concrete work or lot grading, and at the discretion and approval of the
Director of Building and Zoning, a cash escrow payment, or letter of credit,
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the amount of all incomplete
improvements, as determined by the Director of Building and Zoning, shall be
filed with the Village to ensure that improvements will be completed by June 1
of the next building season. The filing of this cash escrow and written
guarantee shall allow for the issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.
Improvements not completed by the June 1 date shall be considered a violation
of this provision, subject to fines for each and every day that the violation
is allowed to continue.
   (C)   Application: Every application for a building permit shall also be
deemed an application for a certificate of occupancy. Where no building permit
is required, an application for a certificate of occupancy shall be made to the
Code Enforcement Officer in such form as he may from time to time provide.
   (D)   Request For Issuance: A certificate of occupancy shall be requested by
the purchaser within ten (10) days after the erection, alterations or
improvements of such building or structure and all required inspections have
been satisfactorily completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file for a period of seven (7) years in the Office of the Code Enforcement
Officer and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
   (E)   Denial: A certificate of occupancy shall be issued, or written notice
shall be given, to the applicant, stating the reasons why a certificate cannot
be issued, no later than two (2) working days after the Code Enforcement
Officer is notified in writing that such certificate is requested. (Ord. O-11-
17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-13: TECHNICAL CODES:
   (A)   Scope: The purpose of this title is to provide minimum requirements to
safeguard life or limb, health and public welfare, and the protection of
property as it relates to these safeguards by regulating and controlling the
design, construction, prefabrication, equipment or appliance installation,
quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and repair of all buildings
and structures within the Village. Also, the purpose is to further standardize
requirements by using a compilation of data from the following technical codes.
   (B)   Building Codes: The technical codes listed below are hereby adopted as
the building codes of the Village for the control of buildings, structures, and
sites as herein provided:
      1.   2006 International Building Code, and appendices.
      2.   2006 International Residential Code, and appendices.
      3.   2006 International Mechanical Code.
      4.   2006 International Fire Code.
      5.   2006 International Property Maintenance Code, and appendices.
      6.   Illinois Plumbing Code (latest edition).
      7.   2011 National Electrical Code.
      8.   2006 International Fuel Gas Code.
      9.   2006 International Energy Conservation Code.
      10.   The Illinois Accessibility Code, as amended.
      11.   The Village of Grant Park subdivision ordinance, as amended from
time to time.
      12.   2012 International Performance Code.
   (C)   International Building Code: The following insertions, deletions,
additions or changes shall be made and supersede any of the regulations of the
2006 international building code, and appendices:
Section 101.1: Insert: village of Grant Park
Section 101.4.4: Delete in its entirety (plumbing)
Section 104.1.1: Insert: The code enforcement officer shall not be removed from
office except for cause and after full opportunity to be heard on specific and
relevant charges by and before the appointing authority.
Section 105.2: Delete in its entirety (work exempt)
Section 105.5: Delete in its entirety (expiration)
Section 108.2: Insert: See section
4-1-7 of the Grant Park code
Section 110.3: Delete in its entirety (temporary occupancy)
Section 112: Delete in its entirety (board of appeals)
Section 113: Delete: See section
4-1-18 of the Grant Park code
Section 1612.3: Insert: village of Grant Park
Section 1612.3: Insert: October 22, 1990
Section 3109.2: Delete in its entirety and replace with: "Any structure
intended for swimming, recreational bathing or wading that has the potential to
contain water over twenty-four (24) inches (610 mm) deep. This includes in-
ground, above-ground and on-ground pools, spas and fixed-in-place wading pools"
Section 3410.2: Insert: 1965
   (D)   International Residential Code, And Appendices: The following
insertions, deletions, additions or changes shall be made to the 2006
international residential code, and appendices:
Section R101.1: Insert: village of Grant Park
Section R105.2: Delete in its entirety (work exempt)
Section R105.5: Delete in its entirety (expiration)
Section R110.4: Delete in its entirety (temporary occupancy)
Section R112: Delete in its entirety (board of appeals)
Table R301.2(1): Insert:
 
            Wind                  Subject To Damage From               Winter
Ground Snow Speed Seismic                                              Design
Load        (mph) Design Category Weathering Frost Line Depth Termite  Temp.

25          90    B               Severe     42"              Moderate 0
 
 
 
Ice Barrier Underlayment Flood Hazards  Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp.
Required
Yes                      See local maps 2000               50 deg.
 
Chapters 25 through 32: Delete in their entirety
Chapters 33 through 42: Delete in their entirety
   (E)   International Mechanical Code: The following insertions, deletions,
additions or changes shall be made to the 2006 international mechanical code:
Section 101.1: Insert: village of Grant Park
Section 106.5.1: Delete in its entirety
Section 106.5.2: Insert: See section
4-1-7 of the Grant Park code
Section 106.5.3: Delete in its entirety
Section 108.4: Delete in its entirety
Section 108.5: Delete in its entirety
Section 109: Delete in its entirety
   (F)   Reserved.
   (G)   International Property Maintenance Code: The following insertions,
deletions, additions or changes shall be made to the 2006 international
property maintenance code, and appendices:
Section 101.1, insert: "village of Grant Park".
Section 102.3, change to read "Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the international building code, international
mechanical code, national electrical code, and the most recent adoption of the
Illinois plumbing code adopted by the village. Nothing in this code shall be
construed to cancel, modify or negate any provision of the zoning ordinance."
Section 102.4, add "The village shall have the right to cause the demolition,
repair or enclosure of unsafe buildings as provided for in chapter 65, article
11, division 31, of the Illinois Compiled Statutes without following any of the
procedures and notice requirements of this code."
Section 103, delete in full.
Section 104.1, add "The building commissioner shall be the code official. The
code official may designate any employee of the village with the enforcement of
this code."
Section 106.2, change to read "The code official may serve a notice of
violation, but no such notice is a prerequisite to the existence of a violation
or to action by the village to restrain, correct or abate such violation."
Section 106.3, change to read "The code official may institute court
proceedings to restrain, correct or abate any violation, or to require the
removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of any structure, or the order
or direction of the code official. Any action taken on such premises shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate."
Section 106.4, change to read "Any person who violates any provision of this
code shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $5000 for
each violation thereof. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense and violation."
Section 107, delete in full.
Section 108.1.1, add "No structure may be boarded up for more than 6 months. An
unsafe structure includes any structure boarded up for more than 6 months."
Section 108.3, change to read "Whenever the code official has condemned a
structure or equipment, notice shall be sent by first class mail to the
taxpayer of record or the party responsible for paying any water bill. The
notice shall include a statement of the violations and a deadline by which to
correct the violations."
Section 110.1, change to read "The code official may order the demolition of
any structure which is:
      1.   Dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy.
      2.   A public nuisance.
      3.   Vacant or abandoned for more than 6 months.
      4.   Boarded up for more than 6 months.
      5.   Under construction where there has been a cessation of normal
construction activity for a period of more than 6 months.
      6.   Maintained in violation of the provisions of this code for more than
6 months."
Section 110.2, change to read "A notice of order of demolition shall be
serviced as provided for in chapter 65, article 11, division 31, of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes."
Section 111, delete in full.
Section 201.3, change to read "Where terms are not defined in this code and are
defined in the international building code, international fire code,
international mechanical code, national electrical code, or zoning ordinance,
such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those codes."
Section 301.3, add "No structure shall be maintained which is:
      1.   Dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy.
      2.   A public nuisance.
      3.   Vacant or abandoned for more than 6 months.
      4.   Boarded up for more than 6 months.
      5.   Under construction where there has been a cessation of normal
construction activity for a period of more than 6 months.
      6.   In violation of the provisions of this code for more than 6 months."
Section 304.3, add "Street numbers must be attached to the structure (or light
pole or mailbox) and may not be painted thereon. Street numbers may not be
painted on any stairway, stoop, sidewalk, curb, or other area."
Section 304.14, insert "May 1" and "October 1".
Section 404.5, add "If any room used for residential purposes is overcrowded,
the code official may order the number of persons sleeping or living in said
room to be reduced in order to conform to the minimum area requirements of
table 404.5. It shall be prohibited to use for sleeping purposes any kitchen,
hallway, closet, basement, storage room, public area, dining room or living
room (except that a living room may be used for sleeping purposes of a guest
for not more than 2 consecutive nights)."
Section 602.2, change to read "Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 65°F in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms. Cooking appliances shall not be used to
provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section."
Section 602.3, insert "October 1" and "May 1". Delete the last sentence in the
exception.
Section 602.4, insert "October 1" and "May 1".
   (H)   National Electrical Code: The following insertions, deletions and
additions or changes shall be made to the 2011 national electrical code:
The use of aluminum conductor or wire is prohibited for all new installations.
All branch circuits shall have a minimum gauge of no. 12, 20-amp for all new
construction and renovation projects, both commercial and residential. All
refrigerators, deep freezers and microwaves shall be connected by individual
branch circuits. Metal conduit shall be used for all new and renovated
electrical services from the point of attachment at the Commonwealth Edison
wires to the main distribution point. All new exposed wiring shall be in metal
conduit. All wiring for commercial, industrial, office, public purpose building
or residential multi-family buildings with greater than four (4) units shall be
installed in heavy wall conduit, thin wall conduit, or approved metal raceways.
All unfinished garages and basements shall be wired in EMT or rigid metal
conduit. Romex shall be permitted as the means of wiring for all residential
construction of four (4) units or less. Romex is not to be exposed wiring;
provided, however, exposed wiring shall be permitted for a vertical run not
exceeding two feet (2') from the main distribution panel to the ceiling if the
distribution panel is in a basement.
All fire alarm boxes shall be identified in red at the time of rough
inspection.
All potential areas for ceiling fans shall have approved ceiling fan boxes
installed at time of rough inspection. All flexible conduits shall be supplied
with a ground wire regardless of length.
All electrical fixtures used in a grid ceiling shall be supported by grid
ceiling wires to the main structure: one (1) for small fixtures; and, two (2)
for any item two feet (2') or greater. Exception: Fixtures attached to
suspended ceiling framing members may be secured with screws, bolts, rivets, or
listed clips identified for application.
All electrical outlets must be visible at time of final inspection.
   (I)   International Fuel Gas Code: The following insertions, deletions,
additions or changes shall be made to the 2006 international fuel gas code:
Section 101.1: Insert: village of Grant Park
Section 106.5.1: Delete in its entirety
Section 106.5.2: Insert: See section
4-1-7 of the Grant Park code
Section 106.5.3: Delete in its entirety
Section 108.4: Replace with section
4-1-18 of the Grant Park code
Section 108.5: Replace with section
4-1-18 of the Grant Park code
Section 109: Delete in its entirety
   (J)   International Energy Conservation Code: The following insertions,
deletions, additions or changes shall be made to the 2006 international energy
conservation code:
Section 101.1: Insert: village of Grant Park
   (K)   Studs And Rafters: All new home buildings and additions shall have
interior partition walls, exterior walls, floor joists, ceiling joists and
rafters placed no farther than sixteen inches (16") on center.
   (L)   Eaves And Overhangs: All new residential construction shall have eaves
and overhangs built at a minimum of twelve inches (12").
      1.   Exceptions:
         (a)   A remodel or addition which needs a small allowance to meet
existing construction.
         (b)   Dormers, due to their size, may reduce overhangs and eaves to
allow them to appear proportional.
   (M)   Rebar: All footings must contain two (2) continuous horizontal rows of
a minimum no. 4 rebar. All footings will be required to have a keyway placed in
the center of the footing measuring a minimum of two inches wide by one inch
deep (2" x 1").
All poured foundation walls shall have a minimum of two (2) continuous no. 4
horizontal reinforcing bars. One shall be placed at forty eight inches (48") on
center and one shall be placed within twelve inches (12") of the top of the
wall story.
All required rebar shall be in place and supported by an approved system prior
to the placement of concrete.
   (N)   Driveway And Public Walk Installation Dates: No private driveway,
public walk, or other flat work likely to see road salt as determined by the
Building Director may be poured between the dates of November 1 and April 1
unless otherwise approved by the Building Director.
   (O)   Driveways: The materials and methods of construction shall conform to
the "Illinois Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction", latest edition or ICC guidelines, whichever is more
restrictive.
      1.   All aprons for driveways between curb and sidewalk shall be made of
concrete a minimum four inches (4") in thickness, reinforced with fiber mesh.
      2.   The contractor may select one of the following options for
residential driveway construction on private property or radius entrances to
right-of-way:
         (a)   Material shall be base course consisting of IDOT gradation CA-6,
CA-7 or CA-10, eight inches (8") in thickness, and surface course consisting of
bituminous concrete surface course, two and one-half inches (21/2") in
thickness (asphalt). All thicknesses shall be measured with materials in place
and compacted.
         (b)   Material shall be base course consisting of IDOT gradation CA-6,
CA-7 or CA-10, four inches (4") in thickness, and class PV portland cement,
four inches (4") in thickness, reinforced with fiber mesh. All thickness shall
be measured with materials in place and compacted.
         (c)   Material shall be base course consisting of IDOT gradation CA-
10, eight inches (8") in thickness (gravel). All thickness shall be measured
with materials in place and compacted.
         (d)   Control joints shall be constructed so as to divide the driveway
and driveway apron from the sidewalk. The control joints shall be not less than
one-eighth inch (1/8") nor more than one-fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall
be edged with an edging tool having a one-fourth inch (1/4") radius. The
minimum depth shall be one and one-fourth inches (11/4").
Any alternate materials, in addition to those described above shall be
presented to the Village Engineer for his approval prior to inclusion in the
construction drawings and specifications. No bituminous surface treatment (oil
and chip surfaces) will be allowed.
      3.   All curb cuts necessary for driveways accessing Village streets
shall be completed as follows:
         (a)   Curbed Entrances: For entrances with a curbed radius, the
complete concrete curb and gutter shall be removed and then replaced with a new
combination concrete curb and gutter (depressed) according to the "Illinois
Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", latest edition (IDOT specifications).
         (b)   Aprons: For entrances with aprons, the apron on the right- of-
way shall be made of concrete. The concrete curb and gutter may be either
removed and replaced with new combination concrete curb and gutter (depressed)
according to IDOT specifications, or may be altered by sawing off the back of
the curb using a machine mounted saw specifically manufactured for removing the
backs of curbs.
         (c)   Joint Between Curb And Entrance: At no time shall any portion of
the combination concrete curb and gutter be poured as an integral part of the
driveway. A joint using three- fourths inch (3/4") preformed bituminous
expansion joint filler shall be provided between the back of the curb and the
driveway portion.
         (d)   No Curb Cut Required: Residential driveways with aprons may be
finished off to match the top of the existing curb without a curb cut, if and
only if such curb is a modified M3:12 or at a height less than three inches
(3") measured up from the gutter pan flow line.
      4.   All gutter pans or gutters shall be kept clear of all materials. No
concrete, asphalt or any other material will be permitted in the gutter pan.
This prohibitive restriction also applies to pipes or any other device placed
in the gutter pans to provide a better approach to the driveway.
      5.   Driveways shall be constructed at a grade ranging between three
percent (3%) and six percent (6%) from the garage to the street unless the
Village Engineer specifically approves a greater slope.
   (P)   Open Cutting Of Pavements: Open cutting of existing Village pavements
and/or curbs shall require a permit from the Village. In some instances, the
Village may require boring and jacking under the pavement instead of open
cutting.
   (Q)   Sidewalks:
      1.   Specifications: Sidewalks are to be located on the right- of-way,
the nearest edge being one foot (1') from the property line. The sidewalks are
to be five inches (5") higher than the curb on the side close to the curb, and
six inches (6") higher than the curb on the side far from the curb.
      2.   Public Sidewalks Intersecting With Street Curb And Gutter: The back
of the curb at this point of intersection shall be depressed and shall not
exceed one-half inch (1/2") elevation over the flow line of the gutter pan.
The materials and methods of construction shall conform to the "Illinois
Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", latest edition or ICC guidelines whichever is more restrictive.
         (a)   Material shall be base course consisting of IDOT gradation CA-6,
CA-7 or CA-10, four inches (4") in thickness, and Class SI portland cement
concrete, four inches (4") in thickness, reinforced with fiber mesh. All
thicknesses shall be measured with materials in place and compacted.
         (b)   Width shall be five feet (5') except where the Planning
Commission or Village Engineer deems a wider sidewalk necessary.
         (c)   Control joints shall be constructed at right angles to the
centerline of the sidewalk and shall extend one-fourth inch (1/4") the depth of
the sidewalk. They shall not be less than one-eighth inch (1/8") nor more than
one-fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall be edged with an edging tool having
a one- fourth inch (1/4") radius.
   (R)   Pedestrian Walkways: Pedestrian walkway improvements shall conform to
the specifications for sidewalks, including the width requirement. The sidewalk
shall generally be centered in the pedestrian walkway.
   (S)   Flat Work: All exterior flat work must be reinforced with fiber mesh.
Wire may be used in addition but not as an alternative.
      1.   All basement floors will be required to have control joints in place
within forty eight (48) hours of completing the pour.
   (T)   Backfill: All exterior areas of a home which will eventually have flat
work in place not supported by foundation must be backfilled with a
noncompactable stone.
      1.   All over digs within the foundation area of the garage and front
stoops must be backfilled with a noncompactable stone or a properly compacted
stone or an alternative approved by the Building Director. All requests for
alternatives must be made in writing.
      2.   Crushed lime may be used as an approved base for areas contained
within foundation walls.
   (U)   Foundations: Foundations which are intended to be used for a brick
ledge must be stepped down a minimum of four inches (4") to support the brick.
   (V)   Private Walkways: All walkways located on private property shall be
constructed according to the following specifications:
      1.   Material shall be base course consisting of IDOT gradation CA-6, CA-
7 or CA-10, four inches (4") in thickness, and Class SI portland cement
concrete, four inches (4") in thickness, reinforced with fiber mesh. All
thickness shall be measured with materials in place and compacted.
      2.   Control joints shall be constructed at right angles to the
centerline of the sidewalk and shall extend one-fourth inch (1/4") the depth of
the walkway. They shall not be less than one-eighth inch (1/8") nor more than
one-fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall be edged with an edging tool having
a one- fourth inch (1/4") radius or equivalent saw cut. The maximum spacing of
control joints shall not exceed the width of the sidewalk. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-
20-2017)
4-1-14: EXTERIOR WALL COVERING MATERIALS:
   (A)   Compliance: Any new building or additions constructed on any real
property zoned and classified as a multi-family residential, commercial,
manufacturing or industrial district under the official zoning map of the
Village and its zoning regulations shall comply with all items and provisions
of this section.
   (B)   Front Elevations:
      1.   In multi-family residential districts, shall consist of not less
than fifty percent (50%) of primary materials and not more than fifty percent
(50%) of secondary materials as listed in this section.
      2.   In commercial districts, shall consist of not less than ninety
percent (90%) of primary materials and not more than ten percent (10%) of
secondary materials as listed in this section.
      3.   In industrial districts, shall consist of not less than thirty
percent (30%) of primary materials with the remainder percent of secondary
materials as listed in this section.
   (C)   Side And Rear Elevations:
      1.   In multi-family residential districts, shall consist of not less
than fifty percent (50%) of primary materials and not more than fifty percent
(50%) of secondary materials as listed in this section.
      2.   In commercial districts, shall consist of not less than seventy
percent (70%) of primary materials and not more than thirty percent (30%) of
secondary materials as listed in this section.
      3.   In industrial districts, shall consist of not less than thirty
percent (30%) of primary materials with the remainder percent of secondary
materials as listed in this section.
   (D)   Structural Elements:
      1.   All new buildings, developments, moved buildings, and additions in
the multi-family residential, commercial, or industrial districts of the
Village of Grant Park shall have exterior walls with approved weather resistant
coverings of primary materials as listed, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Face brick.
         (b)   Common brick.
         (c)   Solid masonry.
            (1)   Split face (block or brick).
            (2)   Exposed aggregate.
            (3)   Natural stone.
         (d)   Precast and/or poured concrete.
            (1)   Exposed aggregate.
         (e)   Dryvit or equal.
         (f)   Glass.
         (g)   Ceramics.
         (h)   Marble and/or granite or equal.
         (i)   Cultured stone or brick.
         (j)   Cement board siding.
      2.   The secondary materials as listed, but not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Architectural metals.
         (b)   Wood or wood products or equal.
         (c)   Vinyl.
         (d)   Aluminum.
         (e)   Clad metals.
         (f)   Metal lap siding shall be allowed after review and
recommendation by the Planning Commission and approval by the Village Board.
      3.   In any design in which the structural frame is exposed to view, the
structural materials shall be compatible within themselves and harmonious to
their surroundings.
      4.   All materials shall be of a permanent nature and require a minimum
amount of maintenance.
   (E)   Exterior Materials For Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings
over one hundred twenty (120) square feet shall be sided with comparable
materials to the primary structure, however, masonry brick will not be required
to match the primary structure. No vertical metal siding shall be allowed on
any accessory building. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-15: ACCESSORY BUILDING/STRUCTURE FOUNDATIONS:
No accessory building/structure ("accessory building") shall be constructed or
added onto without first obtaining a building permit. Accessory buildings must
have an approved floor, concrete, wood, or other similar surface. All buildings
shall be built with a minimum gravel base or manufactured floor kit of a
moisture resistant nature and be built to avoid rodent or varmint infestation.
All accessory buildings shall be anchored to avoid uplift from wind. Buildings
not stick built over a concrete slab will be required to have at least two (2)
attached ground anchors at opposite corners of building.
   (A)   The following shall be the maximum allowed dimensions for accessory
buildings:
      1.   No accessory building shall be more than two percent (2%) of the
total lot square footage. However, in no event shall an accessory shed exceed
three hundred fifty (350) square feet regardless of the total lot square
footage. For accessory buildings larger than three hundred fifty (350) square
feet, see requirements for garages.
      2.   The maximum height of the walls for any accessory building shall be
eight feet (8'). "Walls" shall mean the exterior face of the accessory building
as measured from ground level to the roof.
      3.   No accessory building shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height
measured from ground level.
   (B)   The following shall be the concrete and foundation anchorage
requirements for a stick building:
      1.   Turndown footing measuring a minimum of twelve inches deep and six
inches wide (12" x 6").
      2.   A minimum anchor bolt diameter of one-half inch (1/2").
      3.   No anchor bolt shall be spaced farther than six feet (6') on center
or twelve inches (12") from each plate section or corner of the structure.
      4.   Anchor bolts must be embedded at least seven inches (7").
      5.   Anchor bolts must be attached to a plate with washers and nuts.
No accessory building shall be sided with metal, unless material is galvanized
and painted, or equivalent, and not needed for structural support of building
as determined by Building Director.
Minimum two by two (2 x 2) framing construction will be required.
All accessory buildings must be placed behind the primary structure (back yard)
or in the case of a corner lot, placement in the side yard shall be permitted.
No accessory building shall be located closer than five feet (5') from any
property line. Accessory buildings shall not be permitted in any easement or
placed at a location so as to impede the drainage of a neighboring property.
Prefabricated sheds not constructed or placed on a concrete slab shall be
allowed to be placed in a public utility easement not considered an overland
drainage easement, provided the owner completes the easement waiver provided by
the Building Department. The easement waiver acknowledges owner notification
that in the event the shed is placed in a public utility easement, the owner
shall assume all costs associated with the removal or location modification by
any utility company for access to the easement. The Village shall not be held
liable for any subsequent damages to said shed or its contents by permitting
the shed to be placed in the easement. The owner shall assume the
responsibility to notify all utility companies of the intent to place a shed in
a public utility easement. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-16: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter or in the codes hereby adopted shall be construed to
affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or
liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing,
under any act or ordinance hereby repealed by this chapter; nor shall any just
or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-17: CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES:
In any case where a provision of any code adopted by reference in this chapter
or any other provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other code or ordinance of the Village existing on the
effective date hereof, the provision which established the higher standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall
prevail. In any case where a provision of any other ordinance or code of the
Village existing on the effective date hereof established a lower standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, the
provisions of this chapter or of any code adopted by reference in this chapter
shall be deemed to prevail and such other ordinances or codes are hereby
declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with
this chapter or code adopted by reference in this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-
20-2017)
4-1-18: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues. Any
work done, actions taken or projects completed without the required permit or
inspections shall, without exception, be subject to all application
requirements, fees, inspections and all penalties as provided for in this
chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-19: RESIDENTIAL GARAGES:
   (A)   Zoning Ordinance: All garages must be located and constructed in
compliance with the provisions of title 9 of this Code. The regulations in this
section are in addition to any zoning regulations.
   (B)   Policy: Garages are allowed as accessory uses in the various
residential districts as provided for in each district and shall be compatible
with the principal use. Each residence shall be allowed garage space as set
forth in this section, whether attached or detached, and all residential
garages are subject to the requirements of this section. All garages in excess
of five hundred (500) square feet shall be constructed on a full foundation.
Only one curb cut per street is allowed.
   (C)   Definitions:
ATTACHED GARAGE: A garage which is joined to the primary dwelling on the lot.
Such garage shall be on a full foundation, whether it is an integral part of
the structure, connected by a porch, or connected by a breezeway.
DETACHED GARAGE: A garage which is entirely surrounded by open space on the
same lot as the primary dwelling. A garage attached by a porch or breezeway
which lacks a full foundation shall also be considered a detached garage.
   (D)   Detached Garages:
      1.   A detached garage may be built on a residential lot that also
contains an attached garage. Such a detached garage must be accessible via an
approved driveway, which meets the design requirements of section
 9-12-4 of this Code, which connects the garage to the street or alley access
apron.
      2.   Only one detached garage may be built per lot. The garage must be
built in a rear yard, and the area of the detached garage may not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the rear yard area.
      3.   The construction of all detached garages shall require the
submission of a plat of survey for the lot which establishes lot lines,
easements and drainage issues.
      4.   No metal sided or pole type detached garages shall be allowed.
      5.   The maximum height of the walls of a detached garage shall not
exceed nine feet six inches (9'6").
      6.   The maximum pitch of the roof of a detached garage shall not exceed
the predominant pitch of the primary residence's roof, and the roof shall be no
higher than the primary residence's roof.
      7.   No detached garage shall be built in such a fashion that the garage
may be converted or used as a permanent residence.
   (E)   Maximum Size Of Garages:
      1.   E-1, R-1 And R-2 Zone Requirements: All residential structures shall
provide a garage having space for storage of a minimum of two (2) passenger
vehicles.
      2.   Maximum Area: The maximum area of all garages, whether attached,
detached, or both, shall not exceed eight hundred sixty (860) square feet or
forty eight percent (48%) of the total square footage of livable floor area,
whichever is greater.
      3.   Garage Doors:
         (a)   Garage overhead door openings shall not exceed eight feet (8')
in height.
         (b)   The maximum amount of a primary structure's front facade devoted
to garage overhead doors (and spaces between garage overhead doors) shall not
exceed sixty percent (60%). (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-1-20: STORAGE PODS:
   (A)   Upon application and payment of twenty dollars ($20.00), an applicant
is permitted to have on his property a storage pod, or any similar temporary
structure used by persons residing or moving into the property, for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) days. No extensions, above and beyond the thirty (30)
days provided for in this section, shall be permitted. No storage pod, or any
portion of that structure, shall be placed within any Village right-of-way or
easement. For purposes of this section "storage pod" means any structure
purchased or leased that is employed for the storage of articles, goods or
other personal property which is not affixed to real property and does not
contain wheels which are inseparable from the structure itself.
   (B)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this section, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day a person
violates or remains in violation of this section shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Base Flood Elevation
4-2-4: Duties Of The Responsible Official
4-2-5: Development Permit
4-2-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
4-2-7: Protecting Buildings
4-2-8: Subdivision Requirements
4-2-9: Public Health And Other Standards
4-2-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
4-2-11: Variances
4-2-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
4-2-13: Penalty
4-2-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this village
by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
4-2-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   (A)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   (B)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   (C)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   (D)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   (E)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   (F)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   (G)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village of Grant Park,
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of Grant Park, or that may be
annexed into the village of Grant Park, that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The floodplains of the village of Grant Park are generally
identified as such on panel number(s) 0095, 0015, 0235 and 0255 on the flood
insurance rate map of Kankakee County prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated January 20, 2010. Floodplain also includes those
areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Kankakee County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of Grant Park or that
may be annexed into the village of Grant Park are generally identified as such
on the flood insurance rate map prepared for Kankakee County by the federal
emergency management agency and dated January 20, 2010.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the village of Grant Park
shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or other
sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   (C)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
4-2-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement, was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter,
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   (A)   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   (B)   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   (B)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the floodways of
Kankakee County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed to determine base flood elevations.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the flood insurance rate map of the village of
Grant Park shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Kankakee County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village of Grant Park, or that may be annexed into the
village of Grant Park, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in
the flood insurance study of Kankakee County prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated January 20, 2010. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-4: DUTIES OF THE RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL:
The village president or his designee shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village of Grant Park meet
the requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the village president or his
designee shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with section
4-2-5 of this chapter;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
4-2-6 of this chapter;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
4-2-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built" elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
4-2-8 of this chapter;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
4-2-9 of this chapter;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
4-2-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
4-2-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this
chapter;   
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the village president or his designee. The village
president or his designee shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
4-2-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the village
president or his designee shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The village president or his designee shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
The village president or his designee shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals
or permit not required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The village president or his designee shall not issue a permit unless all other
federal, state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-
2010)
4-2-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the flood insurance rate map, and within all
other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the following
standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety.
The following specific development activities shall be considered as meeting
this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources statewide permit number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot, and
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half feet (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         (a)   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         (f)   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet
(10').
         (c)   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         (i)   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow.
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corp of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6:
         (a)   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
            (2)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are
made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures.
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in subsection (A)8(a) of
this section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural
areas provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protections act 2 .
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank.
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s), and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         (b)   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel.
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel, and
         (c)   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure, and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
stream bank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition
number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in subsection (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 2. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
4-2-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
         (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
4-2-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation.
This building protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
4-2-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage,
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed,
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.      
         (d)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
         (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently
installed on site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection (B) of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection (D) of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The board of trustees of the village of Grant Park shall take into account
hazards, to the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to
land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
4-2-6 and
4-2-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
4-2-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
4-2-6 and
4-2-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
4-2-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 10-06-07-4,
6-7-2010)
4-2-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the village of Grant Park shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board of appeals
for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the board of
trustees of the village of Grant Park. The board of trustees of the village of
Grant Park may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The zoning board of appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of
section
4-2-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
4-2-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
4-2-6 and
4-2-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village of Grant Park or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the village president or his
designee may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The village president or his designee shall notify the owner in
writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The village of Grant Park shall make application to the circuit
court for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such
other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The village of Grant Park shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   (B)   The village president or his designee shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
The village president or his designee is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in
writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop
work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village of Grant Park from taking
such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord.
10-06-07-4, 6-7-2010)
4-2-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the board of
trustees of the village of Grant Park to fulfill the requirements of the
national flood insurance program. However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance
easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 10-06-07-4, 6-7-
2010)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Intent Of Stormwater Management Concepts And Standards
4-3-2: Definitions And Abbreviations
4-3-3: Stormwater Runoff Management
4-3-4: General Principles And Permit Requirements
4-3-5: Permit Required
4-3-6: Application For Permit
4-3-7: Building Permit
4-3-8: Appeals
4-3-9: Responsibility
4-3-10: Retention Of Plans
4-3-11: Inspections
4-3-12: Record Drawings
4-3-13: Neighborhood Drainage Planning/Subdivision Plats
4-3-14: Operation Standards And Requirements
4-3-15: Fees And Bonds
4-3-16: Appeals And Variations
4-3-17: Revocation Of Permit
4-3-18: Violations And Penalties
4-3-1: INTENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS AND STANDARDS:
   (A)   The Village has, in the past, experienced damage to public and private
lands and improvements from excess stormwater runoff and flooding. Development,
which has increased the amount and rate of runoff, has aggravated the situation
as well as have developments which have allowed excessive quantities of soil to
erode, clogging and limiting the usefulness of drainageways.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter shall not be to preclude development but to
ensure that development enhances rather than detracts from or ignores the
natural topography, resources and amenities of the area. The intent of this
chapter is to set forth the parameters within which development may take place
by specifying stormwater management concepts and standards for drainage system
construction; requiring erosion and sedimentation control; regulating the
alteration of land and topography; regulating the removal of vegetation;
assuring the continued, efficient operation of the drainage system; and
protection of the natural stream system from alteration of its natural
function. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
   (A)   The following definitions shall be applicable to this chapter:
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit by the Village for the construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: The specific inspections and tests where required
have been performed, and that such tests comply with the applicable
requirements of this chapter.
CHANNEL: A depression formed in the topography of the earth's surface to carry
stormwater runoff through a specific area.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: Shall be considered hydraulically equivalent when it
maintains the existing storage capacity between the normal water level and 10-
year high water level and between the 10-year high water level and the 100-year
high water level.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation. (See also definition of stormwater runoff release rate.)
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of average end areas.
DAM: As defined by the Illinois department of natural resources.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release of this
runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DEVELOPER: Any person or persons engaged in development.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, construction of or substantial improvements to
buildings or other structures, the placement of mobile homes, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
DRY BOTTOM STORM DETENTION BASIN: A facility that is designed to drain after
temporary storage of stormwater flows, shall be normally dry, and contains
water only when excess stormwater runoff occurs.
ENGINEER: A registered professional engineer of Illinois.
EROSION: The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
EVENT: A short duration hydrologic occurrence, such as a period of rainfall or
elevated stream flow, that is brief in duration allowing certain hydrologic
components, such as evaporation and arrival times of rainfall, to be neglected.
A storm event is normally limited to ten (10) days or less.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of stormwater runoff which exceeds the
transportation capacity of storm sewers or natural drainage channels serving a
specific watershed.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FREEBOARD: The minimum difference in elevation (1 foot) between the crest (high
water elevation) of the overflow structure and the top of bank of the
stormwater detention basin.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
GROUNDWATER RECHARGE: Replenishment of existing natural underground water
supplies.
HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT: Compensatory storage maintains the existing storage
capacity between the normal water level and the 10-year high water level and
between the 10-year high water level and the 100-year high water level.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph or tabulation showing for a given location on a stream or
conduit, the flow rate with respect to time.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil.
LAND SURVEYOR: A registered surveyor of the state of Illinois.
LOW FLOW: The transport of flow of a minor or common volume of stormwater as
opposed to a high or peak volume of stormwater which would utilize overflow
facilities.
MITIGATION: When prescribed controls are not sufficient and additional measures
are required to offset the development, including those measures necessary to
minimize the negative effects which stormwater drainage and development
activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare. Examples of
mitigation include, but are not limited to: compensatory storage, soil erosion
and sediment control, channel restoration and wetland creation, enhancement,
and restoration.
NATURAL: Conditions existing prior to development resulting from physical,
chemical, and biological processes without intervention by man.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed by the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
100-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
OVERFLOW STRUCTURE: A structure designed to convey large flood flows safely
past the earth embankments of stormwater detention basins. An overflow
structure shall be provided for all stormwater detention basins.
PARCEL: All contiguous land under one ownership.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any person, firm or corporation, public or private, the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States Of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
POSITIVE GRAVITY OUTLET: A term used to describe the drainage of an area by
means of natural gravity so that it lowers the free water surface to a point
below the existing grade or invert of storm drains within the area.
RECOGNIZED AGENCY: An agency or governmental unit that has statistically and
consistently examined local climatic and geologic conditions and maintained
records as they apply to stormwater runoff. Recognized agencies include, but
are not limited to: technical release no. 55, urban hydrology for small
watersheds, engineering division, soil conservation service, United States
department of agriculture, latest edition, which shall be the methodological
standard to be applied hereunder. Alternate generally acceptable methods may be
approved on a case by case basis.
SAFE STORM DRAINAGE CAPACITY: The quantity of stormwater runoff that can be
transported within a channel, passage, conduit, tube, duct, or combination
thereof in such a manner that the elevation of the water does not rise
sufficiently above the level of the adjacent ground surface so as to cause
damage to structures of facilities located thereon.
SEDIMENT: Soil, sand, minerals, or other debris that has been disturbed or
eroded and transported by water, wind, gravity, or tracked by equipment tires.
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing driveways
and parking lots.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A written document from the village authorizing
improvement exhibited in the site development plan and subject to the
conditions and restrictions contained therein.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: Plan documents showing any proposed manmade changes to
improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, construction
of or substantial improvements to buildings or other structures, the placement
of mobile homes, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (Also Known As STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE): The
designed features within the village or that directly impact the village which
collect, convey, channel, hold, inhibit or divert the movement of stormwater.
This includes the design, development, improvement, installation, inspection,
operation, maintenance and oversight of all structural and natural stormwater
control systems of all types including, but not limited to: open drainage
channels, retention basins, wet bottom stormwater detention areas, dry bottom
stormwater detention areas, storm sewers, field tiles, conduits, pipelines,
pumping and ventilation stations, bioretention systems, and other planted
stormwater management buffers, structures, and real and personal property used
for support of the system. Also to ensure compliance with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws, statutes, ordinances, regulations and policies.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Water that results from precipitation which is not absorbed
by the soil or plant material.
STORMWATER RUNOFF RELEASE RATE: The rate at which stormwater runoff is released
from dominant to servient land.
STORMWATER STORAGE AREA: Areas designated to store excess stormwater runoff.
STREAM: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway that has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: All of the area that contributes stormwater runoff to a
given point.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use of maintenance of the land itself.
VEGETATION REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete
extraction, or killing by spraying.
VILLAGE: Village of Grant Park, Illinois.
WET BOTTOM STORMWATER DETENTION BASINS: A facility that is designed to be
maintained as free water surface or a pond, which accumulates water only when
excess stormwater runoff occurs.
   (B)   The following abbreviations when used in this chapter shall have the
designated meanings:
BFE   Base flood elevation
BMP   Best management practices
CFR   Code of federal regulations
CWA   Clean water act
EPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
FEMA  Federal emergency management agency
FIRM  Flood insurance rate map
IDNR  Illinois department of natural resources
IDPH  Illinois department of public health
IEPA  Illinois environmental protection agency
ISWS  Illinois state water survey
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
NRCS  Natural resources conservation service (was SCS)
SCS   Soil conservation service (now NRCS)
SWCD  Soil and water conservation district
SWP3  Stormwater pollution prevention plan
USACE U.S. army corps of engineers
 
(Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-3: STORMWATER RUNOFF MANAGEMENT:
   (A)   The controlled release and storage of excess stormwater runoff shall
be required in combination for all commercial, industrial, institutional,
governmental, utility, or other developments and for residential developments
that contain an area in excess of two (2) acres.
   (B)   The controlled release and storage of excess stormwater runoff from
all developments described above, shall not exceed the existing safe storm
drainage capacity of the natural downstream outlet channel or storm sewer
system, or that amount of existing runoff from the parcel of land in a
vegetative condition, whichever is less. The final release rate shall not
exceed the existing rate for all recurrence storm events up to and including
the 100-year storm event. The rate at which stormwater runoff is delivered to
an existing village owned designated stormwater storage area may be
unrestricted, but subject to prior village approval and agreement with the
village to purchase the required storage.
      1.   Release rates for new developments or redevelopments or
redevelopments shall be designed to control the peak rate of discharge from the
total property under development for the 100-year critical duration storm
event.
The allowable release rate for the 100-year critical duration storm event is:
 
Event Frequency         Maximum Release Rate
2-year rainfall event   Peak existing release rate (minus the area directly
                        released from the site)
100-year rainfall event Peak existing release rate (minus the area directly
                        released from the site)
 
If it is determined by the village that the safe downstream capacity of the
natural downstream (receiving) outlet channel or storm sewer storm drainage
system may not safely convey the allowable release rate(s), the release rate(s)
shall be lowered such that the receiving system can safely handle the detention
pond discharge. The applicant may be required to provide documentation that
downstream capacity is adequate and erosion prevention measures will be
installed.
      2.   ISWS bulletin 70 rainfall distributions shall be used for all design
rainfall events.
   (C)   A storm sewer conveyance system shall be designed with adequate
capacity to convey through the development the stormwater runoff from all
tributary upstream areas. Design of the system shall also take into
consideration control of stormwater velocity (minimum storm sewer design
velocity = 2 fps) to prevent erosion or other damage to the facility, which
will restrict its primary use. Construction of a low flow system of storm
sewers to carry the minor storm runoff and reshaping of the channel with a
minimum of five horizontal to one vertical (5:1) side slopes and bottom of a
width adequate to facilitate maintenance and carry the flood runoff without
eroding velocities may be required in the plans for land development.
      1.   A channel system shall be designed with adequate capacity to convey
through the development the stormwater runoff from all tributary upstream
areas. This channel shall be designed to carry the peak rate of runoff from a
100-year critical duration storm as published by the recognized agency,
assuming all storm sewers are blocked and that the upstream areas are fully
developed and have been saturated with antecedent rainfall (AMC = 4).
         (a)   No habitable structures shall be constructed within this
channel; however, streets and parking or playground areas and utility easements
shall be considered compatible uses.
         (b)   In the event that conveyance of the channel is reduced by
restrictions for reshaping, construction, or any other activity the village may
cause to have any restrictions removed at the expense of the party or parties
causing said restriction.
         (c)   Design of this channel system shall also take into consideration
control of stormwater velocity to prevent erosion or other damage to the
facility which will restrict its primary use. Depths of flow shall be kept to a
minimum and retention of channel configurations shall be totally under village
control. In the event that the area within this channel is reshaped or
restricted for use as a floodway, the village may cause to have any
restrictions removed at the expense of the party or parties causing said
restriction. Should the development contain an existing natural waterway, this
land configuration shall be preserved as part of the channel system.
         (d)   The lowest opening of all habitable structures shall have one
foot (1') of freeboard during the 100-year critical duration flood event.
      2.   Construction of a low flow system of storm sewers to carry the peak
rate of discharge from a 10-year storm of critical duration as published by the
recognized agency may be required in the plans for land development. All storm
sewer systems shall be designed using the Manning's "n" value of 0.013 and have
a minimum design velocity of two (2) fps.
      3.   Should the development contain a natural waterway, depressional
area, lake, pond, or wetland, this land configuration should be preserved. If
the configuration must be altered, the lost value must be mitigated.
         (a)   If channel modification occurs, the physical characteristics of
the modified channel shall meet the existing channel in length, cross section,
slope, sinuosity, and carrying capacity of the original channel. Hydraulically
equivalent compensatory storage is required for fill or structures and shall be
at least equal to the volume of floodplain lost. Channel modification must not
result in adverse flooding impact to adjacent property owners.
         (b)   All disturbed areas associated with a channel modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized immediately upon completion of site grading
construction.
         (c)   If the upstream drainage area exceeds one square mile, the
Illinois department of transportation division of water resources must be
notified and all relevant permits received before modification of the waterway
begins.
         (d)   Compensatory storage is required for fill or structures placed
in depressional areas, lakes, and ponds and shall be at least equal to the
volume of open water and flood storage lost.
         (e)   Filling of wetland areas will be avoided. If a wetland area is
to be filled, compensatory storage at least equal to the volume of flood
storage lost must be provided. Mitigation of the functional value of the
wetland may be required. A permit must be received from the U.S. army corps of
engineers before filling of any wetland area.
         (f)   The extent of any wetland must be delineated according to the
current federal wetland determination methodology.
      4.   The applicant shall submit a subsurface drainage inventory. The
inventory shall locate existing farm and storm drainage tiles by appropriate
methods performed by a qualified individual. All existing drain tile lines
damaged during the investigation shall be repaired in a method approved on site
by the village engineer.
               (a)   The applicant shall provide a topographical map of the
development site. The name, address, and phone number of the person or firm
conducting tile location investigation shall be included on this map. The
inventory shall include:
            (1)   Proof of notification to adjacent landowners.
            (2)   Aerial photographs.
            (3)   Proof of notification with any active drainage districts.
            (4)   Consultation with NRCS/SWCD.
            (5)   Other items as required by the village.
         (b)   Information collected during the drainage investigation shall be
used to design and develop a stormwater management system that is appropriate
for the development and connecting of tile lines on adjoining properties.
         (c)   Existing easements for any agricultural drainage systems located
underneath areas that will be developed shall be preserved. If no such easement
exists, an easement shall be dedicated to access, maintain, operate and repair
or replace the system.
         (d)   All agricultural drainage systems that serve upstream areas
outside of the development and that are located underneath areas that will be
developed shall be replaced with nonperforated storm sewer pipes or otherwise
protected to prevent root blockage. The existing drainage district system may
remain in place with the approval of the drainage district and the village.
         (e)   Agricultural drainage systems that, due to development, will be
located underneath streets, driveways, and other paved areas as allowed by this
chapter, shall be replaced with reinforced concrete storm sewer pipes.
         (f)   Agricultural drainage systems shall be relocated within the
development area when required by the village engineer or the village field
inspector. Such relocation shall maintain sufficient slope and capacity to
prevent sedimentation and to prevent an increase in scouring or structural
damage to the conduit. However, the relocated system shall not be required to
exceed the existing slope or capacity of the existing tile. If the system is
not under the authority of a drainage district, the village shall consider the
interests of those landowners who are served by the system when drainage
systems are relocated.
         (g)   Field tile systems disturbed during the process of development
shall be reconnected by those responsible for their disturbance unless
otherwise approved by the village engineer.
         (h)   Connection of agricultural tiles to stormwater systems shall be
discouraged. Where tiles are being connected to these stormwater systems or at
points of ingress or egress from the development sites, observation structures
or similar maintenance and inspection access structures shall be installed.
         (i)   Surface outflows onto adjoining properties not into a defined
channel shall be designed to release as sheet flow using level spreader
trenches or alternative designs as approved by the village engineer.
   (D)   The required volume to be provided in the stormwater detention basin
shall be calculated based on the need to restrict the runoff from a 100-year
frequency rainfall for the critical duration event (peak discharge) as
published by the recognized agency. The allowable release rates shall be
maintained while providing a minimum of one vertical foot of freeboard for the
100-year event. The volume for stormwater storage areas shall be calculated
using a hydrograph producing runoff calculation method, including HEC-HMS, HEC-
1, TR20, and Pond Pack. This volume of storage shall be provided for the fully
developed watershed that is tributary to the area designed for detention
purposes. The stormwater release rate (existing release rate minus unrestricted
release during the 100-year event) shall be considered when calculating the
stormwater storage capacity and the control structure designed to maintain a
relatively uniform flow rate regardless of the depth of stormwater in the
storage area. The modified rational formula may be acceptable for sites less
than two (2) acres, subject to approval by the village engineer.
      1.   General design requirements for stormwater detention basins shall
include:
         (a)   Temporary and permanent erosion control shall be required for
all detention basins in accordance with this chapter.
         (b)   Erosion protection shall be inspected by the owner or the
owner's representative throughout the project duration.
         (c)   To effectively reduce runoff volumes, the use of infiltration
practices including basins, trenches, and permeable pavement are encouraged.
The "Illinois Urban Manual" contains criteria for the design and use of these
practices. An appropriate sediment control device shall be provided to remove
coarse sediment from stormwater flows before they reach infiltration basins or
trenches. Engineering calculations demonstrating infiltration rates shall be
included with the application.
         (d)   Detention basin side slopes above normal pool shall be designed
with permanent erosion protection consisting of suitable vegetation or other
permanent finish. Topsoil must be provided per specific basin type design
criteria. Permanent erosion protection shall be aesthetically suitable to the
development or existing surrounding land use.
         (e)   All stormwater detention basins shall be provided with an
overflow structure capable of safely passing flows in excess of 100-year event
at a stage not exceeding one foot (1') above high water level. The top of the
lowest foundation grade in the vicinity of the detention basin shall be two
feet (2') above high water level. The design flow rate of the overflow
structure shall be equivalent to the 100-year peak inflow rate. A professional
engineer registered in the state of Illinois shall design weirs, dams and
specialized outflows.
         (f)   Detention basin outlets shall be constructed of reinforced
concrete pipe(s) with a minimum inside diameter of twelve inches (12"). Further
restriction to flow may be provided by a restrictor plate placed upstream of
the outlet. This may be achieved by constructing a concrete wall with a
"restrictor manhole". The orifice opening in the restrictor plate shall have a
minimum diameter of four inches (4"). More specialized designs shall be
required when release rates require restriction that cannot be achieved by the
minimum allowed four inch (4") diameter orifice opening. The more specialized
design shall include provisions to minimize clogging and that tend to self-
clean the restriction. Use of a slotted riser pipe may be considered as a last
resort, and if approved by the village engineer. However, the riser pipe must
be protected from damage due to mowing, weather, and other possible impacts.
         (g)   End sections shall be installed at all storm sewer outfalls into
a detention pond. The end section shall be precast concrete. Pipe twelve inches
(12") and larger shall have an integral bell and spigot jointing system with an
O-ring, polyisoprene rubber gasket meeting ASTMF-477. The gasket shall be
factory installed on the spigot end. End sections fifteen inches (15") or
larger in size shall have an IDOT protective grate.
         (h)   Bubble up outlets, pumped outlets and other active control
structures are prohibited.
         (i)   Temporary erosion techniques shall be used as required to ensure
a full stand of cover vegetation in minimum time.
         (j)   Detention basins and their 100-year design high water elevation
shall be contained within platted lots or easements dedicated for drainage
purposes.
         (k)   Detention basin lots shall have adequate access for maintenance
purposes as approved by the village engineer.
         (l)   Parking lot detention is intended for redevelopment areas and
shall be allowed only where approved by the village engineer. Parking lot
detention, when approved shall be in the aisleways not within the parking
stalls.
         (m)   Stormwater runoff from area tributaries to the property shall be
considered in the design of the property's drainage system. Flows from upstream
areas that are not to be detained should be routed around the basin being
provided for the site being developed.
         (n)   Where stormwater detention or retention basins are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork program unless otherwise agreed to by
the village engineer. The applicant on a regular basis and before project
completion shall remove any eroded sediment captured in these facilities in
order to maintain the design volume of the facilities.
         (o)   All stormwater detention or retention basin construction shall
examine potential impacts to adjacent agricultural land and shall address
measures that will be implemented to eliminate such impacts and comply with
other relevant permitting.
         (p)   Existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, or ponds shall not be modified
for the purposes of stormwater detention unless it is demonstrated that the
proposed modifications will maintain or improve their habitat and ability to
perform beneficial functions and shall comply with other relevant permitting.
Existing storage and release rate characteristics of wetlands, rivers, lakes,
ponds, or other depressional storage areas shall be maintained and the volume
of detention storage provided to meet the requirements of this section shall be
in addition to this existing storage.
         (q)   Site drainage patterns shall not be altered to substantially
decrease or increase the existing area tributary to wetlands, rivers, lakes or
ponds. Drainage patterns shall not be altered by development to direct runoff
off site to other than natural drainage outlets existing prior to development.
      2.   Verification and final approval requirements for stormwater
detention basins shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Erosion protection shall be inspected by the owner or the
owner's representative throughout the project duration.
         (b)   Detention basin storage volume shall be verified to the
satisfaction of the village engineer through as built surveys or other means
approved by the village engineer in advance.
         (c)   Inflow, outflow and emergency overflow elevations and
configurations shall be verified through as built surveys.
         (d)   Final vegetative cover and permanent erosion control shall be
inspected for completeness of cover.
         (e)   The basin will receive final approval upon fulfillment of
subsections (D)2(b), (D)2(c), and (D)2(d) of this section, and any and all
other requirements or agreements with the jurisdiction. The anniversary date of
maintenance and repair reporting will be recorded as such.
         (f)   All basins must receive final approval within ninety (90) days
of the substantial completion as determined by the village engineer of any of
the following:
            (1)   The first phase (as shown on approved plans) of construction
of public utilities and roadways in any approved subdivision project. Detention
structures for the ultimate development area must be constructed during the
first phase of the project, and approved at its completion unless otherwise
agreed to by the village. The detention structures must then be maintained and
repaired in conformance with this chapter, during future construction phases.
            (2)   Parking areas, floor slabs and/or other impervious areas (as
shown on approved plans, and not including sidewalks) for work on an individual
lot requiring an individual permit under this chapter. Phased construction will
be treated as in the above case.
            (3)   Mass earthwork or rough grading, if no other phased
construction is scheduled to be started within one hundred eighty (180) days.
      3.   Maintenance and repair responsibilities for stormwater detention
basins shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Detention basins and associated inflow and outflow systems are
maintained by the property owner absent any specific legal agreement to the
contrary.
         (b)   Maintenance agreements may be required at the option of the
village administrator or village engineer to define parties responsible for the
maintenance of detention basins.
         (c)   The detention basin owner shall be responsible for the following
items:
            (1)   An annual report on the detention basin condition shall be
submitted to the village engineer.
            (2)   At five (5) year intervals, the basin shall be inspected by a
professional engineer registered in the state of Illinois. A report of this
inspection shall be submitted to the village engineer within sixty (60) days of
the inspection. An annual report is not required the year the five (5) year
report is due.
            (3)   Detention basin owners shall notify subsequent owners of
their maintenance responsibilities and transfer basin maintenance records to
the party with active maintenance responsibility.
            (4)   These requirements shall be effective only for facilities
constructed after the passage of this chapter.
         (d)   Failure to receive final approval as required will be considered
a violation of this chapter.
         (e)   Final approval of the basin shall not constitute acceptance by
the village for dedication nor completion of this chapter's maintenance
requirements.
   (E)   Dry bottom stormwater storage areas shall be designed to serve a
secondary purpose for recreation, open space or other types of uses that will
not be adversely affected by occasional or intermittent flooding.
      1.   A method of carrying the low flow through these areas shall be
provided in addition to a system of drains, and both shall be provided with a
positive gravity outlet to a natural channel or storm sewer with adequate
capacity as described below.
      2.   The combination of storage of the water from a 100-year critical
duration storm and the design release rate shall not result in a storage
duration in excess of seventy two (72) hours.
      3.   The maximum depth of planned stormwater storage shall not exceed
four feet (4') unless the existing natural ground contours and other conditions
lend to greater storage depth, which shall be approved by the village engineer.
      4.   Minimum grades for turf areas shall be one percent (1%) and maximum
slopes shall be ten percent (10%) (10 units horizontally to 1 unit vertically).
Storage area side slopes shall be kept as close to the natural land contours as
practical and a twenty percent (20%) slope (5 units horizontally to 1 unit
vertically) or less shall be used wherever possible. If slopes greater than
twenty percent (20%) are necessary to meet storage requirements or area
restrictions, written approval shall be obtained from the village engineer and
suitable erosion control provided in addition to the protection required to
ensure public health, safety and welfare.
      5.   Outlet control structures shall be designed as simply as possible
and shall require little or no attention for proper operation.
      6.   Each stormwater detention basin shall be provided with a method of
emergency overflow, overflow weir, in the event that a storm in excess of the
100-year frequency storm occurs. This overflow weir shall be designed to
function without attention and shall become part of the natural or surface
channel system described below. The top of bank for the stormwater detention
area shall be one foot (1') higher than the water elevation going over the
overflow weir. Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all
design features.
      7.   Both outlet control structures and emergency overflow weirs shall be
designed and constructed to fully protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Stormwater runoff velocities shall be kept at a minimum and turbulent
conditions at an outfall control structure will not be permitted without
complete protection for the public safety. The use of restrictive fences shall
be kept to a minimum and used only as a last resort when no other method is
feasible.
      8.   Appropriate soil conditions shall be provided in the basin. First,
compaction of both subsoil and topsoil shall be minimized (i.e., to less than
275 psi). Where subsoil compaction cannot be avoided, it should be worked to a
depth of six (6) to eight inches (8") before spreading topsoil. Second,
suitable uncompacted topsoil, at a minimum thickness of one foot (1') shall be
spread to provide a suitable growing medium for plants. Coarse soils with
minimal clay content and a high organic content are required.
      9.   Velocity dissipation measures shall be incorporated into dry basin
designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets and to minimize resuspension
of pollutants.
      10.   The distance between detention inlets and outlets shall be
maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at opposite ends of the basin providing
that the orientation does not create undue hardship based on topography or
other natural constraints. Designers are encouraged to use baffles or berms in
the basin bottom to prevent short circuiting of low flows.
      11.   A sediment trap shall be constructed at each major inlet to a dry
basin during construction. The temporary sediment trap shall be designed in
accordance with criteria in the "Illinois Urban Manual".
      12.   Dry bottom basins, intended to be used for aesthetics and wildlife
shall have native plantings. This type of dry bottom basin shall be used only
if approved by the village. Deep rooted plants are required to encourage
infiltration of the water into the ground. A mixture of wet mesic and mesic
plants shall be used within the dry bottom basin. This zone can be seeded, and
a minimum of ten (10) pounds of pure live seed per acre is required. The seed
mix shall contain a variety of grasses, sedges, rushes and forbs. A minimum of
five (5) grasses, sedges, rushes and forbs are required. A nurse crop of annual
plants shall also be used to help stabilize the soils and provide conditions
suitable for the germination and growth of perennial plants.
   (F)   Wet bottom stormwater storage areas shall be designed with all of the
items required for dry bottom stormwater storage areas, except that a low flow
conduit and a system of drains with a positive gravity outlet shall be
eliminated. However, the following additional conditions shall be complied
with:
      1.   Shoreline protection shall be provided to prevent erosion from wave
action.
      2.   Minimum normal water depth shall be four feet (4'), excluding near
shore zones and safety ledges.
      3.   If a fish habitat is to be provided, the basin depth shall be at
least ten (10) to twelve feet (12') deep over twenty five percent (25%) of the
bottom area to prevent winterkill. These ponds must also have stormwater best
management practices upstream of the pond to reduce and minimize siltation,
high nutrient loads, and other water quality concerns.
In addition to pond shape and vegetation, additional habitat features are
required to increase fish habitat. To help with fish spawning, random placement
of pea gravel on the safety bench is required. Each pea gravel spawning area
shall be approximately twenty five (25) square feet in size and four inches
(4") thick.
Random placement of rock piles and/or bundles of wood branches shall be placed
at pond depths of eight feet (8') to twelve feet (12'). The Illinois department
of natural resources has guidelines for assembling these types of fish
structures.
Fishing access along the shoreline is required. The access area shall have a
hard bottom, such as ledger stone/flagstone and access areas shall be placed at
a minimum of once every two hundred fifty feet (250') of shoreline. Paths shall
be provided to the access areas, and shall be five feet (5') wide PCC sidewalk.
      4.   Facilities shall be available to allow the pond level to be lowered
by gravity flow for cleaning purposes and shoreline maintenance and public
safety. If a positive gravity outlet is not provided by the developer, the
developer may be required to provide a pumping system to be approved by the
village for the above purpose.
      5.   Control structures for stormwater release shall be designed to
operate at full capacity with only a minor increase in the water surface level.
Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design features.
      6.   Aeration facilities to prevent pond stagnation shall be provided.
Design calculations to substantiate the effectiveness of these aeration
facilities shall be submitted with final engineering plans. Agreements for the
perpetual operation and maintenance of aeration facilities shall be prepared to
the satisfaction of the village.
      7.   In the event that the water surface of the pond is to be raised for
purposes of storing water for irrigation or in anticipation of the
evapotranspiration demands of dry weather, the volume remaining for storage of
excess stormwater runoff shall still be sufficient to contain the 100-year
storm runoff.
      8.   Wet bottom detention basins shall be designed to remove stormwater
pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as much as feasible
to be available for recreational use.
      9.   Side slopes from the top of bank to at least one foot (1') below the
safety ledge shall be no steeper than five to one (5:1) and three to one (3:1)
from one foot (1') below the safety ledge to a depth of eight feet (8'). Slopes
below a depth of eight feet (8') are permitted to be two to one (2:1).
         (a)   Appropriate soil conditions shall be provided in the shoreline
zone. First, compaction of both subsoil and topsoil shall be minimized (i.e.,
to less than 275 psi). Where subsoil compaction cannot be avoided, it should be
disked to a depth of six (6) to eight inches (8") with a chisel plow before
spreading topsoil. Second, suitable uncompacted topsoil, at a minimum thickness
of one foot (1') shall be spread to provide a suitable growing medium for
aquatic plants. Coarse soils with minimal clay content and a high organic
content are recommended.
      10.   All wet detention basins shall have a level safety ledge.
      11.   The minimum permanent pool volume in a wet bottom basin at normal
depth shall be equal to the runoff volume from its watershed for the 2-year,
24-hour event.
      12.   The distance between detention inlets and outlets shall be
maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at opposite ends of the basin providing
that the orientation does not create undue hardship based on topography or
other natural constraints. Designers are encouraged to use baffles or berms in
the basin bottom to prevent short circuiting of low flows.
      13.   Water tolerant native vegetation or grass shall be used to
landscape the shorelines of wet detention facilities. The selected plants and
planting methods shall conform to the soils, hydrology, and water quality
conditions present in such facilities, with plants being tolerant of highly
variable hydrologic conditions and degraded water quality (e.g., high turbidity
and salinity content). Plant selection should conform to the guidance in the
"Native Plant Guide For Stream And Stormwater Facilities In Northeastern
Illinois" (NRCS et al., 1997), which is hereby adopted by reference. Native
vegetation is recommended, but not required, for side slopes of all detention
facilities.
      14.   Wet bottom basin design shall include an evaluation of soil
permeability. A basin liner shall be included in the design if needed to ensure
water retention to normal pool elevation.
   (G)   On stream detention basins are discouraged but will be considered if
they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other provisions of
this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the 100-year,
critical duration storm events from the property.
      1.   If on stream detention is used in watersheds larger than two hundred
(200) acres, the applicant will use hydrologic and hydraulic modeling to
demonstrate that the design will not increase the flood levels for any
properties upstream or downstream of the property.
      2.   Impoundment of the stream as part of on stream detention shall:
         (a)   Require the implementation of an effective nonpoint source
management program utilizing best management practices for runoff and sediment
reduction. This program is necessary to prevent direct discharge to the stream.
         (b)   Require the implementation of best management practices (BMPs)
for runoff reduction consistent with the hierarchy for minimization of runoff
volumes and rates as defined in this chapter.
         (c)   Require 2-year, 24-hour detention/sedimentation basins for all
development consistent with the criteria of temporary sediment trap in the
"Illinois Urban Manual".
         (d)   Require a program to control nonpoint sources at the source for
prior developments constructed without appropriate stormwater BMPs.
         (e)   Include a design for appropriate bank stabilization measures,
based on flow velocity calculations, and a presedimentation basin.
         (f)   Comply with other relevant permitting and/or ordinances.
      3.   Impoundment of the stream as part of on stream detention shall not:
         (a)   Prevent the migration of indigenous fish species, which require
access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for spawning.
         (b)   Cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality or
stream aquatic habitat.
         (c)   Involve any stream channelization or the filling of wetlands.
         (d)   Increase base flood elevations or high water levels of any
adjacent land.
   (H)   Fee in lieu of detention may be considered by the village for the
purpose of satisfying the requirements for stormwater detention or compensatory
storage. For a development or redevelopment on a property for which detention
or compensatory storage was not previously provided, a fee in lieu of detention
or compensatory storage may be assessed against the development prior to the
issuance of a permit. Fees shall be calculated to establish the property's fair
share of costs to provide detention or compensatory storage for the watershed
or drainage basin in which the property exists. The cost figures used for
detention shall be actual costs for detention or compensatory storage being
provided by contract or estimated costs for planned detention or compensatory
storage facilities approved by the appropriate jurisdiction official. All
revenues received through such fees shall be used for no purpose other than
defraying public costs associated with providing regional detention or
compensatory storage facilities.
   (I)   Paved surfaces that are to serve as stormwater storage areas shall
have minimum grades of one-half percent (1/2%) and shall be restricted to
storage depths of one foot (1') maximum. Rooftop storage shall be designed with
permanent type control inlets and parapet walls to contain runoff on the
rooftop. Emergency overflow areas shall be provided to ensure that the weight
of water stored will not exceed the structural capacity of the roof. Release
rates and storage volume requirements for paved storage areas remain the same
as outlined above. If a portion of an area within a stormwater storage area is
to be paved for parking or recreation purposes, the paved surface shall be
placed at the highest elevation within the storage areas as possible. Maximum
parking lot grades shall not exceed normal design parameters of three (3) to
five percent (5%).
   (J)   Where developments form only a portion of a watershed or contain
portions of several watersheds, the requirement for providing storage shall be
based upon the proportion of the area being developed as compared to the total
watershed tributary to the storage area. Compensating storage will be
acceptable only when approved by the village. As a watershed is developed with
a series of stormwater storage facilities, due consideration will be given for
calculation of the allowable release rate and capacity of the natural or
surface channel system described above.
   (K)   Plans, specifications and all calculations for stormwater runoff
control as required hereunder shall be submitted to the village for review and
approval prior to the approval of a final plat, in the case of subdivisions,
mobile home parks and planned unit developments, or issuance of a building
permit, in the case of commercial or industrial construction.
   (L)   Where development of a property presents the threat of flooding or
damage by flash runoff to downstream residents, the facilities for stormwater
runoff control shall be constructed prior to any earthmoving or drainage
construction on the project site.
   (M)   The construction of the stormwater control system shall be
accomplished as part of the cost of land development. If the amount of storage
capacity can be increased to provide benefits to the village, negotiations for
public participation in the cost of development may be feasible.
   (N)   The ability to retain and maximize the groundwater recharge capacity
of the area being developed is encouraged. Design of the stormwater runoff
shall give consideration to providing groundwater recharge to compensate for
the reduction in the percolation that occurs when the ground surface is paved
and roofed over. Specific design calculations and details shall be provided
with the final plans and specifications presented for village review. The use
of natural gravel deposits for the lower portions of storm runoff storage area,
the flattening of drainage slopes and the retention of existing topography are
examples of possible recharge methods.
   (O)   During the construction phases of land development, facilities shall
be provided to prevent the erosion and washing away of the earth. Silting of
downstream areas can be prevented through the strategic use of stilling basins,
sodding of runoff channels, and by limiting the period of time during which the
earth is stripped of vegetation.
   (P)   Final engineering plans shall show complete details for all of the
items covered in this chapter and shall be submitted for review and approved by
the village board prior to the start of construction. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-4: GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The following general principles shall apply to any movement of earth and any
sedimentation and erosion control plan and the granting of a permit for the
execution of said plan as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any given time
during development.
   (B)   Such minimum area exposure shall be kept to as short a duration of
time as is practical.
   (C)   Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or other
nonviable cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
   (D)   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps shall
be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from land
undergoing development.
   (E)   Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development.
   (F)   Permanent, final plant covering or structures shall be installed as
soon as possible.
   (G)   The plan of development shall relate to the topography and soils of
the site so that the lowest potential for erosion is created.
   (H)   Natural plant covering shall be retained and protected so far as is
consistent with developing the site. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Before land is cleared, graded, transported, or otherwise disturbed by
the movement of earth for purposes including, but not limited to, the
construction of buildings, site development for commercial, industrial and
residential purposes, the mining of minerals, including sand and gravel, the
development of golf courses, mobile home parks and the construction of roads
and streets by any person, partnership or corporation within the village, a
site development permit or building permit embodying the proposed earth
movement shall be obtained from the building inspector where development comes
under any one or more of the following provisions, unless such development is
exempted therefrom by subsection (B) of this section:
      1.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof, will exceed five
hundred (500) cubic yards.
      2.   Fill will exceed three feet (3') in vertical depth at its deepest
point measured from the natural ground surface.
      3.   Excavation will exceed four feet (4') in vertical depth at its
deepest point.
      4.   Excavation, fill or any combination thereof will exceed an area of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      5.   Plant cover is to be removed from an area exceeding five thousand
(5,000) square feet.
   (B)   A site development permit shall not be required in the following
cases:
      1.   Basements or excavations below finished grade for septic tanks and
drainfields, tanks, vaults, tunnels, equipment basements, swimming pools,
cellars or footings of buildings or structures for which a building permit
shall have been issued by the village, unless part of a development which would
otherwise require such a permit.
      2.   Excavation or removal of vegetation in public utility easements by
public utility companies for the purpose of installing underground utilities,
except when or where trench width disturbance is greater than four feet (4') in
width.
      3.   Tilling of the soil for fire protection purposes.
      4.   Engaging in the following, if, but only if, in connection with a
farming or other agricultural or conservation enterprise:
         (a)   The construction of sod waterways, or
         (b)   The construction of terraces, or
         (c)   The construction of surface water diversions, or
         (d)   The construction of grade stabilization structures, or
         (e)   The tilling of the soil. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   (A)   No site development or building permit shall be issued until said
developer submits a site development plan, together with other submissions
required by this chapter, and certifies that any land clearing construction or
development involving the movement of earth shall be in accordance with such
plan and submissions.
   (B)   Each application for a site development permit shall be made by the
owner of the property or his authorized agent to the building inspector on a
form furnished for that purpose. When grading or plant cover removal is
proposed as a part of the building permit, application may be combined, and one
plot plan in the number of copies required by the building inspector may be
submitted showing building plans and the site development plans. In such
instances, a land surveyor or engineer shall certify as to the accuracy of the
existing and proposed contour lines. Each application shall be accompanied by
the following, unless the director of building and zoning finds any item
unnecessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Vicinity Sketch: With respect to site developments, a vicinity
sketch, showing acreage of site, boundary line survey, zoning, type of proposed
sewer and water facilities, location of existing utilities, buildings and
drains on and within one hundred feet (100') of the site, together with a
legend and scale. There shall be included on or with such a vicinity sketch:
         (a)   A soil map of the subject property showing the predominant soil
types on the site. For the purpose of this chapter, the soil map shall be the
soil survey of Kankakee County, Illinois, prepared by the soil conservation
service of the USDA.
         (b)   Information on those areas abutting or adjacent to the site to
show existing drainage patterns and the drainage course that may affect, or be
affected by the development of the site.
         (c)   The name and address of the developer or owner.
         (d)   The name and address of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant, together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such
firm.
         (e)   Limits of the 100-year floodplain(s) as adopted by the federal
insurance administration for the flood insurance program.
         (f)   Areas to be sodded, seeded, mulched or paved.
         (g)   Acreage of area to be vegetatively stabilized, if any.
         (h)   Areas to be left undisturbed.
      2.   Existing Topography: With respect to site grading, existing
topography of the site and a one hundred foot (100') adjacent peripheral strip,
proposed contours and final grades, and street profiles; and indicating what
measures will be employed to protect cut and fill slopes from surface runoff.
      3.   Storm Drainage: Storm drainage by means of a plan based upon a
competent storm drainage study, including a drainage area map and computations,
and indicating what conditions now prevail at proposed and natural outlets such
as:
         (a)   Whether the drainage course is bare earth or vegetated.
         (b)   Whether the natural or proposed outlet is subject to long term
or continuous flow.
         (c)   Whether the existing outlet is actively eroding.
         (d)   Whether there is evidence of high water table (permanent or
seasonal), as indicated by the soil survey of Kankakee County, Illinois, as
prepared by the soil conservation service. This information may be supplemented
by site soil borings that show groundwater elevations.
         (e)   Whether the area is subject to seepage or spring flow.
         (f)   The elevation of normal water level in all proposed and natural
outlets.
         (g)   A profile below outlet for a sufficient distance to indicate the
natural gradient of the accepting natural outlet and/or stream channel.
         (h)   A cross section and profile and existing stream channels where
applicable.
         (i)   A ditch design and computations for all seeded, sodded, or bare
earth outlets, ditches and similar water conduction facilities.
      4.   Estimated Schedule And Phasing Of Development Of The Site:
   Phase I    Stripping and/or clearing
   Phase II    Rough grading and construction
   Phase III    Final grading and vegetative establishment
   Phase IV    Maintenance
All site development plans submitted to the director of building and zoning for
approval shall show all the erosion and sediment control measures needed to
provide protection throughout all the phases of the construction listed above.
These plans shall also include any off site borrow and spoil areas, sewer
lines, utility lines, and haul and access road, and further indicate:
         (a)   The start of clearing date.
         (b)   Duration of exposure of disturbed areas.
         (c)   Installation of temporary sediment control measures (vegetative
and structural) by phase and date.
         (d)   Installation of storm drainage by phase and date.
         (e)   Paving on streets and parking areas, if any, by phase and date.
         (f)   Establishment of permanent vegetative cover (plans will show
what will be done to shorten the duration of exposure of disturbed areas as
soon after grading as possible), including seeding mixes and rates, type of
sod, seedbed preparation, seeding dates, lime and fertilizer application,
temporary seedings, if needed, mulching, or similar stabilization procedures.
         (g)   Details of all structural sediment control measures.
         (h)   Computations for sediment basins, if any.
      5.   Standards Incorporated: The standards and requirements of "Standards
And Specifications For Soil Sediment Control In Northeastern Illinois", as
adopted by the Kankakee County soil and water conservation district and the
Illinois environmental protection agency's "Standards And Specifications For
Soil Erosion And Sediment Control", adopted October 1987, are hereby
incorporated into this chapter and made a part hereof by this reference, for
purposes of exemplifying the considerations and factors which should enter into
the preparation of a site development plan. All mandatory requirements of the
above listed standards shall be met. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-7: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued for an intended building unless the proposed
drainage, earthwork and other improvements are in conformance with the site
development plan approved previously or as a part of the application for
building permit. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-8: APPEALS:
The applicant, as well as any person aggrieved, may appeal the decision of the
building inspector. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of an appeal, the
plan commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing. The plan commission
shall render a decision within fifteen (15) days of the hearing. Factors to be
considered on review shall include, but not be limited to, possible saturation
of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic, runoff
surface waters that produce erosion, and silting of drainageways; nature and
type of soil or rock that when disturbed by the proposed grading may create
earth movement and produce slopes that cannot be landscaped, and excessive and
unnecessary scarring of the natural landscape through grading or removal of
vegetation. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-9: RESPONSIBILITY:
Failure of the village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend denial of the site development permit, or of the
plan commission to deny said permit, shall not relieve the permittee from
responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom, and shall not
result in the village, its officers or agents being responsible for any
condition or damage resulting therefrom. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-10: RETENTION OF PLANS:
Plans, specifications and reports for all site developments shall be retained
in original form or on microfilm by the building inspector. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-
2-2016)
4-3-11: INSPECTIONS:
The director of building and zoning shall make inspections as hereinafter
required and shall either approve that portion of the work completed or shall
notify the permittee wherein the same fails to comply with the site development
plan. Where it is found by inspection that conditions are not substantially as
stated or shown in the said plan, the director of building and zoning may stop
further work until approval is obtained for a revised grading plan conforming
to the existing conditions. Plans for grading work, bearing the stamp of
approval of the director of building and zoning, shall be maintained at the
site during progress of the grading. Until the final inspection is made, a sign
issued by the village, indicating permission to grade has been granted by the
village, shall be prominently displayed on the front property line of the
property involved so as to be visible from the street on which the property
fronts. In order to obtain inspections in accordance with the following
schedule, the permittee shall notify the director of building and zoning at
least two (2) full working days before the said inspection is to be made.
   (A)   Rough Grading: When all rough grading has been completed; and
   (B)   Final Inspection: When all work, including installation, or all
drainage and other structures and required planting, has been completed. (Ord.
O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-12: RECORD DRAWINGS:
Upon completion of the improvements, the engineer shall provide a set of as
built plans to the building inspector along with a certification that the
completed improvements generally conform to the previously approved plans,
specifications and reports included in this chapter. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-13: NEIGHBORHOOD DRAINAGE PLANNING/SUBDIVISION PLATS:
Before approval of the final plat, the developer shall submit to the village
plan commission for their approval, a neighborhood drainage plan, showing, but
not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Existing elevations prior to any improvement at all proposed lot
corners.
   (B)   Proposed elevations at all proposed lot corners indicating an adequate
front, rear and side yard surface drainage scheme, following improvements.
   (C)   Proposed first floor elevation of all structures.
   (D)   Proposed storm sewers with their sizes, slopes, number and type of
inlets, etc.
   (E)   Stormwater storage facilities accompanied by design calculations and
design details for all of the above. Before occupancy permit can be granted,
all first floor elevations and lot surface elevations shall coincide with
approved proposed elevations previously submitted above. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-
2016)
4-3-14: OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Applicability: All earthmoving and grading operations not specifically
exempted by the provisions of this chapter shall comply with the applicable
standards and requirements set forth in this section, in addition to the other
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Handbooks Adopted By Reference: The standards and specifications of
"Erosion And Sediment Control Handbook, Kankakee County, Illinois", latest
edition, as compiled by the Kankakee County soil and water conservation
district and approved by the Kankakee County regional planning commission and
the Illinois environmental protection agency's "Standards And Specifications
For Soil Erosion And Sediment Control", adopted October 1987, are hereby
incorporated into this section and made a part hereof by this reference, for
the purpose of delineating procedures and methods of operation under
development plans approved in this chapter. In the event of conflict between
provisions of the said handbooks and other provisions of this chapter, the more
stringent requirements shall govern.
   (C)   Special Precautions:
      1.   If at any stage of the grading the director of building and zoning
determines by inspection that the nature of the formation is such that further
work as authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any property,
public way, watercourse or drainage structure, the building inspector may
require, as a condition to allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable
safety precautions be taken as he considers advisable to avoid the likelihood
of such peril. Special precautions may include, but shall not be limited to,
specifying a more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage
facilities, berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant
materials for erosion control, and reports of a registered engineer whose
recommendations may be made requirements for further work.
      2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading is
not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee required to install
temporary planting to control erosion, install temporary structures or take
such other measures as may be required to protect adjoining property or the
public safety. On large operations or where unusual site conditions prevail,
the building inspector may specify the time of starting grading and time of
completion or may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages
so as to ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the
advent of seasonal rains.
   (D)   Expiration Of Permit: Every site development permit shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit has
not been commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days, or is not completed
within two hundred forty (240) days from date of issue; except that the
building inspector may, if the permit holder presents satisfactory evidence
that unusual difficulties have prevented work being started or completed within
the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written
application is made before the expiration date of the said permit. (Ord. O-4-
16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-15: FEES AND BONDS:
   (A)   Fees: Filing and permit fees shall be set forth in the applicable
sections of this code and amendments thereto.
   (B)   Bonds: Upon approval of a site development plan or building permit
within the purview of this chapter, the developer shall post a performance bond
payable to the village, cashier's check, negotiable securities or establish an
escrow account in the amount of the estimated total cost of the site
development hereunder, as approved by the village, to ensure timely
satisfactory site development. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-16: APPEALS AND VARIATIONS:
   (A)   Review And Appeal: The building inspector is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all the provisions of this chapter. Upon review of property
subject to this chapter, such officer may require, by written thirty (30) day
notice, that such property be brought into compliance with this chapter. Any
person aggrieved by such determination may appeal such to the plan commission
of the village under the rules of that commission.
   (B)   Variations: The plan commission may authorize variations to any of the
requirements and regulations set forth in this chapter.
      1.   Application For Variance: Application for any variation shall be
made by a verified petition of applicant stating fully the grounds of the
application and of the facts relied upon by the petitioner. For the variation
to be granted, it shall be necessary that the plan commission find all of the
following facts with respect thereto:
         (a)   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations or record that it
is impossible or impractical for the subdivider to comply with all of the
regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   That the variation is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the petitioner.
         (c)   That the granting of the variation will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the
subject property.
      2.   Plan Commission: After public hearing thereon, the plan commission,
by resolution, may approve the site development permit application with the
variation and conditions it deems necessary or it may disapprove such site
development permit application and variation application, or it may take such
other action as is appropriate. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-17: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Authority: In the event any person holding a site development permit
pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the permit, or conducts or
carries on said site development in such a manner as to materially adversely
affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the property of the said permittee, or conducts or carries on
said site development so that it is materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the
building inspector shall revoke or suspend the site development permit.
   (B)   Procedure For Revoking Site Development Permit: No site development
permit shall be permanently revoked or suspended until a hearing is held by the
plan commission. Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon the
permittee, either personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for complaint or reasons for the revocation or
suspension, in clear and concise language.
      2.   The time when, and the place where, such hearing is to be held. Such
notice shall be served by mailing by certified mail or personal service on the
permittee at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. At any
such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to be heard, and he
may call witnesses and present evidence on his behalf. Upon conclusion of such
hearing, the plan commission shall determine whether or not the permit shall be
suspended or revoked.
      3.   The plan commission shall hold the hearing to consider
recommendations for revocation or suspension of permits which have been
temporarily suspended at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the plan
commission at which all conditions of subsection (B)2 of this section can be
fulfilled. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
4-3-18: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Standards And Specifications: All nonexempt developments, as set forth
in this chapter, shall comply with the standards and specifications set forth
by provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to initiate
such site development activities without a site development permit or building
permit or to carry on such site development activities other than as provided
in an approved site development plan. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
property improved, graded, or developed pursuant to this chapter to alter or
change such site in contravention of the site development plan or allow the
site to remain in a condition which does not conform to the site development
plan.
   (B)   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be liable to a fine or penalty
up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day of violation shall be
deemed a separate offense. This penalty provision shall be in addition to all
other rights and remedies which the village may have, at law or equity, for an
injunction or other remedy and the village may pursue all remedies available to
it in a court or courts of law concurrently with proceeding to impose the
penalties contained therein. (Ord. O-4-16-8, 5-2-2016)
CHAPTER 4
VACANT LOTS AND BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Declaration Of Vacant Buildings
4-4-3: Obligation To Register Vacant Building And Vacant Lot
4-4-4: Vacant Building/Lot Registration Application
4-4-5: Fee
4-4-6: Changes In Registration Information
4-4-7: Responsibilities Of The Owner
4-4-8: Promulgation Of Rules And Regulations
4-4-9: Enforcement And Penalties
4-4-10: Discharge Of Obligation To Register Vacant Building Or Vacant Lot
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUILDING: Any business or commercial structure or any single-family or multi-
family residential structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering
any occupancy.
BUILDING OFFICER: The Village's building officer or inspector, or his designee.
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Substantially all lawful residential or business activity has ceased.
   (B)   The percentage of the overall square footage of occupied to unoccupied
space or the overall number of occupied and unoccupied units.
   (C)   The building is substantially devoid of contents.
   (D)   The condition and value of fixtures or personal property in the
building.
   (E)   Lack of utility services (water, sewer, electric or natural gas).
   (F)   The building is the subject of a foreclosure action.
   (G)   The presence or recurrence of uncorrected Code violations.
   (H)   Overgrown and/or dead vegetation.
   (I)   Accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail.
   (J)   Abandonment by owner.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
State, County, or Village as holding title to the property; or otherwise having
control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any such
person, the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if ordered
to take possession of real property by a court; or any person maintaining,
operating, or collecting rent.
PERSON: Any corporation, partnership, or other entity as well as any
individual.
UNOCCUPIED: Any business or commercial structure or any single- family or
multi-family residential structure which is vacant, lacks the habitual presence
of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises, and is not
maintained pursuant to the minimum standards as set forth in the Property
Maintenance Code.
VACANT BUILDING: Any business or commercial structure or any single-family or
multi-family residential structure which is:
   (A)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
   (B)   Unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means;
   (C)   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure;
   (D)   Unoccupied and condemned by the building officer pursuant to
applicable law;
   (E)   Unoccupied and has multiple Code violations;
   (F)   Unoccupied and the building or its premises has been the site of
unlawful activity within the previous six (6) months;
   (G)   Condemned by the building officer and unlawfully occupied;
   (H)   Unoccupied for more than ninety (90) days, during which time the
building officer has issued an order to correct public nuisance conditions and
said conditions have not been corrected in a Code- compliant manner;
   (I)   Unoccupied for more than six (6) consecutive months; and/or
   (J)   Abandoned by persons who surrender their claim, right, or interest in
the property.
Vacant building shall not include unoccupied buildings which are undergoing
construction, renovation, or rehabilitation and which are in compliance with
all applicable Village ordinances, codes, and regulations, and for which
construction, renovation or rehabilitation is proceeding diligently to
completion, or a building that has been used as a residence by a person
entitled to possession for a period of at least three (3) months within a
previous nine (9) month period and a person entitled to possession intends to
resume residing at the property.
Vacant building shall encompass an entire strip- store, shopping plaza,
shopping center, mini-mall, or industrial condo, even though some parts of the
same may contain multiple divisible units that may be occupied or unoccupied,
or vacant or partially vacant, so long as the building is under one (1) roof,
owned by the same person, and otherwise meets the definition of a vacant
building or has been declared to be a vacant building.
VACANT LOT: Any lot on which there are no permanent buildings or on which there
is a permanent building in the process of construction but which has had no
building activity or construction for at least one (1) consecutive month prior.
Vacant lot shall not include lots for which construction on the lot is
proceeding diligently to completion or a lot on which a majority of the lot is
utilized for agricultural purposes. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-2: DECLARATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Evaluation: The building officer may evaluate buildings in the Village
which do not meet the definition of a vacant building and, based on evidence of
vacancy factors, make a declaration that the building is a vacant building. Any
such declaration shall be made in writing and shall state the factual basis.
   (B)   Notice: Within seven (7) days of making a declaration, the building
officer shall send a notice of declaration, including the factual basis
therefor, to the owner. The notice of declaration shall be served by certified
mail, return receipt requested, by personal or substitute service, or posted in
a conspicuous location on the building if the owner is unknown. The notice
shall contain a statement of the obligations of the owner of a building
determined to be a vacant building, a copy of the vacant building/lot
registration application, and a notice of the owner's right to appeal the
building officer's declaration.
   (C)   Appeal Of Declaration: An owner of a building declared by the building
officer to be a vacant building as provided for in this section may appeal such
declaration. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
Village Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the date of service of the notice
of declaration. The filing of an appeal shall stay the owner's obligation to
register the building pursuant to this chapter. The appeal shall contain a
statement setting out all of the reasons the owner disputes the declaration,
setting forth specific facts in support thereof, and including all evidence the
owner relies upon in support of their appeal. The appeal shall be resolved
based solely upon: 1) the evidence submitted by the owner in filing his appeal,
2) the building officer's written declaration, and 3) any evidence presented at
a hearing if the owner affirmatively demands such a hearing. If the owner does
request a hearing, the Village Clerk shall set a hearing date and notify the
owner.
   (D)   Grounds For Appeal: Any appeal from the building officer's declaration
shall be strictly limited to the issue of whether the building should be deemed
to be a vacant building.
   (E)   Decision: The Village Clerk shall send written notice of the Village's
decision to the owner within fifteen (15) days after such a decision has been
made. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-3: OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT BUILDING AND VACANT LOT:
   (A)   Any owner of a vacant building or vacant lot shall, within thirty (30)
days after the building becomes vacant or is declared vacant, or within thirty
(30) days after the effective date of this chapter, whichever is later,
complete a vacant building/lot registration application and register such
vacant building or vacant lot with the building officer.
   (B)   Registration of a vacant building or lot pursuant to this chapter
shall not exonerate the owner of their duty to comply with all applicable codes
and ordinances, and shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations which prescribe
standards other than as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   If multiple individual units meet the definition of a vacant building
in a strip-store, shopping plaza, shopping center, mini- mall, or industrial
condo, but not all such units are owned by a single person, each individual
unit shall be considered a separate vacant building for registration purposes.
(Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-4: VACANT BUILDING/LOT REGISTRATION APPLICATION:
   (A)   Each vacant building/lot registration application shall be made in
writing to the building officer on a form provided for that purpose, and shall
contain:
      1.   The property identification number (PIN), common address, and lot
number for the property, as well as a physical description of the vacant
building, including but not limited to construction materials and color;
      2.   The name, street address, and telephone number of the owner, or else
of another person twenty one (21) years of age or older who has been designated
by the owner as the owner's authorized agent for receiving notices of Code
violations and service of process in any court proceedings or administrative
enforcement proceedings which may arise in connection with the enforcement of
this chapter. By designating an authorized agent pursuant to this section, the
owner consents to receive any and all notices of Code violations concerning the
registered building or lot and all process in any court proceeding or
administrative enforcement proceeding brought to enforce this Code concerning
the registered building or lot by service of the notice or process on the
authorized agent;
      3.   An emergency contact name and telephone number;
      4.   The case name and number of any litigation pending that concerns or
affects the vacant building or lot, including bankruptcy or foreclosure cases;
      5.   The name, street address, and telephone number of all persons with
any legal interest in the vacant building or lot;
      6.   The type, location, and amount of any toxic, flammable or hazardous
materials stored or used in or on the vacant building or lot, if applicable;
      7.   Any other relevant information about the vacant building or lot that
may be necessary or useful for police, paramedics, the Fire Department, or
other emergency responders, if applicable.
   (B)   Any owner who fails to register a vacant building or lot under the
provisions of this chapter shall further be deemed to have consented to receive
any and all notices of Code violations and all process in any legal or
administrative proceedings which may be brought to enforce any Code provisions
concerning the building or lot by posting of the same at or on such vacant
building or lot. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-5: FEE:
   (A)   There shall be no fee to register a vacant building.
   (B)   There shall be no fee to register a vacant lot.
   (C)   An owner shall be required to annually re-register the vacant building
or vacant lot on the anniversary of the date of registration as long as the
building remains a vacant building or remains a vacant lot as defined in this
chapter. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-6: CHANGES IN REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
An owner of any building or lot registered pursuant to this chapter shall
notify the building officer within twenty one (21) days of any change in the
registration information by filing an amended registration statement on an
application provided by the building officer. A new registration is required
for any change in ownership whatsoever. The registration statement shall be
deemed prima facie proof of the statements therein contained in any
administrative enforcement proceeding or court proceeding instituted by the
Village against the owner of the building. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER:
   (A)   An owner of any vacant building shall, within thirty (30) days of the
building becoming vacant, enclose and secure the building and maintain the
building in a secure and closed condition until the building no longer meets
the definition of a vacant building. A building shall be deemed secured and
closed if the building is maintained pursuant to the minimum standards as set
forth in the Property Maintenance Code and as follows:
      1.   Building Openings: Doors, windows, areaways and other openings are
weathertight and secured against entry by birds, vermin and trespassers.
Missing or broken doors, windows and opening coverings are covered with at
least one-half inch (1/2") of plywood or structural wood panel, weather
protected, tightly fitted to the opening and secured by screws or bolts.
      2.   Roofs: The roof and flashings are sound, tight, will not admit
moisture, and have been drained as necessary to prevent dampness or
deterioration in the walls or interior.
      3.   Drainage: The building gutters and downspouts are watertight and
entire storm drainage system is adequately sized, installed in an approved
manner, functional and discharged in an approved manner.
      4.   Building Structure: The building is maintained in good repair,
structurally sound, free from debris, rubbish and garbage, and sanitary, and
interior floors, walking surfaces and stairs are structurally sound, and
interior walls and ceilings are free of loose or hanging plaster and finishes,
so as not to pose a threat to the public health or safety.
      5.   Structural Members: The structural members are free of deterioration
and capable of safely bearing imposed dead and live loads.
      6.   Foundation Walls: The foundation walls are plumb, free from open
cracks and breaks, and ratproof.
      7.   Exterior Walls: The exterior walls are free of holes, breaks, and
loose or rotting materials. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      8.   Decorative Features: The cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features are safe, anchored,
and in good repair. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      9.   Structure Extensions: All balconies, porches, canopies, marquees,
signs, metal awnings, cornices, stairways, fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust
ducts and similar features are in good repair, anchored, safe and sound.
Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment.
      10.   Chimneys And Towers: Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, and
similar appurtenances are structurally safe. Exposed metal and wood surfaces
are protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic
application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar surface
treatment.
      11.   Sidewalk Openings: Yard-walks, steps, and openings in sidewalks are
safe for pedestrian travel.
      12.   Accessory And Appurtenant Structures: Accessory and appurtenant
structures such as garages, sheds, and fences are free from safety, health, and
fire hazards.
   (B)   An owner of any vacant building or lot shall also:
      1.   Keep the premises on which a building is located clean; safe and
sanitary; Village Code compliant with respect to weeds; and free of dead
vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, junk cars, furniture,
clothing, appliances and litter, including but not limited to the accumulation
of newspapers, circulars and flyers.
      2.   Keep the property maintained free of graffiti, tagging, or similar
markings.
      3.   Keep the yard landscaped and maintained.
      4.   Keep pools and spas in working order so the water is not stagnant
and remains clear and free of pollutants and debris, or drained and kept dry.
      5.   Disconnect water at the buffalo box.
      6.   Maintain an operable sump pump, if applicable.
      7.   Provide and maintain winterization of the building between November
1 and March 31. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-8: PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The building officer may issue rules and regulations for the administration of
this chapter. These rules may designate materials and methods which must be
used to secure a building. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Failure To Register Vacant Building/Lot: The Village shall send a
notice to the owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, by personal or
substitute service, or posted in a conspicuous location on the building if the
owner is unknown, informing him of his failure to complete a vacant building/
lot registration application or register the vacant building or vacant lot. The
owner shall have fourteen (14) days in which to complete a vacant building/lot
registration application or register the vacant building or vacant lot as set
forth in the notice. If the violation is not resolved within fourteen (14)
days, the owner shall be sentenced and fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, provided however that such sentence shall
not constitute the exclusive remedy of the Village and the Village will remain
entitled to pursue any and all legal or equitable relief.
   (B)   Other Violations: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects
or refuses to comply with any provision of this chapter other than the
registration requirement shall be sentenced as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, provided however that such sentence shall
not constitute the exclusive remedy of the Village and the Village will remain
entitled to pursue any and all legal or equitable relief, including but not
limited to: injunctive relief, application to a court of competent jurisdiction
for a receiver, demolition, or condemnation, contracting for the repair or
purchase of the premises, or foreclosure of any lien the Village may have
thereon.
   (C)   Authority Of Village: Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the
Village from condemning a vacant building as provided by applicable law or
taking other actions upon a determination that the building is a public
nuisance or poses an imminent danger to the occupants of the building, or the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
4-4-10: DISCHARGE OF OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT BUILDING OR VACANT LOT:
Before the removal of a vacant building or lot from the vacant building/lot
registry and/or the occupancy of a previously vacant building will be
permitted, the owner must fully resolve all condition(s) which initially
compelled registration of the vacant building or lot, must secure an inspection
to determine compliance with the minimum levels of habitability as set forth in
title 4, chapter 1 of this Code, and must fully pay all Village fees, fines,
and costs, as required. (Ord. O-3-17-8, 4-3-2017)
CHAPTER 5
FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Construction And Maintenance
4-5-3: Barbed, Razor, Concertina Or Similar Wire And Electrified Electrical
Fences
4-5-4: Height And Location
4-5-5: Permits
4-5-6: Public Nuisance; Penalties And Remedies
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
CORNER For buildings on comer lots, the side of residence that abuts a street but is
LOT\   not used for the residential address. On a comer lot, side yard shall be used
SIDE   to describe that side of the residence that does not abut a street.
YARD:
       Any structure, partition or enclosure, and it's hardware: rails, pickets,
       panels, braces, posts, brackets, hinges and such; of wood, iron, metal, or
       other material, enclosing or dividing a piece of land. Hedges, plantings,
       shrubbery, etc., when used as a screen, partition, enclosure, or indication
       of property division are for this regulation considered fences.
       (A)   Barbed, Razor, Concertina or Similar Wire Fence: Any wire or device
       designed to, and/or inflict physical, bodily harm to a living physical entity
       as in, but not limited to, piercing, cutting or abrading.
       (B)   Electrified Fence: Any wire or device designed to and/or transmit an
FENCE: electric charge, continuous or pulsed, stimulating a physical reaction or
       harm in a living physical entity when contact is made with such a device.
       (C)   Hidden Fence: Any device, physical or electronic designed to control
       entry or exit of a living physical entity that is not readily observed or
       detected by normal sensory perception. Typically, but not limited to motion,
       radio waves, infra red, sonic and optical.
       (D)   Shared Fence: Any part or section of fencing that is used by both
       neighboring parties. See section
       4-5-4(E) for individual party agreements and responsibilities. (Ord. O-11-17-
       1, 11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 0-4-23-1, 4-3-2023)
 
4-5-2: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   A fence shall be maintained and trimmed to the maximum height as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 0-11-17- 1,11-20-2017)
   (B)   Fences shall be erected so that all supporting members shall be
attached to and located within the lot line fenced. All wooden fences shall be
constructed in such a manner that the finished side faces to the exterior of
the lot fenced.
   (C)   All fences shall be constructed in conformity with wind, stress,
foundational, structural, and other requirements of the building codes and
ordinances of the Village of Grant Park.
   (D)   All fences shall be maintained in a good and structurally sound
manner, and be capable of supporting imposed loads. All fence surfaces shall be
maintained in a good, clean and sanitary condition.
   (E)   All fences that are painted, stained or have any type coatings shall
be of one color whether solid, transparent or translucent in a natural tone or
color. Advertising, murals, artwork and/or odd colors of such are not permitted
in residential areas or zones on the exterior faced side of any such fence.
   (F)   Business or Industrial area or zone must attain written Village Board
approval prior to applying any advertising or artwork to the fences. The
Village may require descriptive renderings prior to such approval. Temporary
advertising for help or postings to fill a employment position are allowed and
exempt from such requirements.
   (G)   Peeling, chipping, flaked or abraded paint shall not be permitted.
Rusted, corroded, decayed or rotted fences, or parts of fences, shall not be
permitted. All fences, or parts of fences, shall be maintained free of holes,
breaks, missing parts and otherwise securely fastened to any supporting member.
Such defects shall be repaired or replace immediately. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-
2017; amd. Ord. 0-4-23-1, 4-3-2023)
4-5-3: BARBED, RAZOR, CONCERTINA OR SIMILAR WIRE AND ELECTRIFIED FENCES:
   (A)   No barbed, razor, concertina or similar wire or electrified fences
shall be allowed on private property in residential areas or zones. No barbed,
razor, concertina or similar wire_or electrified fences shall be allowed on
private property in a front yard of any commercial or industrial areas or zones
or where the property lines of such property abut a residential area or zone.
   (B)   The use of barbed, razor, concertina or similar wire is prohibited in
industrial areas or zones except for the top one foot (T) of any fence along
the side or rear lot lines in these areas or zones. Barbed, razor, concertina
or similar wire shall not be used, installed or constructed on fences fronting
on any street.
   (C)   Use of hidden fences are permitted only within the owners property
limits and may not extend into other areas. Such fencing shall not interfere
with the normal operation of any other physical or electrical device. Fencing
that is found to interfere with such physical or electrical operations shall
immediately be removed or permanently disconnected. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-
2017; amd. Ord. 0-4-23-1, 4-3-2023)
4-5-4: HEIGHT AND LOCATION:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence and it's parts composed
in whole part or section in excess of the height as set forth below:
   (A)   Back And Side Yards: In all zones but industrial, the maximum height
of fences and it's parts, in back and side yards, shall be six feet (6'). In
industrial zones, the maximum height of fences and it's parts shall be ten feet
(10') including any barb, razor, concertina or similar wire, if used, as
identified in 4-5-3(B). The height of the fence shall be determined as the
distance between the natural ground level and the highest projection or the top
of the fence, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Front Yards: In front yards, the maximum height of fences and it's
parts shall be thirty six inches (36"). However, no fence and it's parts shall
exceed two feet (2') in height within thirty feet (30') of a street
intersection.
   (C)   Comer Lot Side Yards: For a determination of fence locations for a
comer lot, the street address will determine the front of the home. A fence may
continue into the side yard of the comer lot a maximum ten feet (10') from the
home with a maximum height of six feet (6'). Any fence or it's parts located
farther than ten feet (1 O') from the home into the side yard of the comer lot
may be installed at a four foot (4') maximum height provided it is at least
fifty percent (50%) open. No chainlink fences will be allowed in the side yard
of a comer lot. No fence may be located within five feet (5') of any sidewalk
or located closer than seventeen feet (17') from the edge of a curb line,
whichever is more restrictive.
   (D)   Lot Lines And Rights-Of-Way: Where allowed, fences and it's parts may
be constructed on lot lines with no part exceeding the lot line as long as the
fence does not interfere with or obstruct a public right-of-way or prevent
access to any public utility apparatus. All gates or such features shall swing
or open toward the owners property as not to interfere with any other property.
In the event that the owner desires to construct a fence upon a public utility
right-of-way, the owner shall assume all costs associated with the removal, and
the Village shall not be held liable for damages by permitting the fence to be
constructed on or over the right-of-way. The owner shall assume the
responsibility to notify all utility companies of the intent to erect a fence
upon a public utility right-of- way.
   (E)   Shared Fence or a shared portion of a fence by a lot line is
permitted. However, the shared fence may not exceed one of the properties lot
line of any one individual owner. Use as a shared fence must be with a written
contract of possession, use and repair responsibilities between property
owners. A copy of the contract must be filed with the Village Clerk. Such a
contract is not transferable to a new property owner and must be reinstated
with the new property owner if so desired. Any change or alteration of the
contract must be in writing with such changes added to the contract and again
filed with the Village Clerk. Failure to do so may result in a citation of
violation.
   (F)   Drainage Easements: Fences shall not be located in any drainage
easement, unless authorized by the Village Engineer and the Building Director.
(Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 0-4-23-1, 4-3-2023)
4-5-5: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a fence in the Village without
first obtaining a building permit from the Director of Building and Zoning.
Before a permit is issued, the owner must show positive proof of the lot line
by survey or location of lot line stakes. All fences that enclose swimming
pools shallbe governed by section
4-9-1 of this title. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 0-4-23-1, 4-3-2023)
4-5-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE; PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   (A)   Any fence found to be in violation of this chapter shall be declared a
public nuisance.
   (B)   If the Director of Building and Zoning and/or the Village Board, by
majority vote, determines that any fence for any reason constitutes a public
nuisance, the Village will notify the owner of the premises of such a
determination, by certified mail, and require the owner to remove, obtain a
permit or make any necessary repairs or improvements to the fence within
fifteen (15) days. Should the owner fail to abate the nuisance within fifteen
(15) days from the date of notice, the Director of Building and Zoning shall be
authorized to issue a citation for a violation of this chapter. Additionally,
the Director of Building and Zoning and/or the Village Clerk may file a
complaint in the Circuit Court of Kankakee County fora court order to abate the
nuisance.
   (C)   The property owner is responsible for adherence to all ordinances and
building codes. The ordinance and building codes override any permission or
approvals by any other individual or authority.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be fined court
costs and no less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) or more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 0-4-23-1, 4-3-2023)
CHAPTER 6
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Sidewalk Required
4-6-2: Sidewalk Construction Specifications
4-6-3: Tract Of Land Defined
4-6-4: Corner Lots
4-6-5: Maintenance Of Sidewalks
4-6-6: Exemptions
4-6-7: Enforcement
4-6-8: Penalty
4-6-1: SIDEWALK REQUIRED:
Prior to conveyance of any tract of land on which a structure or building is in
existence, or prior to the occupancy or use of any new building or structure,
the seller as to conveyance and owner as to occupancy or use shall install
sidewalks according to the specifications as set forth in this chapter on that
portion of their premises fronting a public street in the Village.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be installed before transfer of ownership.
Circumstances such as weather or future Village improvements plans may
necessitate escrow monies to be held by the Village and construction of
sidewalks to be completed at a later date, as determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer and under the direction of the Village.
   (B)   The amount of escrow monies to be held by the Village shall be
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer using a prevailing rate (verified
annually) for such sidewalk construction and based on actual footage of
property involved plus the cost of a building permit. A contract signed by
sellers, buyers, and the Village shall list all correct information regarding
the cost and placement of sidewalks. Once this contract is signed and the
escrow funds have been deposited with the Village, the requirements of this
subsection and subsections (A) and (C) of this section shall be considered
fulfilled. The Village shall assume responsibility for installation of said
sidewalk in a timely manner.
   (C)   All sidewalk construction shall require a permit as obtained through
the Grant Park Building Department. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-6-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
Sidewalks shall consist of concrete and shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in
width and four inches (4") in depth and shall be located parallel to the
property line; provided, however, if there is in existence a structure,
building, or tree, said sidewalks shall be installed in a manner which will
comply with the requirement of being as parallel to the property line as is
feasible; and said sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') outside the
property line, except in subdivisions where sidewalks have been constructed
otherwise, in which instance a sidewalk shall conform to such existing
sidewalks.
As used in this chapter, a "conveyance" is hereby defined as including
transfers of ownership by deed or by assignment of beneficial interest in a
land trust, or by entering into an installment contract for deed, whether said
agreement is recorded or unrecorded. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-6-3: TRACT OF LAND DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, "tract of land" is hereby defined to include any lot
or tract of land located within the Village limits, and adjoining lots or
parcels of land owned by the same person and fronting the same public street
shall be considered one tract of land for purposes of this chapter. (Ord. O-11-
17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-6-4: CORNER LOTS:
On corner lots in the Village, sidewalks shall be installed on both frontages
abutting the public streets. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-6-5: MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS:
The owner of any lot on which a sidewalk is installed shall maintain said
sidewalk in a manner which ensures the safe and beneficial use of said sidewalk
by the residents of the Village and the general public. No sidewalk shall be
removed by any person unless a replacement sidewalk is installed within thirty
(30) days of the date of such removal. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-6-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Unimproved lots or tracts of land not falling within the definition in
section
4-6-3 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any lot or tract of land, on which, in the opinion of the Village Code
Enforcement Officer, it is not structurally feasible for the placement of
sidewalks along the lot frontage of the public street due to the terrain or
placement of preexisting trees or other major improvements. (Ord. O-11-17-1,
11-20-2017)
4-6-7: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall rest with the local
building inspector. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-6-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine according to section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day that said violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 7
ANTIMONOTONY CODE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Purpose
4-7-2: Similarity In Appearance Prohibited In Residential Construction
4-7-3: Standards For Determining Similarity In Appearance
4-7-4: Administration And Enforcement; Appeals
4-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an aesthetically pleasing character of
the single-family residential districts in the Village in order to protect and
enhance property values. The construction of single-family residences which are
substantially similar in appearance to other nearby single-family residences
are prohibited in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-11-
17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-7-2: SIMILARITY IN APPEARANCE PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any new detached single-family
dwelling units in the R-1 or R-2 Zoning Districts (the "subject lot") which is
similar in front facade appearance to any dwelling unit meeting the following
requirements:
      1.   The subject lot shall be dissimilar to dwelling units within two (2)
lots on either side on the same side of the street;
      2.   The subject lot shall be dissimilar to dwelling units directly
across the street and within one lot thereof;
      3.   With respect to lots with frontage on the bulb of a cul-de- sac, the
subject lot shall be dissimilar to dwelling units within one lot on either side
of the subject lot or directly across the cul-de-sac from the subject lot.
      4.   With respect to front yards, in the event the lot adjacent on either
side of the subject lot, the lot directly across the street or the lot adjacent
on either side of that lot directly across the street from the subject lot has
a different yard type (i.e., side, rear) adjacent to the shared street, then
the restrictions shall not apply to those lots.
      5.   When calculating lots for purposes of dissimilarity, an intervening
street shall be counted as one lot;
      6.   When calculating lots for purposes of dissimilarity, lots shall not
be restricted if separated from the subject lot by a collector road.
   (B)   On corner lots, no building permit shall be issued for any new
detached single-family dwelling unit in the R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts which
are similar in side facades. On lots backing up to a public right-of-way or
secondary road, no building permit shall be issued for any new detached single-
family dwelling unit in the R-1 or R-2 Zoning District which are similar in
rear facades; except when there is an approved landscape berm or plan, approved
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   A dwelling on a corner lot may be considered dissimilar to another if
the front of the two (2) dwelling units face different streets.
   (D)   Dwelling units must comply with the dissimilarity provisions which are
applicable to the front facade, side facades, and rear facade. (Ord. O-11-17-1,
11-20-2017)
4-7-3: STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING SIMILARITY IN APPEARANCE:
         (A)   Distinguishing Characteristics, Front Facade: For the purpose of
this chapter, the term "similar in appearance" shall mean a dwelling unit which
is identical, or substantially similar, to another in any three (3) of the
following characteristics with respect to the front facade:
      1.   Roof type (gable, hip, mansard, gambrel, flat or combination).
Mixtures of roof types and design are sufficient to render dwelling units
dissimilar.
      2.   Roof height or pitch shall be significantly different.
      3.   Approximate dimensions (height and length) of the front wall closest
to the front lot line.
      4.   Shape of the front elevation silhouette.
      5.   Relative locations, types and sizes of windows in the front
elevation. The addition or subtractions of muntin bars, small gable or hip
projections above windows, and window dormers are not sufficient to make
adjacent structures dissimilar.
      6.   Relative location, design and dimensions of garage door, if included
on the front elevation.
      7.   Type and color of front facade materials (e.g., brick veneer, lapped
horizontal siding, half timber, board and batten, shakes, etc.). Changes in
materials must occur throughout the front facade or elevation for a minimum of
one story in height. Color change shall be made by significant changes in
shades of color.
   (B)   Distinguishing Characteristics, Side And Rear Facades On Corner Lots,
And Rear Facades Fronting A Public Right-Of-Way: For the purpose of this
subsection, the term "similar in appearance" shall mean a dwelling which is
identical, or substantially similar, to another type and color of side and rear
facade (e.g., brick veneer, lapped horizontal siding, half timber, board and
batten, shakes, etc.). Changes in materials must occur throughout the entire
facade or elevation for a minimum of one story in height. Color change shall be
made by significant changes in shades of color.
   (C)   Housing Styles: Housing style is in and of itself a significant enough
characteristic to constitute dissimilarity with respect to the subject lot and
the similarity standards delineated in subsections (A) and (B) of this section
do not apply. Housing styles shall consist of the following: ranch, bi- level,
tri-level, one and one-half story, and two-story.
   (D)   Model Homes: Elevation designs must be provided for each type of
dwelling. For model designs, a minimum of three (3) alternate elevations for
each design shall be provided to the Village and to prospective customers.
(Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-7-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS:
   (A)   Rules: The Village Administrator, or his/her designee, is authorized
to make rules regarding the interpretation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Determination: The Code Enforcement Officer shall make the initial
determination as to similarity in appearance and shall not issue a building
permit for any dwelling unit which violates the provisions of this chapter. If
a permit is denied, written reasons shall be provided detailing why the
proposed dwelling unit is similar in appearance to another dwelling unit.
   (C)   Appeal: A decision by the Code Enforcement Officer denying a permit
may be appealed in writing to the Building and Planning Committee of the
Village Board, or such other committee as authorized thereby.
   (D)   Variations: The Board of Trustees reserves the right to waive the
provisions of this chapter by motion approved at a Board meeting.
   (E)   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter apply only to the
issuance of building permits for a newly constructed dwelling unit and not to
remodeling or reconstruction. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 8
PLAN REVIEW FEES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Fees And Costs For Plan And Application Review
4-8-2: Fees For Outside Consultants; Notice
4-8-3: Fees For Staff Review
4-8-4: Final Action; Payment Of Fees
4-8-1: FEES AND COSTS FOR PLAN AND APPLICATION REVIEW:
In addition to any other fees provided for in this Code, the Village
Administrator, Department Heads, the Planning Commission and the Chairmen of
committees of the Village Board, along with other Municipal officials who may
be authorized from time to time to do so, with prior written notice to the
Administrator, may retain outside consultants with established expertise in
disciplines necessary to evaluate applications for annexation, zoning,
subdivision and construction to assist the officials of the Village, its
committees and the Corporate Authorities in processing applications for
Municipal action or permission. For purposes of this chapter, the terms
"necessary or desirable" do not mean only such measures as are absolutely and
indispensably necessary, but include all appropriate means which are conducive
or adaptable to the end to be accomplished and which, in the judgment of the
authorized official, will most advantageously permit the Municipality to act
upon the application or request. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-8-2: FEES FOR OUTSIDE CONSULTANTS; NOTICE:
The Village shall disclose to the applicant or requesting party that it is
utilizing such consulting services, and that party must pay within thirty (30)
days after the submission of an invoice from the consultant for the services
provided. The services provided shall be reasonable and customary, and the
invoices shall be itemized and shall be within a range generally chargeable by
the consultants in performing similar services. It shall not be a defense to
the payment of such invoices that the applicant could obtain such consultant
services at a lower cost, so long as the fees charged by the Village's
consultants are within the range typically charged for similar services by
outside consultants to municipalities within the Chicago metropolitan area. The
intention of the Corporate Authorities is to utilize experienced and competent
consultants to fairly assess the material they are asked to review with
adequate time to provide excellent reports to Village officials, who will then
be able to reach fair decisions without prejudice or uncertainty. (Ord. O-11-
17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-8-3: FEES FOR STAFF REVIEW:
In addition to establishing a system for the invoicing of consultants' fees,
the Village may charge the reasonable cost for its own employees to process,
analyze and report upon the application or request. The Village Administrator
may, from time to time, establish, subject to approval of the Village Board,
standardized fees for application, analysis or review processes. Where no
standard fee has been established, the provisions of section
4-8-1 of this chapter shall apply. Notice of standard fees shall be provided to
any applicant as part of the application information. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-
2017)
4-8-4: FINAL ACTION; PAYMENT OF FEES:
Final action on any application may be delayed until any amount due and payable
has been paid. The Village may require the posting of an irrevocable letter of
credit to guarantee that payments will be promptly made. The Municipality may
require a certified check or the posting of an irrevocable letter of credit to
guarantee fees and consultant costs already incurred, but not paid, at the time
the application or permit is acted upon. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 9
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Requirements
4-9-2: Penalties
4-9-1: REQUIREMENTS:
All swimming pools having a capable depth of two feet (2') or more shall
conform to the requirements and standards under the International Building Code
as adopted by the Village. Included in those requirements are the following:
   (A)   A swimming pool or appurtenances thereto shall not be constructed,
installed, enlarged or altered until construction documents have been submitted
and a permit has been obtained from the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   At least one means of egress shall be provided from private pools.
   (C)   Outdoor private swimming pools shall be provided with a barrier which
shall comply with the following:
      1.   The top of the barrier shall be at least forty eight inches (48")
above finished ground level. Where the tip of the pool structure is above
finished ground level, such as an aboveground pool, the barrier shall be at
finished ground level, such as the pool structure, or shall be mounted on top
of the pool structure. Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a
four inch (4") diameter sphere.
      2.   Gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices
designed to keep, and capable of keeping, such gate securely closed at all
times when not in actual use. Deck and stair gates should be installed at the
bottom of the stairs and should swing out away from the pool. However, if
design restrictions prevent the installation of the gate as described above,
and the gate must be installed at the top of the stairs, that gate should swing
in order to prevent potential stair accidents.
      3.   Where an aboveground pool structure is used as the barrier or where
the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure and the means of access is
a ladder or steps, the ladder or steps shall be capable of being secured,
locked or removed to prevent access, or the ladder or steps shall be surrounded
by a barrier that meets International Residential Code requirements.
   (D)   All outdoor swimming pools are considered accessory uses and shall
meet minimum yard requirements, however, no portion of any private swimming
pool or appurtenant equipment (including pumps, filters, and heaters) shall be
located at a distance less than five feet (5') from any side or rear property
line and may not be placed in any front yard. Corner lots will be considered as
having two (2) front yards.
   (E)   All electrical devices used in conjunction with or connected to all
pools must be grounded and protected by approved ground fault interrupt
circuits.
   (F)   An approved pool cover shall be installed during those periods when
use of the pool is discontinued. Unused pools on residential premises not
occupied or dwelt in for a period of thirty (30) days or more shall be
completely drained or equipped with an approved pool cover. Abandoned pools, as
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer, shall be removed or filled to the
grade of adjacent land. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-9-2: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 10
CARBON MONOXIDE ALARM DETECTORS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Carbon Monoxide Detector
4-10-3: Prohibitions
4-10-4: Exemptions
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them for purposes of
this chapter:
APPROVED CARBON MONOXIDE ALARM: A carbon monoxide alarm that complies with all
the requirements of the rules and regulations of the Illinois State Fire
Marshal, bears the label of a nationally recognized testing laboratory, and
complies with the most recent standards of the Underwriters Laboratories or the
Canadian Standard Association.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or suite of rooms used for human habitation, and includes
a single-family residence as well as each living unit of a multi-family
residence and each living unit in a mixed use building. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-
2017)
4-10-2: CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTOR:
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one approved
carbon monoxide alarm in an operating condition within fifteen feet (15') of
every room used for sleeping purposes. The carbon monoxide alarm may be
combined with smoke detecting devices provided that the combined unit is an
approved carbon monoxide alarm and provided that the combined unit emits a
warning in a manner that clearly differentiates the hazard.
   (B)   Every structure that contains more than one dwelling unit shall
contain at least one approved carbon monoxide alarm in operating condition
within fifteen feet (15') of every room used for sleeping purposes.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the owner of a structure to supply and
install all required carbon monoxide alarms. It is the responsibility of a
tenant to test and to provide general maintenance for the carbon monoxide
alarms within the tenant's dwelling unit or rooming unit, and to notify the
owner or the authorized agent of the owner in writing of any deficiencies that
the tenant cannot correct. The owner is responsible for providing one tenant
per dwelling unit with written information regarding carbon monoxide alarm
testing and maintenance.
   (D)   The tenant is responsible for replacement of any required batteries in
the carbon monoxide alarms in the tenant's dwelling unit, except that the owner
shall ensure that the batteries are in operating condition at the time the
tenant takes possession of the dwelling unit. The tenant shall provide the
owner or the authorized agent of the owner with access to the dwelling unit to
correct any deficiencies in the carbon monoxide alarm that have been reported
in writing to the owner or the authorized agent of the owner.
   (E)   The carbon monoxide alarms required under this chapter may be either
battery powered, plug in with battery backup, or wired into the structure's AC
power line with secondary battery backup. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-10-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to install or maintain a
carbon monoxide alarm as required by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, remove, destroy or
disconnect any installed carbon monoxide alarm.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove batteries from an
installed carbon monoxide alarm except for the purpose of contemporaneously
replacing such batteries. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-10-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following residential units shall not require carbon monoxide detectors:
   (A)   A residential unit in a building that: 1) does not rely on combustion
of fossil fuel for heat, ventilation, or hot water; 2) is not connected in any
way to a garage; and 3) is not sufficiently close to any ventilated source of
carbon monoxide, as determined by the Building Commissioner, to receive carbon
monoxide from that source.
   (B)   A residential unit that is not sufficiently close to any source of
carbon monoxide so as to be at risk of receiving carbon monoxide from that
source, as determined by the Building Commissioner. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-
2017)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF BUILDING CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Code Hearing Unit Established
4-11-2: Hearing Officer; Appointment
4-11-3: Hearing Officer; Duties And Powers
4-11-4: Institution Of Administrative Proceedings
4-11-5: Representation
4-11-6: Default
4-11-7: Adjudication By Mail
4-11-8: Continuances
4-11-9: Rules And Regulations
4-11-10: Subpoenas
4-11-11: Defenses
4-11-12: Findings, Decision, And Order
4-11-13: Review Under Administrative Review Law
4-11-14: Judgment On Findings, Decision, And Order
4-11-15: Sanctions Applicable To Owner And Property
4-11-1: CODE HEARING UNIT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a Code Hearing Unit which shall be known as the
"Village of Grant Park Building Code Hearing Unit". The Village of Grant Park
Building Code Hearing Unit is established to provide a fair and efficient
method of enforcing any Municipal law, Housing or Building Code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction or other health and safety standards of
the Village of Grant Park or any ordinance that requires, after notice, the
cutting of weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of inoperable
motor vehicles, or the abatement of nuisances from private property
(collectively "Building Code"). The Village of Grant Park reserves the right to
employ all other means and methods available under the law to enforce its
Building Code, including direct application to the courts. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-
20-2017)
4-11-2: HEARING OFFICER; APPOINTMENT:
The Hearing Officer appointed to preside over the administrative adjudication
of ordinance violations pursuant to title 1, chapter 15, "Administrative
Adjudication", of this Code for the Village of Grant Park shall be the Hearing
Officer and shall preside over the adjudication of Building Code violations
under this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-3: HEARING OFFICER; DUTIES AND POWERS:
A Hearing Officer shall have the following duties and powers under this
chapter:
   (A)   All duties set forth by State Statute including:
      1.   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a Building Code violation exists;
      2.   Hear testimony and accept evidence from all interested parties
relevant to the existence of a Building Code violation;
      3.   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing
and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issue and sign a written finding, decision, and order stating
whether a Building Code violation exists; and
      5.   Imposing penalties consistent with applicable Code provisions.
   (B)   Hold preliminary conferences for the settlement or simplification of
issues.
   (C)   Administer oaths and affirmations.
   (D)   Rule upon motions, objections, and the admissibility of evidence.
   (E)   Issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses or the production of
documents or other tangible items.
   (F)   Exercise all powers and duties necessary and proper to the
administration of fair and impartial hearing under this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-
1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-4: INSTITUTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS:
The following shall govern the commencement of administrative adjudication
proceedings under this chapter:
   (A)   When the Director of Building and Zoning or other individual
authorized to issue a Building Code violation finds a Building Code violation
to exist, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation
notice and report form that indicates: 1) the name and address of the owner of
the property; 2) the type and nature of the violation; 3) the date and time the
violation was observed; 4) the names of witnesses to the violation; and 5) the
address of the property where the violation is observed.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Village of Grant
Park Building Code Hearing Unit where a docket number shall be stamped on all
copies of the report and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces
provided for that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than
thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days after the violation is reported.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report shall be maintained in the files of
the Village of Grant Park Building Code Hearing Unit and shall become a part of
the record. One copy of the report shall be returned to the individual
representing the Municipality so that he/she may prepare evidence of the Code
violation for presentation at the hearing. Finally, one copy of the report form
shall be served by first class mail to the owner of the structure, along with a
summons commanding the owner to appear at the hearing. If the name of the owner
of the structure cannot be ascertained or if service on the owner cannot be
made by mail, service may be made on the owner by posting or nailing a copy of
the violation report form on the front door of the structure where the
violation is found, not less than twenty (20) days before the hearing is
scheduled. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-5: REPRESENTATION:
The Village's case may be presented by an attorney or by any other Municipal
employee that is not an employee of the Village of Grant Park Building Code
Hearing Unit. The case for the owner may be presented by the owner, his/her
attorney, or any other agent or representative of the owner. (Ord. O-11-17-1,
11-20-2017)
4-11-6: DEFAULT:
In the event an owner or his/her attorney fails to appear at a hearing, the
Hearing Officer shall find the owner in default and proceed with the hearing
and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a Building Code violation.
(Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-7: ADJUDICATION BY MAIL:
An owner may elect to contest a violation without personally appearing at the
hearing. To do so, the owner must send a letter to the Village of Grant Park
Building Code Hearing Unit identifying his/her case, the date of the hearing,
his/her desire to proceed in absentia, and a short argument as to why a finding
of nonliability for the Building Code violation is appropriate. To be
considered, the letter must be received by the Village of Grant Park Building
Code Hearing Unit no later than five (5) days before the hearing date. A
notarized affidavit shall be submitted with the letter setting forth the facts
that support the owner's defense. The owner may also include any other evidence
which he/she believes supports a finding of nonliability. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-
20-2017)
4-11-8: CONTINUANCES:
No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer unless it is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by the
Hearing Officer shall not exceed twenty five (25) days. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-
2017)
4-11-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Parties shall be provided with an opportunity to present witnesses, evidence
and to cross examine other witnesses. The formal and technical rules of
evidence shall not apply at the hearings authorized by this chapter. Provided,
however, evidence, including hearsay, shall only be admitted if it is of the
type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent person in the conduct of their
affairs. Any other rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of
administrative hearings shall be developed by the Hearing Officer and shall be
published and kept on file in the Office of the Village Clerk where they shall
be available to the public for inspection and copying during normal business
hours. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-10: SUBPOENAS:
The Hearing Officer may, at the request of either party, issue a subpoena
compelling the appearance of a witness to testify or for the production of
documents or other tangible items. Requests shall be made in writing to the
Village of Grant Park Building Code Hearing Unit. No subpoena issued pursuant
to this chapter shall be valid unless signed by the Hearing Officer. No
subpoena shall be issued by a Hearing Officer unless it is relevant to the
contested issues in the case. All subpoenas issued shall identify: a) the
person or entity to which it is directed; b) the documents or other items to be
produced; c) the person that is to appear; d) the date and time for the
witness' appearance or by which the production is to be made; and e) the
location at which the witness is to appear or at which the production is to be
made. No subpoenas issued under this chapter shall require the appearance of a
witness, or the production of documents or other tangible items, sooner than
seven (7) days after service of the subpoena. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-11: DEFENSES:
It shall be a defense to a Building Code violation charged under this chapter
if the owner, his attorney, or other agent or representative proves to the
Hearing Officer's satisfaction that:
   (A)   The Building Code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact
exist, or at the time of the hearing the Building Code violation has been
remedied or removed;
   (B)   The Building Code violation has been caused by the current property
occupants and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the
dwelling free of such Building Code violations, the current occupants continue
to cause the Building Code violations; or
   (C)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the
Building Code violation. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-12: FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER:
At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a
determination based on the evidence presented at the hearing as to whether or
not a Building Code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and
shall be designated as findings, decision, and order. The findings, decision,
and order shall include: a) the Hearing Officer's findings of fact; b) a
decision of whether or not a Building Code violation exists based upon the
findings of fact; c) an order that requires the owner to correct the violation
or dismisses the case if a violation is not proved; and d) a monetary sanction.
A monetary sanction for a violation under this chapter shall not exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A copy of the findings, decision, and order
shall be served on the owner within five (5) days after it is issued. Service
shall be in the same manner that the report form and summons are served under
section
4-11-4 of this chapter. Monies received by the Village as payment for any
monetary sanction may be used for general corporate purposes. (Ord. O-11-17-1,
11-20-2017)
4-11-13: REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW:
The findings, decision, and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of Kankakee County. The provisions of the
Administrative Review Law, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply
to and govern every action for the judicial review of the findings, decision
and order of a Hearing Officer under this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-14: JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER:
The owner shall pay the penalty assessed no later than five (5) business days
after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures.
All penalties assessed shall be a debt due and owing the Village and may be
collected in accordance with the law. Penalties not paid in a timely manner
shall accrue interest in the amount of five percent (5%) per annum. After
expiration of the period within which judicial review under the Administrative
Review Law may be sought for a final determination of the Building Code
violation, the Village may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of
Kankakee County for the purposes of obtaining a judgment on the findings,
decision, and order. (Ord. O-11-17-1, 11-20-2017)
4-11-15: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER AND PROPERTY:
The order to correct a Building Code violation and the sanctions imposed by the
Village as a result of a finding of a Building Code violation under this
chapter shall attach to the property as well as to the owner of the property,
so that a finding of a Building Code violation against one owner cannot be
avoided by conveying or transferring the property to another owner. Any
subsequent transferee or owner of property takes title subject to the findings,
decision and order of the Hearing Officer under this chapter. (Ord. O-11-17-1,
11-20-2017)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
General Offenses   1
Dogs And Cats   2
Parades   3
Noxious Plants; Weeds   4
Curfew   5
Abandoned Vehicles   6
Illegal Use Of Vehicles   7
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Fortune Telling
5-1-2: Hindering Village Employees
5-1-3: Killing Birds
5-1-4: Littering
5-1-5: Consumption On Premises
5-1-6: Drunkenness
5-1-7: Weapons Restricted Within Village
5-1-8: Dangerous Weapons Prohibited
5-1-9: Disturbance Of The Peace
5-1-10: Regulations For Skates, Skateboards And Bicycles
5-1-11: Assault, Battery And Affray
5-1-12: Disorderly Conduct; Breach Of Peace
5-1-13: Disorderly Conduct By Telephone
5-1-14: Mob Action
5-1-15: Trespassing
5-1-16: Malicious Mischief Or Destruction
5-1-17: Prostitution Defined
5-1-18: Keeping A Place Of Prostitution
5-1-19: Patronizing A Prostitute
5-1-20: Soliciting For A Prostitute
5-1-21: Pandering
5-1-22: Pimping
5-1-23: Public Indecency; Acts Or Language Prohibited
5-1-24: Obscenity Defined; Prohibited
5-1-25: Obscene Marking In Public View Prohibited
5-1-26: Obscenity; Affirmative Defense
5-1-27: Window Peeping Prohibited
5-1-28: Gambling Prohibited
5-1-29: Bribery; Offering Or Accepting
5-1-30: Village Jurisdiction
5-1-31: Civil Remedies Preserved
5-1-32: Saving Clause
5-1-33: Parental Responsibility For Acts Of Minors
5-1-34: Penalty
5-1-35: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-1-36: Possession Of Cannabis
5-1-1: FORTUNE TELLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain money or property from another by
practicing or assuming to practice the holding of oneself out as skilled in
fortune telling by means of card reading, palmistry, phrenology, clairvoyancy,
astrology, seership, spirit mediumship or any crafty science, or by means of
any other device or practice whereby money is obtained from the general public
on the pretense of exercise of occult or psychic powers whether said money or
property is obtained directly or indirectly or whether said practice is given
in connection with the sale of a product or service. (1974 Code § 6.9.1)
5-1-2: HINDERING VILLAGE EMPLOYEES:
Whoever shall hinder or obstruct any persons employed by the board of trustees
of the village in any village work, or public work whatever within the village,
shall be subject to being found guilty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 12.4.1; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1, 11-7-2011)
5-1-3: KILLING BIRDS:
Whoever shall kill, wound or attempt to kill or wound any bird by any means,
except pigeons or the starling and English sparrow, within the village limits,
or whoever shoots any arrow, stone or other shot or throws a club or other
missile at any bird within the confines of any private or public ground or
street, or whatever shall enter upon any private enclosure or public ground for
the purpose of doing any act prohibited by this section shall be fined as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1,
11-7-2011)
5-1-4: LITTERING:
No person shall litter any street, or any public or private property with
handbills, paper or debris. No person shall so distribute any advertising
matter or handbills so that they may be blown about or result in the littering
of the street, or any public or private property. (1974 Code § 6.4.1)
5-1-5: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES 1 :
   (A)   No person shall bring any alcoholic liquor into any dining room of any
hotel, restaurant, clubroom or place where lunches are served, or where soft
drinks are sold, or a soda fountain is operated, "spiking" any alcoholic liquor
or any other beverage whatsoever.
   (B)   No owner or proprietor, or agent or employee thereof, of any
restaurant, store or other commercial establishment inviting or permitting
public patronage shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquors on the
premises except those specifically licensed for consumption on the premises. No
person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public property or in any automobile or vehicle traveling upon or parked
on any street, alley or public property. (Ord., 8-15-1977)
   (C)   No person shall possess alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle with the
original seal thereof broken. (Ord., 9-19-1994)
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined as set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1,
11-7-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 2 of this code for liquor regulations.
5-1-6: DRUNKENNESS:
No person shall be in a state of intoxication or drunkenness in any street,
sidewalk or other public place, or place open to public view, or in any private
house or place to the annoyance of any person. (Ord., 9-19-1994)
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined as set forth
in section
 1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1,
11-7-2011)
5-1-7: WEAPONS RESTRICTED WITHIN VILLAGE:
   (A)   Discharge Of Weapons: No person shall fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, or other firearm within the village, except upon the premises used duly
for licensed shooting gallery or gun club, provided a cannon or piece of
artillery may be discharged or fired off in a public way or other public place
within the village, upon the express written permission of the village council.
   (B)   Air Rifles Or Air Pistols 1 :
      1.   Carrying: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to carry any air rifle or air pistol on the public streets,
roads, highways or public lands within the village, unless such person under
eighteen (18) years of age carries such rifle or pistol unloaded.
      2.   Discharging: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any
air rifle or air pistol from or across any street, sidewalk, road, highway or
public land or any public place except on a safely constructed target range.
   (C)   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
sheriffs, coroners, constables, members of the police force or other peace
officers engaged in the discharge of their official duties or to any person
summoned by such officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the peace
while such person so summoned is engaged in assisting such officer. (Ord., 1-6-
1992)
   (D)   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be
fined as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1,
11-7-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 535/8.
5-1-8: DANGEROUS WEAPONS PROHIBITED:
No person shall carry, possess or sell, loan, or give to any person any
firearm, any blackjack, slingshot, metal knuckles, bludgeon or knife which has
a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring,
or other device in the handle of the knife commonly referred to as a
switchblade knife, or carry or possess, with the intent to use the knife
against another, a dagger, a dirk, bill, any dangerous knife, razor, stiletto,
or other dangerous or deadly weapon or instruments of like character. (Ord., 9-
19-1994)
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined as set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1,
11-7-2011)
5-1-9: DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE:
   (A)   No person shall disturb the peace of the village, or any private party
or any person therein by any act done in such unreasonable manner as to alarm
or disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace. (Ord., 8-15-1977)
   (B)   No person shall, within the village, challenge another to a fight, or
shall threaten or traduce another, or shall use any profane, obscene or
offensive language, or indulge in any conduct toward another tending to provoke
a disturbance or breach of the peace. (Ord., 9-19-1994)
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined as set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1,
11-7-2011)
5-1-10: REGULATIONS FOR SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND BICYCLES:
   (A)   That no person shall rollerskate or ride a skateboard upon the
sidewalk and/or street located in the 100 block of West Taylor Street, the 100
block of South Main Street and the 100 block of North Main Street. That within
this area, bicycles shall be allowed to be operated only upon the street. (Ord.
97-10-6, 6-10-1997)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined as
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 97-10-6, 6-10-1997; amd. Ord. 11-11-
07-1, 11-7-2011)
5-1-11: ASSAULT, BATTERY AND AFFRAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight, or to fight, or
to commit any assault or assault and battery anywhere within the village. A
person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in conduct
which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. A
person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly, without legal
justification and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual, or b)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-12: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; BREACH OF PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct; by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting; or by using obscene, offensive, profane or
unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance or vexation of another; or to
be guilty of any conduct calculated to breach the peace. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-
19-2006)
5-1-13: DISORDERLY CONDUCT BY TELEPHONE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or permit another to make, any
obscene, anonymous or falsely represented telephone calls to another person for
the purpose or reason of nuisance, harassment or to breach the peace, or using
obscene, offensive, profane or unseemly language in a phone call to the
annoyance, disturbance or vexation of another; or to be guilty of any other
conduct using a telephone, such as making multiple calls and hang ups,
calculated to breach the peace. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-14: MOB ACTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in mob action, as defined
herein:
   (A)   The use of force, violence or other disruptive conduct by two (2) or
more persons acting together, without lawful authority, so as to constitute a
breach of the peace; or
   (B)   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two (2) or more persons without authority of law to do
violence to the person or property of another. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-15: TRESPASSING:
   (A)   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to commit a trespass within this municipality upon either public or
private property.
   (B)   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses, Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection (A) of this section, any of
the following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of said
subsection (A) of this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder
at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or
violations of this chapter, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as
follows:
      1.   To enter upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest, given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   To pursue a course of conduct or action incidental to the making of
an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or exhibited
at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry, or
in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by
the owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   To fail or refuse to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
      4.   To enter into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-16: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF OR DESTRUCTION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously tear
up, injure, deface or destroy any property, real or personal, belonging to the
village; or any property, used in any business impressed with a public interest
and usually designated as a public service corporation i.e., waterworks, gas,
electric light, telephone, street, railroad or steam heating companies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
interfere or meddle in any way with the operation of any such business, as
above enumerated. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-17: PROSTITUTION DEFINED:
Any person who performs or offers or agrees to perform any of the following
acts for money commits an act of prostitution:
   (A)   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
   (B)   Any act of deviate sexual conduct, meaning any act of sexual
gratification involving the sex organs of one person and the mouth or anus of
another. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-18: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION:
Any person who keeps, maintains or exercises control over the use of any
premises which could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of
prostitution, and who performs any of the following acts, shall be deemed to
keep a place of prostitution:
   (A)   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such premises for the purpose
of prostitution; or
   (B)   Grants or permits the use of such premises under circumstances from
which he should reasonably be aware that such premises are used or about to be
used for purposes of prostitution; or
   (C)   Permits the continued use of premises after becoming aware of facts or
circumstances from which he should reasonably know that such premises are being
used for purposes of prostitution. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-19: PATRONIZING A PROSTITUTE:
Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not his spouse
commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
   (A)   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct with
a prostitute; or
   (B)   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution in the company of a
prostitute with the intent to engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate
sexual conduct. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-20: SOLICITING FOR A PROSTITUTE:
Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting for a
prostitute:
   (A)   Solicits another person for the purpose of prostitution; or
   (B)   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose of
prostitution; or
   (C)   Directs another person to a place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-21: PANDERING:
Any person who performs any of the following acts for money commits pandering:
   (A)   Compels a female to become a prostitute; or
   (B)   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a female may commit
prostitution. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-22: PIMPING:
Any person who receives money or other property from a prostitute, not for a
lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in part from an act of
prostitution commits pimping. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-23: PUBLIC INDECENCY; ACTS OR LANGUAGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent, lewd or
lascivious act in any public place in the village, or to utter any lewd or
offensive words or to use any threatening or abusive language publicly and
within the hearing of another person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in a
state of nudity, or to make any indecent exposure of his person or to be guilty
of any other lewd or indecent act or behavior.
   (C)   "Public place", for purposes of this section, means any place where
such conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (Ord. 06-19-06-
8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-24: OBSCENITY DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell, print,
offer to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute or attempt to
distribute any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, motion picture film, play,
image, instrument, statue, drawing or other article which is obscene.
   (B)   "Obscene" for the purpose of this section, is defined as follows:
Whether to a reasonable person applying contemporary community standards, the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests,
and is without redeeming social value. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-25: OBSCENE MARKING IN PUBLIC VIEW PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write, mark, draw, cut or make any
profane or indecent words, sentence, design or figure in any place open to
public view. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-26: OBSCENITY; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be an affirmative defense to charge under sections
5-1-24 and
5-1-25 of this chapter that the dissemination:
   (A)   Was not for sale or gain, and was made only to personal associates
other than children under eighteen (18) years of age; or
   (B)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other special
education purpose for possession of such material. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-27: WINDOW PEEPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer, peep into or be found
loitering about and within view of any window within a building occupied as a
residence of another, with the intent of watching or observing the activities
of persons therein. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-28: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble within the
village, provided nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prohibit an
activity lawful under the laws of the state of Illinois.
   (B)   Gambling Place: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
permit any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him to be used as a
gambling place within the village.
   (C)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
   GAMBLING: Occurs when any person:
      1.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other things of value;
or
      2.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
      3.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of any gambling device; or
      4.   Knowingly owns or possesses any books, instruments or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered; or
      5.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
      6.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or offers
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
      7.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket or other similar device; or
      8.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts, prints or
publishes any lottery ticket or share or any policy ticket or similar device or
any advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
      9.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
chances in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except that nothing in this subsection 9 shall prohibit
transmission or receipt of such information for the use of news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
devices for the reception of money or other things of value on chance or skill
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost, or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. However, a gambling
device does not include:
      1.   A coin operated mechanical device played for amusement which awards
the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which device is so
constructed or devised as to make such result of the operations thereof depend
in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the player thereof no
money, property or right to receive money or property, and which is commonly
known as a pinball machine; or
      2.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
GAMBLING PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever
used for the purpose of gambling.
LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift or sale of some other name.
POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees by
an instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   (D)   Food And Liquor Licenses: Whenever any premises are determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be a gambling place, all village licenses or
permits issued authorizing the serving of food or alcoholic liquor on such
premises shall become void; and no license or permit so voided shall be
reissued for such premises for a period of sixty (60) days thereafter; nor
shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be reissued any such
license or permit for one year from date of his conviction and after a second
conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be reissued
any such license or permit.
   (E)   Seizure Of Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds: Every gambling device
which is incapable of lawful use constitutes contraband and shall be subject to
seizure and confiscation by village police officers. Any money or other thing
of value intrinsically related to acts of gambling shall be seized and
forfeited as contraband to the village. Disposition of such gambling devices
seized or confiscated shall be made according to law. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-
2006)
5-1-29: BRIBERY; OFFERING OR ACCEPTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To offer, promise or give to any official, police officer or employee
of the village any money, reward, service, privilege or thing of value which he
may not otherwise lawfully accept, with intent to influence the performance or
nonperformance of any official act, function, duty or employment.
   (B)   To agree to accept, receive or retain any money, reward, service,
privilege or thing of value which he may not otherwise lawfully accept, knowing
or with reason to know that such benefit was offered, promised or given with
intent to influence him in the performance or nonperformance of any official
act, function, duty or employment. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-30: VILLAGE JURISDICTION:
   (A)   A person is subject to prosecution by the village for any offense in
this title and title 8 of this code which he commits, while either within or
outside the village, by his own conduct or that of another for which he is
legally accountable, if:
      1.   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the village;
or
      2.   The conduct outside the village constitutes an attempt to commit an
offense within the village; or
      3.   The conduct outside the village constitutes a conspiracy to commit
an offense within the village and an act in furtherance of the conspiracy
occurs in the village; or
      4.   The conduct within the village constitutes an attempt, solicitation
or conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under the laws of
both this village and such other jurisdiction.
   (B)   An offense is committed partly within the village if either the
conduct which is an element of the offense or the result which is such an
element, occurs within the village.
   (C)   An offense which is based on an omission to perform a duty imposed by
the laws of the village is committed within the village regardless of the
location of the offender at the time of the omission. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-
2006)
5-1-31: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishable; and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (Ord. 06-
19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-32: SAVING CLAUSE:
If any part, article, section or subdivision of this chapter shall be held
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction for any
reason, such holding shall not be construed to invalidate or impair the
remaining provisions of this chapter, which shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding such holding. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006)
5-1-33: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS OF MINORS:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this section unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the meanings ascribed to them:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian,
or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not eighteen
(18) years of age.
   (B)   Parental Responsibility; Acts Committed: The parent or legal guardian
of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility and said minor shall be deemed to have
committed the acts described below with the knowledge and permission of the
parent or guardian, in violation of this section, upon the occurrence of the
events described in subsections (B)1, (B)2 and (B)3 of this section;
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting intentional, wilful, malicious or wanton acts causing injury to a
person or property, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any
ordinance, law or statute prohibiting intentional, wilful, malicious acts
causing injury to a person or property; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate or personal service returned from the
police department of the village following said adjudication or nonjudicial
sanction; and
      3.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in subsection (B)2 of this section, said minor is either adjudicated to
be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection
(B)1 of this section, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any
ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection (B)1 of this section.
(Ord. 07-12-17-1, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. 10-06-07-2, 6-7-2010)
   (C)   Penalty: Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of
this section shall be fined as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense plus cost of cleanup. (Ord. 07-12-17-1, 12-
17-2007; amd. Ord. 10-06-07-2, 6-7-2010; Ord. 11-11-07-1, 11-7-2011)
5-1-34: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating sections
5-1-14 and
5-1-16 through and including 5-1-29 of this chapter shall be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) for any one offense. In addition to any fines, any person convicted
of a violation of sections
5-1-14 and
5-1-16 through and including 5-1-29 of this chapter may be incarcerated in the
Kankakee County Jail for a period not to exceed three hundred sixty four (364)
days. (Ord. 06-19-06-8, 6-19-2006; amd. Ord. 10-06-07-2, 6-7-2010; Ord. 11-11-
07-1, 11-7-2011)
5-1-35: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   (A)   Definition: As used in this section, "drug paraphernalia" shall have
the meaning ascribed to it in section 2 of the Illinois drug paraphernalia
control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq., as if that
definition were incorporated herein.
   (B)   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess
drug paraphernalia.
   (C)   Exemptions:
      1.   This section does not apply to:
         (a)   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling,
or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to lawful
research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
         (b)   Items historically and customarily used in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance. Items exempt under this
subsection include, but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles,
baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers.
         (c)   Items listed in subsection (A) of this section which are used
for decorative purposes, when such items have been rendered completely
inoperable or incapable of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by
this section.
         (d)   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic
syringes or needles under the hypodermic syringes and needles act.
      2.   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
section, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
         (a)   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
         (b)   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
         (c)   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         (d)   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         (e)   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
         (f)   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         (g)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (h)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 11-09-06-1, 9-6-2011)
5-1-36: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   (A)   Definition: The term "cannabis" shall have the meaning ascribed to it
in section 3 of the cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/
1 et seq., as if that definition were incorporated herein.
   (B)   Possession: It is unlawful for any person knowingly to possess
cannabis. Any person who possesses not more than 2.5 grams of cannabis shall be
guilty of the offense of possession of cannabis. (Ord. 11-09-06-2, 9-6-2011)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Animal Control Personnel; Operation Of Program; Animal Welfare Advisory
Committee (AWAC)
5-2-2: Inoculation, Registration And Microchipping Of Dogs And Cats
5-2-3: Breeder Annual License Requirements And Fees
5-2-4: Animal Bites And Impoundment Of Dogs
5-2-5: Redemption Of Impounded Dogs
5-2-6: Adoption
5-2-7: Dispatch Of Animals
5-2-8: Education On Animal Control And Rabies
5-2-9: Inhumane Or Cruel Treatment; Impoundment
5-2-10: Fees For Boarding, Euthanasia And/Or Disposal
5-2-11: Animal Nuisances And Trespasses
5-2-12: Microchipped Identification Of Animals Required Prior To Release; Fee
5-2-13: Acceptance OF Stray Dogs And Cats And Other Animals
5-2-14: Prohibiting The Sale Of Dogs And Cats At Swap Meets
5-2-15: Restricting The Sale Of Dogs And Cats
5-2-16: Reckless Dog Owner
5-2-1: ANIMAL CONTROL PERSONNEL; OPERATION OF PROGRAM; ANIMAL WELFARE ADVISORY
COMMITTEE (AWAC) 1 :
   (A)   Administrator: A veterinarian licensed by the state of Illinois and
appointed pursuant to this section, or a non-veterinarian may serve as
administrator under the Illinois Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.). In
the event the administrator is not a veterinarian, the administrator shall
defer to the deputy administrator regarding all medical decisions.
      1.   The county board chairman with the consent of the county board and
recommendation of the sheriff, shall appoint an administrator. Appointments
shall be made as necessary to keep this position filled at all times. The
administrator may be removed from office by the county board chairman, with the
consent of the county board.
      2.   The administrator may appoint as many deputy administrators and
animal control wardens to aid him or her as authorized by the board.
      3.   The compensation for the administrator, deputy administrators, and
animal control wardens shall be fixed by the board. The administrator may be
removed from office by the county board chairman, with the consent of the
county board.
   (B)   Deputy administrator: A veterinarian licensed by the state of
Illinois, appointed by the administrator or the county board.
   (C)   Animal welfare advisory committee (AWAC):
      1.   The purpose of the committee is to provide representatives of the
animal community an opportunity to provide their insights and experience to the
county board when it comes to needed county actions regarding companion animals
or modifications of the current animal ordinances; and
      2.   AWAC shall consist of eight members, to-wit: Two county board
members to serve as voting members; six advisory members, including one county
veterinarian, members of the shelter community, and members at large, and that
advisory members shall serve without compensation; and the animal control
administrator shall serve as a non-voting member of the subcommittee.
      3.   The community services committee is hereby given authority to select
the individuals who will serve on the subcommittee and the subcommittee will be
reportable to the community services committee. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
 
Notes
1    State law reference(s): Appointment of officials to enforce Animal Control
  Act, 510 ILCS 5/3.
5-2-2: INOCULATION, REGISTRATION AND MICROCHIPPING OF DOGS AND CATS 1 :
   (A)   Vaccination. The inoculation of dogs and cats as required by 510 ILCS
5/8 shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his
profession in this state. Either a one-year or three-year vaccination is
acceptable except as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   Rabies prevention. All cats and dogs four months or older are required
to have rabies shots in order to prevent the spread of rabies among dogs, cats
and other animals.
   (C)   Official registration certificate, registration fee required. The
veterinarian who inoculated the dog or cat shall complete the official
registration certificate including official rabies vaccination record and
official registration data except for validation of registration and the name
of the registering officer. The original registration shall be remitted, along
with registration fees collected, to the county's animal control department by
the veterinarian. The veterinarian shall retain a copy of the registration for
his records and shall provide a copy of the registration, instruction material,
and rabies inoculation tag, as provided by the county, to the registrant.
   (D)   The registrant shall remit the required registration fee for each dog
and cat owned at the time of inoculation for animals vaccinated within Kankakee
County. Failure to pay the registration tag fee(s) at the time of inoculation
(s) given within Kankakee County shall be a violation of this section. The
registration tag fee must be paid to the county animal control department when
a vaccination is obtained out of county within fifteen (15) days.
   (E)   Lab fees for rabies specimens taken as determined to be necessary or
prudent at the discretion of the animal control administrator or the
administrator's designee shall be assessed as stated in section
5-2-1.
   (F)   Fee waived. The registration fee may be waived for dogs and cats used
by research facilities for research purposes as long as said animals are
confined on the premises of the facility.
   (G)   Waiver of fees for handicapped individuals with dogs. Dog tag fees
associated with rabies vaccination of dogs should be waived by the animal
control department for individuals who provide proof of their certification of
service dogs associated with their disabled status.
   (H)   Microchipping. All dogs and cats in the county must be microchipped
for identification at the time of their rabies vaccination. Puppies and kittens
must be microchipped by nine months of age. The microchip number shall serve as
the animal control registration number.
   (I)   There shall be a separate and additional registration fee for
unaltered dogs and cats with the microchip number of the animal(s) to be used
as the registration number. The fee shall be as stated in section
5-2-1. Dogs and cats that are spayed or neutered shall be registered at no
cost. The fees collected from this registration fee shall be placed into the
animal population control fund. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
 
Notes
1    State law reference(s): Inoculation of dogs, 510 ILCS 5/8.
5-2-3: BREEDER ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND FEES:
   (A)   Breeder: Is an individual or business entity duly recognized and
licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture, or is registered with
Kankakee County as an owner of three or more breedable adult male and/or female
dogs or cats.
   (B)   Responsibilities: Dog and cat owners who are also breeders must be in
full compliance with the county's animal control ordinance, including the
rabies vaccination, registration and microchipping laws of this county and
applicable state and federal regulations. Breeders must also obtain an annual
kennel license at a fee approved by the county board.
   (C)   Breeder license requirements:
      1.   Inspections. An applicant for a breeder license shall consent to the
inspection of the premises where his or her animals are kept or maintained.
Such inspection shall be performed before issuance of the annual license or
upon receipt of a complaint. Annual inspections shall be required for licensed
breeders. The county animal control department or their duly authorized
delegate may perform such inspection. Failure to comply with a request for
inspection is a violation of this article.
         (a)   Failure to comply with an inspection request by the county
animal control department or their duly authorized representative may result in
any or all of the following:
            (1)   The immediate suspension by the animal control administrator
of the breeder's license and the ability to operate a breeder facility.
               A.   The breeder shall have the right to an appeal of such
suspension by a hearing to be held upon written request made to the county
animal control administrator.
               B.   The hearing shall be conducted under article VI, sections
2-435 to 2-454 of the County Code before a hearing officer appointed by the
county board.
               C.   Appeal of the hearing officer's decision shall be by
administrative review.
               D.   The breeder may have prepared, and bear the costs of, any
transcript and record of the adjudicatory hearing proceedings at its own
expense.
            (2)   Each day a person or business entity fails to comply
constitutes a separate offense.
      2.   The applicant for a breeder's license shall not have been found
guilty of more than three violations of the animal control ordinance within the
previous three years from the date of application.
      3.   The owner shall immediately notify the county animal control
administrator or his/her designee of any change in the animals governed by the
breeder license including the rabies vaccination and registration required
pursuant to this article.
      4.   If a breeder is found to be guilty of any portion of this section
10-3 three times, their license will be immediately revoked and animals will be
surrendered to animal control and they shall not own, possess, or harbor any
dogs or cats for a period of three years.
      5.   An applicant for a breeder license shall provide proof that the
premises is located in an area with proper zoning or have received a variance
from the proper authority.
      6.   Holders of a breeder license shall meet the following requirements
for an indoor facility at which a person keeps dogs and cats pursuant to a
license under this article.
         (a)   Primary enclosure: A "primary enclosure" is an enclosed space
where a dog or cat spends the majority of its sleeping and resting time.
         (b)   Primary enclosure for cats must meet the following requirements:
            (1)   Be indoors.
            (2)   Individual cages should be made of stainless steel,
fiberglass, or other impervious material and should follow these guidelines:
               A.   Provide an area of at least nine square cubic feet (usually
three feet by three feet) for each cat.
               B.   Supply each cage with a cat litter pan.
               C.   Ensure that each cat has constant access to water and dry
food.
               D.   House no more than one cat in a cage, except for nursing
mothers, young litters of kittens, or pairs of adult cats who are bonded with
one another.
            (3)   If colony cages are used to house cats, follow the guidelines
listed below:
               A.   Cats whose vaccination history is unknown should be
evaluated for health and behavior, vaccinated, and isolated for at least
twenty-four (24) hours for observation before being placed in cat-colony cage
rooms.
               B.   Separate unsterilized males from females.
               C.   Separate nursing mothers from all others.
               D.   Separate young kittens from adult cats (except for their
mothers).
               E.   House no more than fifteen (15) adult cats or twenty (20)
kittens in a ten-foot by fifteen (15)-foot room.
               F.   Include one twelve (12)-inch by eighteen (18)-inch cat
litter pan for every three (3) cats or five (5) kittens.
               G.   Have water and dry food available at all times (when giving
fresh food, use one dish per cat).
               H.   Equip colony rooms with shelves or resting boxes; provide
cages with open doors for animals who prefer to be isolated.
         (c)   Primary enclosure (indoor/outdoor) for dogs must meet the
following requirements:
            (1)   Dogs confined in either cages or kennels should have room to
move about normally.
            (2)   Stainless-steel or custom-made individual cages for should
follow these minimum size guidelines:
               A.   Small dogs (up to twenty-five (25) pounds): At least three
feet by four feet, or twelve (12) square cubic feet.
               B.   Medium-sized dogs (twenty-five (25) through fifty (50)
pounds): At least four feet by five (5) feet, or twenty (20) square cubic feet.
               C.   Large dogs (more than 50 pounds): At least four (4) feet by
six (6) feet, or twenty-four (24) square cubic feet.
            (3)   Dogs confined in cages should be exercised in runs at least
four (4) feet by ten (10) feet twice daily or walked on a leash for at least
twenty (20) minutes twice daily.
            (4)   Kennels with runs, whether fully enclosed or indoor/outdoor,
should follow these minimum size guidelines:
               A.   Runs: Four (4) feet by ten (10) feet.
            (5)   Ideally, each dog should have his or her own kennel. Animals
who share kennels must be evaluated for compatibility and monitored closely.
Each should have ample room to stand, lie down, turn around, and sit normally.
This requires a minimum area of four feet by four (4) feet for each dog. A
shared five (5)-foot by ten (10)-foot kennel should hold no more than two (2)
large, two (2) medium, or three (3) small dogs.
            (6)   The height of the primary enclosure must be at least twenty-
four (24) inches taller than the tallest dog in the enclosure.
            (7)   Outdoor primary enclosure:
               A.   Shall be constructed and maintained to prevent dogs from
escaping from the enclosure;
               B.   If any portion of the primary enclosure is covered by a
roof or overhead screen, the roof or screen must be at least twenty-four (24)
inches higher than the standing height of the tallest dog in the primary
enclosure.
      7.   Holders of a breeder license shall conform to the following
requirements:
         (a)   Inoculations and microchipping:
            (1)   All dogs and/or cats over four months of age must be
inoculated against rabies and registered pursuant to this article.
            (2)   All dogs and cats must be microchipped pursuant to this
article.
            (3)   Change in ownership information shall be made to the Kankakee
County Animal Control Department.
         (b)   Humane care and treatment of animals by breeders.
            (1)   All dogs and/or cats must be provided with a continuous
supply of fresh water, sufficient food to maintain acceptable body weight,
proper shelter, protection from the weather and sufficient veterinary care to
prevent suffering.
            (2)   If the dogs and/or cats are kept or maintained within a
building, such building shall:
               A.   Comply with the Kankakee County Code.
               B.   Be kept clean, free of feces and urine.
               C.   Not constitute a nuisance or danger to the health or
welfare of its inhabitants nor surrounding residents.
               D.   Be well ventilated with a means of circulating the air in
all areas of the kennel to be exchanged with outside air.
               E.   Maintain appropriate temperature to prevent suffering;
heating shall be deemed necessary when the inside ambient temperature of the
facility falls below fifty (50) degrees Fahrenheit for a period of four
consecutive hours and cooling shall be required when the temperature of the
facility rises above eighty-five (85) degrees Fahrenheit at any given time.
               F.   Be provided with natural sunlight.
               G.   Shall not be housed on wire, grid or slat flooring that
allows an animal's foot or toes to pass through the openings, sags under the
weight of the animal, or otherwise does not protect the animal's feet or toes
from harm or injury. Solid surface must made of material that can be properly
sanitized and must be large enough for the animal to lie on its side with limbs
fully stretched without hanging over solid surface. If multiple animals are
housed together solid surface must be large enough for each animal to fully
stretch out without over lapping each other and not hang off solid surface.
            (3)   Dogs that are kept or maintained outside a building must be a
breed suitable for living outdoor and the following shall exist for each
animal:
               A.   A shelter of sufficient size to permit such animal to stand
up and turn around inside when full grown shall be provided at all time and
have constant access to a four-foot by ten-foot covered run.
               B.   The shelter shall have four sides, a roof, floor and
bedding. The shelter shall be placed to provide shade from the sun and
protection from the weather.
               C.   The shelter shall be placed in the rear yard.
               D.   The shelter shall be placed at least ten feet from all
property lines.
               E.   The surface around the shelter should drain away from the
animal so that water cannot pool and cause the animal to be constantly wet.
There must be a solid surface that can be sanitized and appropriate to the size
of the animal so it may lie on it's side able to fully stretch it's limbs
without hanging over the edge of the hard surface.
               F.   A tether cannot be the sole means of containing the animal
to the shelter.
               G.   A dog shall be deemed to be housed outside if said dog is
outside for more than eight hours in the aggregate during any twenty-four (24)-
hour period or is outside for more than thirty (30) minutes between the hours
of eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m.
            (4)   The dogs and/or cats shall be prevented from running at
large.
            (5)   The dogs and/or cats shall be prevented from causing a
nuisance.
            (6)   The owner's property shall be kept free of all feces and
urine to prevent its accumulation from constituting a health hazard or an
odorous nuisance.
            (7)   Separate sick and or aggressive animals from well animals.
            (8)   Intact males and females shall be housed separately unless a
planned breeding is taking place.
            (9)   Nursing mothers and litters are to remain co-located, but
separate from other animals until the litter is at least eight weeks of age.
            (10)   All deceased animals are to be properly disposed of within
twenty-four (24) hours and in accordance with Illinois state law.
            (11)   Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate
offense(s).
   (D)   Reporting requirements. All licensed breeders shall cooperate and
provide information to the administrator including sales, adoptions, source,
dispositions, number of litters, microchip numbers and ownership of dogs or
cats, a minimum of one time annually by November 15 or the first business day
if the fifteenth (15th) falls on the weekend or as requested by the county
animal control department.
      1.   If the report is not filed a late fee as stated in section
5-2-1 of this Code will be assessed on the thirty-first (31) day past the
report date and an additional fee as stated in section
5-2-1 of this Code will be assessed for each additional thirty (30)-day period
that the report remains unfiled.
      2.   If after six (6) months there has been no report filed, the license
shall be suspended and all animals will be turned over to animal control.
      3.   All late fees must be paid in full before the breeder's license is
issued.
   (E)   Adjudication of offenses. The adjudication of all section
5-2-3 code offenses shall be before the Twenty First Judicial Circuit Court, or
alternatively, before a hearing officer under authority and procedures within
article VI, sections 2-435 to 2-454, of the County Code at the discretion of
the animal control administrator upon the advice of the states attorneys
office.
   (F)   The penalty for violating of any portion of section
5-2-3 shall be a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense and a minimum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense
and all fines shall be consistent with the section of this Code related to
fines and penalties.
   (G)   Breeder license fees are as stated in section
5-2-1 of this Code. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-4: ANIMAL BITES AND IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS:
   (A)   Investigation; quarantine procedures. The animal control warden
supervisor and animal control wardens shall investigate all bites by dogs and
other animals. If a nonvaccinated dog shall bite a person, that dog shall be
quarantined at the county animal control center for a period of ten days.
Vaccinated dogs may be quarantined in the home of the owner, if after
inspection by the animal control warden supervisor, the facilities are deemed
satisfactory for confinement.
   (B)   Impoundment. Any dog found not wearing a valid vaccination tag may be
apprehended and impounded at the county animal control center.
   (C)   Death of animal before end of confinement period. If an animal that
has bitten a person dies before the required ten days confinement period has
elapsed, the head shall be immediately presented for rabies inspection. If a
wild animal has bitten a person, said animal shall be immediately destroyed and
the head presented for rabies examination. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-5: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS 1 :
   (A)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter which has
not bitten a person shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for a period of at
least three days, plus holidays, if the owner of such animal is unknown, or for
at least seven days, plus holidays, if the owner of such animal is known or can
be determined. Any owner or keeper of such animals desiring to redeem same
shall pay the fees for impoundment, boarding, registration, and service, as
stated in section
5-2-1, as circumstances warrant.
   (B)   The following shall be violations of this Code:
      1.   No rabies vaccination.
      2.   No registration.
      3.   Violation of any leash law which the county is obligated to enforce
by statute, ordinance or intergovernmental agreement to enforce ordinances.
Violations of this section shall be assessed as stated in section
5-2-1 of this Code. All subsequent violations are assessed only for the same
animal previously cited. In addition to the fines stated in section
5-2-1 of this Code there shall be assessed an additional twenty-five dollars
($25.00) public safety fine as required by state statute 510 ILCS 5/10 with
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to be paid into the pet population control fund.
The fine shall be waived if it is the dog or cat's first impoundment and the
owner has the animal spayed or neutered within fourteen (14) days and after
paying for registration and microchipping if not already done. (Ord. O-6-22-3,
6-20-2022)
 
Notes
1    State law reference(s): Impoundment generally, 510 ILCS 5/9 et seq.
5-2-6: ADOPTION:
   (A)   Compliance with state statutes. Animals will be adopted in accordance
with state law, although certain local requirements, including but not limited
to, vaccination, registration, spaying and neutering, may apply for benefit of
the public's health, safety, and welfare and for the humane treatment of
animals.
   (B)   Right to deny adoption. The county animal control has the right to
deny adoption of animals to anyone for any reason.
   (C)   Fees. Fees for the adoption of animals shall be as stated in section
5-2-1. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-7: DISPATCH OF ANIMALS:
   (A)   Owner notified. Any animal impounded under the provisions of this
chapter whose owner or keeper is known shall be held for a period of not less
than seven days, plus holidays, after notice is given to the owner. This notice
shall be mailed to the last-known address of the owner or keeper. An affidavit
or testimony of the animal control director or an animal control officer who
mails such notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice
by the owner or keeper of such animal. If the owner or keeper of such animal
fails to redeem it after the above notice and impoundment period have elapsed,
such animal shall be humanely dispatched by a certified euthanasia technician.
   (B)   Owner unknown. Any animal impounded under the provisions of this
chapter whose owner is not known shall be held for a period of not less than
three days after impoundment, plus holidays. If its owner or keeper fails to
redeem it after the impoundment period has elapsed, such animal shall be
humanely dispatched.
   (C)   Seriously ill or injured animals. Any animal which in the opinion of
an animal control director with advice from animal control administrator is
seriously ill or injured when brought into the animal control facility may be
dispatched immediately.
   (D)   At request of owner. At the request of the owner, pets will be
humanely dispatched by a certified euthanasia technician.
   (E)   After biting a person. Any animal that has bitten a human being and
cannot be confined by its owner, if known, or animal control officers, may be
dispatched by any law enforcement officer.
   (F)   Stray dogs. Any stray dog whose owner is not known after one week and
after reasonable efforts to identify and locate its owner have been made, which
is unable to be restrained by animal control officers under normal practices,
and which is a nuisance may be humanely dispatched after receiving permission
from the supervisor of the animal control department. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-
2022)
5-2-8: EDUCATION ON ANIMAL CONTROL AND RABIES:
It shall be the duty of the animal control director to establish a program of
education on animal control and rabies for the benefit of the general public.
(Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-9: INHUMANE OR CRUEL TREATMENT; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Impoundment. Animal control wardens may impound a cat or dog
immediately after issuing a written citation to an owner, if available, for the
following inhumane conditions:
      1.   No person or owner shall cruelly treat, beat, torment, starve,
overwork or otherwise abuse his animal or another person's animal.
      2.   No owner shall knowingly abandon any animal where it may become a
public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure.
      3.   No owner of a dog or cat that is a companion animal may expose the
dog or cat in a life-threatening situation for a prolonged period of time in
extreme heat or cold conditions:
         (a)   That results in injury to or death of the animal; or
         (b)   That results in hypothermia, hyperthermia, frostbite, or similar
condition as diagnosed by a doctor of veterinary medicine.
      4.   No owner of a dog or cat that is a companion animal shall leave it
unattended inside a vehicle when outdoor temperatures are dangerous to the
animal's health.
   (B)   Owners must provide for each of their animals adequate and sanitary
shelter that allows the animal protection from the weather, allowing them to
maintain safe and normal body temperature as well as keep the animal dry all
year plus have access to fresh water at all times.
   (C)   Fees. Any dog or cat may be reclaimed after paying all incurred fees
which apply to such animal such as pickup, board, redemption, fines if any, and
veterinarian expenses.
   (D)   Reclamation, time limit. Any dog or cat not reclaimed within seven
days will be adopted out or euthanized.
   (E)   The animal control department shall make available humane traps to any
resident of the county. The fees and deposit associated with this service shall
be as stated in section
5-2-1.
   (F)   Animal control will pick up animals from humane treatment traps within
the county as stated in section
5-2-1.
   (G)   Shelter. Shelter shall have four sides, a roof, floor, and bedding.
The shelter shall be of sufficient size to permit such animal to stand up and
turn around inside when fully grown and allow retention of body heat. The
shelter shall be placed to provide shade from the sun and protection from the
weather.
   (H)   Bedding. Bedding is material that will provide warmth and comfort that
can be disposed of when compromised by weather, such as straw or wood shavings.
(Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-10: FEES FOR BOARDING, EUTHANASIA AND/OR DISPOSAL:
   (A)   When an owner turns his animal into the animal control facility the
owner shall pay fees as stated in section
5-2-1.
   (B)   The fee to a government entity for the boarding, euthanasia and/or
disposal of an animal brought to the county from such entity shall be as stated
in section
5-2-1.
   (C)   There shall be a one-hour minimum charge for animal warden assistance,
thereafter fees shall accrue at half-hour increments.
   (D)   The fee to a resident who voluntarily brings in an animal to animal
control for euthanasia and disposal shall be as stated in section
5-2-1.
   (E)   Lab fees for rabies specimens taken as determined to be necessary or
prudent at the discretion of the animal control administrator or the
administrator's designee shall be assessed as stated in section
5-2-1. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-11: ANIMAL NUISANCES AND TRESPASSES:
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
ANIMAL:          Means and includes both domestic and all other animals.
                 For the purposes of this chapter, shall be defined as a person
                 that is responsible for or has accepted responsibility for,
CUSTODIAN:       the care, custody, or control of any domestic animal or
                 livestock or who knowingly permits any said domestic animal or
                 livestock to remain on or about property occupied by said
                 individual.
                 Any animal that is commonly kept as a pet which shall include,
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: but not be limited to, dogs, cats, gerbils, birds, turtles,
                 mongooses, ferrets, snakes, iguanas, and guinea pigs.
                 For purposes of this chapter, means a person having a right to
                 property in a dog, cat or other animal, or has care, custody
OWNER:           or control of a dog, cat, or other animal, or who knowingly
                 permits a dog, cat, or other animal to remain on or about any
                 premises occupied by him.
 
   (B)   Offenses:
      1.   Running at large prohibited.
         (a)   No owner or custodian of any domestic animal or livestock shall
knowingly allow said animal to be at large in any unincorporated area of the
county or in any municipality that has entered into an intergovernmental
agreement with the county. All owners shall provide the necessary restraints to
prevent said domestic animal or livestock from running at large; it shall be a
defense to said violation that the owner or custodian had no knowledge that
said domestic animal or livestock was at large or that said owner or custodian
had used reasonable care in restraining such animals from running at large;
         (b)   No owner or custodian of any dog shall knowingly allow said
animal to be off of the owner's or custodian's property without a leash or
other restraint, any dog that is off said property without a leash or other
restraint shall be deemed to be running at large.
      2.   Barking dog. It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, or have in
his possession or harbor any dog which, by frequent whining, yelping, barking,
howling or other excessive noise causes a public nuisance or disturbs the
peace.
      3.   Animal waste. No owner or harborer of any animal shall allow the
unreasonable accumulation of excrement, urine, blood,vomit, or other animal
waste, dangerous to the health of human beings or animals.
      4.   Animal odors. No owner or harborer of any animal shall allow his
animal to cause any odors offensive to a reasonable person residing in the
vicinity, potentially dangerous to health, or creating any other nuisance.
      5.   Public nuisance. Any dog, cat, or other animal found running at
large in violation hereof is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be
apprehended and impounded in the manner provided for in this chapter. However,
if the animal cannot be safely apprehended and impounded, it may be destroyed
by state or local police authority.
   (C)   Court's equitable power to control nuisances:
      1.   Inspections after conviction. At the discretion of the judge, the
health department or animal control department shall be entitled to one or more
inspections every three months of the property of any defendant convicted of an
animal nuisance offense. Animal nuisance offenses shall include, but shall not
be limited to, any offense related to animals in the animal control or the
health department chapters of the Code.
      2.   Limiting defendant's domestic animals after conviction. Upon
recommendation of a county official from the health or animal control
departments, the court may, in its discretion, set the number of domestic
animals that a defendant may care for during the two years following
conviction.
   (D)   Defendant's right to demand an inspection:
      1.   No complaint filed before inspection. County officials shall not
file a complaint with the circuit clerk charging a resident of the county with
an animal nuisance violation before an authorized county official or sheriff's
department officer has inspected the property.
      2.   Refusal to allow inspection a waiver of right to inspection. Refusal
by a defendant to allow an authorized county official to inspect his property
shall constitute a waiver of the right to an inspection for the purposes of
this section.
   (E)   Enforcement: The animal control department, the health department, and
the sheriff's department are authorized to enforce any domestic animal nuisance
law contained in this chapter. However, this section does not authorize
duplicate prosecutions, investigations, or any other activity that would
subject a defendant to duplicate or multiple liability for the same offense.
   (F)   Penalties: Violations of this section shall be assessed as stated in
section
5-2-1 of this Code. Each running at large violation shall be assessed an
additional twenty-five dollars ($25.00) public safety fine as required by state
statute, 510 ILCS 5/9 with twenty dollars ($20.00) to be paid into the pet
population control fund and five dollars ($5.00) to be placed in Kankakee
County Animal Control general funds. A dog or cat found running at large for a
second or subsequent time shall be spayed or neutered prior to being reclaimed
on a second offense, unless already spayed or neutered. Failure to comply shall
result in impoundment of the animal.
   (G)   Redemption of a stray animal: Redemption of a stray animal shall be as
heretofore provided and the owner shall be responsible for all costs and fees
relating to the apprehension and impoundment of the animal.
   (H)   Owner turn-in fee: Any owner who does not reclaim an animal shall be
assessed, and must pay, the owner turn-in fee. Failure to pay said turn-in fee
shall constitute the offense of running at large under subsection (B)1. above
and be considered an abandonment of the animal subject to fines. Any abandoned
animal may be dispatched under section
5-2-7 or placed for adoption at the discretion of the Kankakee County Animal
Control Department under section
5-2-6 of this Code. Each individual animal shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-12: MICROCHIPPED IDENTIFICATION OF ANIMALS REQUIRED PRIOR TO RELEASE; FEE:
Each animal released to its owner by the county animal control department shall
have a microchipped identification fee. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-13: ACCEPTANCE OF STRAY DOGS AND CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS:
   (A)   Definitions: The following term shall apply to this chapter as written
unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                         Any facility operated by or under contract for the
                         state, county, or any municipal corporation or
ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY: political subdivision of the state for the purpose of
                         impounding or harboring seized, stray, homeless,
                         abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats, and other animals.
                         A facility operated, owned, or maintained by a duly
                         incorporated humane society, animal welfare society,
                         or other non-profit organization for the purpose of
                         providing for and promoting the welfare, protection,
ANIMAL SHELTER:          and humane treatment of animals. "Animal shelter" also
                         means any veterinary hospital or clinic operated by a
                         veterinarian, or veterinarians licensed under the
                         Veterinary Medicine and Surgery Practice Act of 2004
                         which operates for the above mentioned purpose in
                         addition to its customary purposes.
                         Any person having a right of property in an animal,
                         who keeps or harbors an animal, who has an animal in
                         his or her care or acts as its custodian, or who
OWNER:                   knowingly permits a dog to remain on any premises
                         occupied by him or her. "Owner" does not include a
                         feral cat caretaker participating in a trap, spay/
                         neuter, return or release program.
 
   (B)   No animal shelter, as defined in section
5-2-13(B), may accept a stray dog or cat unless the animal is reported by the
shelter to the animal control of the county in which the animal is found by the
next business day. An animal shelter may accept animals from:
      1.   The owner of the animal where the owner signs a relinquishment form
which states he or she is the owner of the animal;
      2.   An animal shelter licensed under the Act; or
      3.   An out-of-state animal control facility, rescue group, or animal
shelter that is duly licensed in their state or is a not-for-profit
organization.
   (C)   When stray dogs and cats are accepted by an animal shelter, they must
be scanned for the presence of a microchip and examined for other currently-
acceptable methods of identification, including, but not limited to,
identification tags, tattoos, and rabies license tags. The examination for
identification shall be done within twenty-four (24) hours after the intake of
each dog or cat. The animal shelter shall notify the owner and transfer any dog
or cat with an identified owner to the animal control in the jurisdiction in
which it was found or the local animal control agency for redemption.
   (D)   If no transfer can occur, the animal shelter shall make every
reasonable attempt to contact the owner, agent, or caretaker as soon as
possible. The animal shelter shall give notice of not less than seven business
days to the owner, agent, or caretaker prior to disposal of the animal. The
notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner, agent, or
caretaker. Testimony of the animal shelter, or its authorized agent, who mails
the notice shall be evidence of the receipt of the notice by the owner, agent
or caretaker of the animal. A mailed notice shall remain the primary means of
owner, agent, or caretaker contact; however, the animal shelter shall also
attempt to contact the owner, agent, or caretaker by any other contact
information, such as by telephone or email address, provided by the microchip
or other method of identification found on the dog or cat. If the dog or cat
has been microchipped and the primary contact listed by the chip manufacturer
cannot be located or refuses to reclaim the dog or cat, an attempt shall be
made to contact any secondary contacts listed by the chip manufacturer prior to
adoption, transfer, or euthanization. Prior to transferring any stray dog or
cat to another humane shelter or rescue group or euthanization, the dog or cat
shall be scanned again for the presence of a microchip and examined for other
means of identification. If a second scan provides the same identifying
information as the initial intake scan and the owner, agent, or caretaker has
not been located or refuses to reclaim the dog or cat, the animal shelter may
proceed with adoption, transfer, or euthanization.
   (E)   When stray dogs and cats are accepted by an animal shelter and no
owner can be identified, county animal control shall have authority to take
custody of the stray animal. County animal control may waive taking custody of
the stray animal; such waiver shall be in writing. If waiver occurs, the
shelter shall hold the animal tor the period specified in local ordinance prior
to adoption, transfer, or euthanasia. The animal shelter shall allow access to
the public to view the animals housed there. If a dog or cat is identified by
an owner who desires to make redemption of it, the dog or cat shall be
transferred to the local animal control for redemption. If no transfer can
occur, the animal shelter shall proceed pursuant to 225 ILCS 605/3.7. Upon
lapse of the hold period specified in local ordinance and no owner can be
identified, ownership of the animal, by operation of law, transfers to the
shelter that has custody of the animal.
   (G)   No representative of an animal shelter may enter private property and
remove an animal without permission from the property owner and animal owner,
nor can any representative of an animal shelter direct another individual to
enter private property and remove an animal unless that individual is an
approved humane investigator (approved by the department) operating pursuant to
the provisions of the Humane Care for Animals Act.
   (H)   Nothing in this section limits an animal shelter and an animal control
facility who, through mutual agreement, wish to enter into an agreement for
animal control, hoarding, holding, or other services provided that the
agreement requires parties adhere to the provisions of the Animal Control Act,
the Humane Euthanasia in Animal Shelters Act, and the Humane Care for Animals.
Such agreement shall be in writing. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-14: PROHIBITING THE SALE OF DOGS AND CATS AT SWAP MEETS:
   (A)   Sale prohibited. No dog or cat shall be offered for sale, gift or
other transfer of ownership, and no dog or cat shall be sold, given away or
otherwise transferred, on or from any public street, roadway, right-of-way,
flea market or swap meet. A "swap meet" is defined for the purpose of this
section as a place of commercial activity popularly known as a swap meet or
flea market, which is open to the general public and composed of enclosed,
semi-enclosed or outdoor stalls, stands, or spaces rented or leased to persons
on a temporary basis for the purpose of display and sale, barter or exchange of
new or used merchandise.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the sale, gift or other
transfer of ownership of animals at events duly authorized in writing by the
county or that are regulated by other federal or state agencies or departments.
Nor shall this section prohibit the sale, gift or other transfer of ownership
of animals by tax-exempt, non-profit organizations founded for the purpose of
providing humane, sanctuary or shelter for abandoned or unwanted animals.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is punishable by a fine of not
less than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per person and no more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per person. For the purposes of
section, person is defined as the owner, operator or manager of any swap meet
as well as the owner, breeder or peddler of the dogs or cats. Each dog or cat
that is offered for sale, gift or other transfer of ownership shall constitute
a separate violation of this section and shall be impounded by the county
animal control. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-15: RESTRICTING THE SALE OF DOGS AND CATS:
   (A)   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
                            An animal control center or animal shelter,
                            maintained by or under contract with any state,
ANIMAL CARE FACILITY:       county, or municipality, whose mission and practice
                            is, in whole, or significant part, the rescue and
                            placement of animals in permanent homes or rescue
                            organizations.
                            Any not-for-profit organization which has tax-
                            exempt status under section 501(c)(3) of the United
                            States Internal Revenue Code, whose mission and
                            practice is, in whole or in significant part, the
                            rescue and placement of animals in permanent homes.
ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION: This term does not include any entity, which is, or
                            is housed on the premises of, a breeder or broker,
                            obtains dogs from a breeder or broker in exchange
                            for payment or compensation, or resells dogs
                            obtained from a breeder or broker and provides
                            payment or compensation to such breeder or broker.
CAT:                        A member of the species of domestic cat, Felis
                            catus.
DOG:                        A member of the species of domestic dog, Canis
                            familiaris.
                            To sell, offer for sale or adoption, advertise for
OFFER FOR SALE:             the sale of, barter, auction, give away or
                            otherwise dispose of a dog or cat.
                            A retail establishment where dogs and cats are
                            sold, exchanged, bartered or offered for sale as
PET SHOP:                   pet animals to the general public at retail. Such
                            definition shall not include an animal care
                            facility or animal rescue organization, as defined.
 
   (B)   Restrictions on the sale of animals. No pet store shall sell, deliver,
offer for sale, barter, auction, give away, or otherwise transfer or dispose of
cats or dogs. Nothing in this section shall prohibit pet stores from
collaborating with animal care facilities or animal rescue organizations to
offer space for such entities to showcase adoptable dogs and cats. (Ord. O-6-
22-3, 6-20-2022)
5-2-16: RECKLESS DOG OWNER:
   (A)   Definitions:
 
           An individual who has:
              1.   Committed three or more violations of chapter 5-2 relating to dogs within a
           thirty-six (36)-month period;
RECKLESS      2.   Has committed one or more violations of this chapter relating to dogs after
DOG OWNER: having a dog owned by him or her declared to be dangerous or potentially dangerous;
           or
              3.   Has committed one or more violations of this chapter relating to dogs after
           having a dog owned by him or her declared to be vicious.
           In relation to reckless dog owners, means:
              1.   A conviction, including a judicial finding of guilt, for any of the
           offenses under chapter 5-2 relating to dogs;
VIOLATION:    2.   A guilty plea, entered in judicial court to any of the offenses under
           chapter 5-2 relating to dogs;
              3.   Any impoundment of any dog for a violation of chapter 5-2.
           Multiple offenses on the same day at the same time for the same owner will only
           count as one violation. The violations need not involve the same dog.
 
   (B)   Reckless dog owners-Investigation/declaration:
      1.   The animal control administrator shall commence a reckless dog owner
investigation when an animal control officer receives information, supported by
witness statements, photographs, animal control records and/or other evidence
that the dog owner has been found guilty of three violations of chapter 5-2 as
set forth above. The investigation shall commence by issuing a notice of
investigation to the dog owner.
      2.   The notice of investigation of reckless dog owner shall be in
writing and shall be served on the owner in one of the following methods:
         (a)   By certified mail to the owner's last known address; or
         (b)   By personal service attested to under oath by the animal control
officer.
      3.   The notice of investigation shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of owner who is subject to the declaration;
         (b)   Names, descriptions, microchip and rabies registration numbers
of any pets licensed to the owner;
         (c)   Descriptions of the violations which form the basis of the
investigation;
         (d)   A summary of the procedure, requirements for owner if found to
be a reckless owner of dogs, and the potential penalties for violation of the
restrictions;
         (e)   Notice of the hearing date that shall take place at the criminal
justice committee of the Kankakee County board immediately following the
conclusion of regular business at the committee's next regularly scheduled
meeting.
         (f)   The animal control administrator is authorized to take
possession of any dog in the possession of the alleged reckless dog owner
pending the conclusion of said hearing.
   (C)   Hearing procedure-Declaration of reckless dog owner:
      1.   The criminal justice committee shall determine by a preponderance of
the evidence if the owner is a reckless dog owner as defined in this chapter.
Said finding shall be determined by a majority vote of the criminal justice
committee members in attendance providing that there are sufficient members
present for a quorum. The standard of proof shall be by the preponderance of
the evidence.
      2.   A finding of guilt, a guilty plea, or payment of fines, through
judicial proceedings, is prima facie evidence that a violation occurred and no
additional evidence is necessary to prove that violation.
      3.   If the criminal justice committee of the Kankakee County board finds
that the owner is a reckless dog owner, as defined in this chapter, they may:
         (a)   Declare the owner a reckless dog owner;
         (b)   Impose a fine of not less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred dollars ($750.00); and
         (c)   Order that all dogs in the owner's possession be impounded by
animal control.
Upon such a finding by the criminal justice committee of the Kankakee County
board, the owner is prohibited from owning any dog in the county for a period
of thirty-six (36) months. Any dogs impounded under these circumstances may not
be returned to any person residing at the same address as the reckless dog
owner.
      4.   The animal control administrator shall have the authority to
determine the disposition of all dogs impounded from a reckless dog owner
including, without limitation, transfer, adoption, or euthanasia. No
disposition of any dog shall take place until the thirty-five (35)-day period
in which the dog owner may appeal to the circuit court has expired.
      5.   In the event that any provision of this section is in conflict with
a court order issued pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/15-5/15.4, the court order shall
control.
   (D)   Right to appeal: The dog owner shall have the right to appeal any
finding by the filing of an action of administrative review in the Circuit
Court for the Twenty-first Judicial Circuit within thirty-five (35) days of the
finding issued by the criminal justice committee of the Kankakee County board.
   (E)   Impoundment of dogs owned by reckless dog owners:
      1.   Upon a finding by the criminal justice committee of the Kankakee
County board that the individual is a reckless dog owner, the person declared
to be a reckless dog owner shall relinquish all dogs that he or she owns to the
animal shelter or, upon approval of the animal control administrator, make
arrangements for other accommodations for the dogs. The animal control
administrator may order that such dogs be impounded and held at the animal
shelter or a secure veterinary hospital until the disposition of such dogs is
determined, including, without limitation, transfer, adoption, or euthanasia.
The owner shall surrender the dogs to an animal control officer, sheriff's
deputy, or police officer upon the order of such law enforcement official,
however, no disposition of any animal may take place prior to the expiration of
the thirty-five (35) days in which the dog owner may file an appeal of the
administrator's order in the circuit court. Refusal by any person declared to
be a reckless owner to surrender a dog owned by such person to an animal
control officer, sheriff's deputy, or a police officer is an offense that upon
conviction carries a fine of not less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00) and not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   During the investigation, the dogs owned by a person alleged to be a
reckless dog owner may be ordered impounded if the animal control administrator
determines that impoundment is in the interests of public safety or the health
and welfare of the animal. If such dogs are not impounded during the
investigation, the animal control administrator may order the dogs confined.
The owner shall comply with all requirements imposed by the animal control
administrator. Failure to comply with any requirement shall be considered a
violation. It is a separate violation for each dog and each day of non-
compliance.
      3.   In the event that any provision of this section is in conflict with
a court order issued pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/15-5/15.4, the court order shall
control.
   (F)   Possessing, harboring, or owning animal by reckless dog owner: It is
an offense for any person who is a reckless dog owner as defined in chapter 5-
2 to possess, harbor, own, have custody of, or reside in a residence with any
dog in the County of Kankakee while a notice of reckless owner is in effect,
except during the period an appeal of a notice of reckless owner is pending. In
the event that any provision of this section is in conflict with a court order
issued pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/15-5/15.4, the court order shall control.
   (G)   Violations; penalties: Any person found guilty of a violation of
subsection
5-2-11(I) shall pay a fine of not less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). A penalty
under this section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any action taken
under sections 510 ILCS 5/15-5/15.4. (Ord. O-6-22-3, 6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 3
PARADES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Permit Required
5-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any society, band, circus, theatrical organization or
collection of persons to parade or march in the streets of the Village or on
the sidewalks of the Village at any time, day or night, without having first
obtained from the President of the Village, or from the Village Clerk, a permit
in writing for the same. Such permit shall designate in and upon what streets
the parade may pass and the nature and the character of the parade, and the
music to be used in the procession. The official to whom application is made
shall have the power to refuse to issue such permit as he may deem necessary
for the best interest of the Village; but no distinction shall be made between
groups of persons for ethnic reasons, or to any political parties. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 12.2.1)
CHAPTER 4
NOXIOUS PLANTS; WEEDS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Weeds; Nuisance
5-4-2: Height
5-4-3: Barberry Bushes
5-4-4: Removal; Notice
5-4-5: Abatement
5-4-6: Lien
5-4-7: Foreclosure of Lien
5-4-1: WEEDS; NUISANCE:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds
of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
5-4-2: HEIGHT:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, plants or grass, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the Village; and such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
5-4-3: BARBERRY BUSHES:
It shall be a nuisance and unlawful for any person to plant or permit the
growth of the bush of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further
known as berberis vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties within the Village.
5-4-4: REMOVAL; NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the Police Commissioner to serve or cause to be served
a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants
are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this Chapter, and to
demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days.
5-4-5: ABATEMENT:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days after
such notice, the Police Commissioner may proceed to abate such nuisance,
keeping an account of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be
charged to and paid by such owner or occupant.
5-4-6: LIEN:
Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid sixty (60) days after
it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder of
Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the Village claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of the bill for weed cutting shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered.
The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien, for unpaid bills for weed cutting as provided for
in the following Section.
5-4-7: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
Village.
The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which a bill for weed cutting has
remained unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (1975 Code)
gr249   5-5 ()CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-5-1: Curfew Hours
5-5-2: Parents' Responsibility
5-5-1: CURFEW HOURS:
   (A)   Establishment Of Curfew: It shall be unlawful for a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at
least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian or
unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform:
Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Saturday;
Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., Sunday;
Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   (B)   Exemption: No child shall be guilty of this offense if involved in,
going to or coming from an activity involving the exercise of the child's
rights protected under the first amendment to the United States constitution or
article 1, section 2, 4 and 5 of the constitution of the state of Illinois, or
both.
   (C)   Enforcement Action: Before taking any enforcement action under this
section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection (B) of this section is present. (Ord. 10-08-16-1, 8-
16-2010)
5-5-2: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly
permit a person in his custody or control to violate section
5-5-1 of this chapter. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Abandonment of Vehicles
5-6-3: Leaving Vehicles on Street
5-6-4: Notice to Dispose of Vehicles
5-6-5: Impounding
5-6-6: Penalty
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this Chapter:
INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES: The building inspector on routine inspection or upon
receipt of a complaint may investigate a suspected junked motor vehicle or
motor vehicle accessories and record the make, model, style and identification
numbers and its situation.
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES: Any motor vehicle which is partially dismantled or
wrecked and which cannot safely or legally be separated.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled land vehicle which can be used for towing or
transporting people or materials, including but not limited to automobiles,
trucks, buses, motorhomes, motorized campers, motorcycles, motor scooters,
tractors, snowmobiles, dune buggies and other off the road vehicles.
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESSORIES: Any part or parts of any motor vehicle.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL: Whenever the building inspector or any member of his
department finds or is notified that any junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle
accessories have been stored or permitted to remain on any private property
within the Village, the building inspector shall send by certified mail a
notice to the owner of record of such motor vehicle or accessories, if such
owner can be ascertained by the exercise of reasonable diligence, and also to
the owner of the private property, as shown on the tax assessment records of
the Village, on which the same is located to remove the junked motor vehicle or
motor vehicle accessories within thirty (30) days. Such notice shall also
contain the following additional information:
   (A)   Nature of complaint.
   (B)   Description and location of the motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle
accessories.
   (C)   Statement that the motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories will be
removed from the premises no later than thirty (30) days from the date of
notification.
   (D)   Statement that removal from the location specified in the notification
to another location upon which such storage is not permitted is prohibited and
shall subject the person to additional penalties.
   (E)   Statement that if removal is made within the time limits specified,
notification shall be given in writing to the building inspector.
   (F)   Statement of the penalties provided for noncompliance with such
notice.
PERMITTED STORAGE: This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle or motor
vehicle accessories stored within an enclosed building, or on the premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise, in a storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner, or seasonal use vehicles such as
snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters and nonmotorized campers. Such
business enterprises shall include auto junkyards, auto repair and auto body
shops but shall not include automobile service stations or tire, battery and
accessory sales stores.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property not owned by the federal government, state,
county, village school board or other public subdivisions.
PROHIBITED STORAGE: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having
custody of any junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories to store or
permit any such vehicle or accessories to remain on any private property within
the village for a period of more than thirty (30) days after the receipt of a
notice requiring such removal, and it shall be further unlawful for any person
owning any private property in the village to store or to permit to remain any
such vehicles or accessories on his property for more than a like period. Such
storage is declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated or removed and
penalties imposed as provided in this ordinance.
It shall be unlawful for any person, after notification to remove any junked
motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories from any private property has been
given, to move the same to any other private property upon which such storage
is not permitted or onto any public highway or other public property for
purposes of storage.
REMOVAL: The physical relocation of a motor vehicle to an authorized location.
(Ord., 9-19-1994)
5-6-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village and no person shall have
or leave any vehicle at any place within the village for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned. (1974 Code § 6.6.2)
5-6-3: LEAVING VEHICLES ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked
vehicle on any street or highway in the village. (1974 Code § 6.6.3)
5-6-4: NOTICE TO DISPOSE OF VEHICLES:
All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under
their control upon written notice received from the corporate authorities or
from the chief of police or any member of his department designated by him,
commanding such disposition of said inoperable vehicle. (1974 Code § 6.6.5)
5-6-5: IMPOUNDING:
The chief of police or any member of his department, designated by him, is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the village which reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter,
or which is an inoperable vehicle as defined herein. Such vehicle shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-202. (1974 Code § 6.6.6)
5-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (1974 Code § 6.6.7; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1, 11-7-2011)
CHAPTER 7
ILLEGAL USE OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Attempt To Solicit Drugs
5-7-2: Attempt To Solicit From Vehicle; Impoundment
5-7-3: Use Of Vehicle For Solicitation Of Prostitution; Impoundment
5-7-4: Unlawful Firearm In Motor Vehicle; Impoundment
5-7-5: Exceptions
5-7-6: Illegal Operation Of A Motor Vehicle; Impoundment
5-7-7: Hearing Officer
5-7-8: Penalty
5-7-1: ATTEMPT TO SOLICIT DRUGS:
It is unlawful for any person to solicit or to attempt to obtain cannabis, as
defined in the Illinois cannabis control act or a controlled substance as
defined by the Illinois controlled substance act with an intent to possess by
request, contract, agreement, command, or understanding. (Ord. 02-04-15-1, 4-
15-2002, eff. 4-15-2002)
5-7-2: ATTEMPT TO SOLICIT FROM VEHICLE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle which is used in connection with a violation of
section 22-80 or which contains cannabis as defined by the Illinois cannabis
control act or a controlled substance as defined by the Illinois controlled
substance act shall be subject to seizure and impoundment and the owner or
operator of said vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative
penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus any towing and
storage fees, as hereinafter provided.
      1.   This subsection shall not apply: a) if the vehicle used in the
violation was stolen at that time and the theft was reported to the appropriate
police authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was
discovered; or b) if the vehicle is operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle.
      2.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of a vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be in control of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, of the fact of the seizure and of
the vehicle owner's right to request a vehicle impoundment hearing to be
conducted under this section.
      3.   If the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this section
desires to appeal the seizure, said owner must make a request for said hearing
within twenty four (24) hours of the seizure. Said request shall be in writing
and filed with the chief of police or his designee. If an appeal is timely
filed, a hearing officer of the village shall conduct such appeal hearing
within forty eight (48) hours after the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will
not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If after the
hearing, the hearing officer determines there is probable cause to believe that
the vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
hearing officer shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle as
provided in this section, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the
collection department, a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus any applicable towing and storage fees.
      4.   Unless a hearing is held pursuant to subsection (A)3 of this
section, within ten (10) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant
to this section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that
will be conducted, pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be scheduled and
held, unless continued by order of the hearing officer, no later than forty
five (45) days after the vehicle was seized. The hearing shall be conducted by
a hearing officer appointed by the mayor. All interested persons shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If after the hearing, the
hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was
used in connection with a violation of section 30-225, and that none of the
exceptions described in subsection (A)1 or (A)2 of this section applies, the
hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle
civilly liable to the village for an administrative penalty in the amount not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). If the owner of record fails to
appear at the hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor
of the village requiring the payment to the village of an administrative
penalty in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). If the
hearing officer finds that no such violation occurred, the hearing officer
shall order the immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond.
      5.   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this section,
such penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If a cash
bond has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed, the
village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until: a) the penalty, plus
any applicable towing and storage fees, is paid to the village, in which case
possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled
to possess the vehicle, b) the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to
satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law. If the administrative
penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after an
administrative penalty is imposed under subsection (A)4 of this section against
an owner of record who defaults by failing to appear at the hearing, the
vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner
provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases,
if the administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of time at which administrative review of the
hearing officer's determination may be sought, or within thirty (30) days after
an action seeking administrative review has been resolved in favor of the
village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed vehicles under section 4-208 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 . Except
as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lien holder or other
person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle impounded
under this section until the civil penalty and fees applicable under this
section have been paid. However, whenever a person with a lien of record
against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession
of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or she agrees in writing to
refund the village the amount of the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less
any amounts required to pay all lien holders of record, not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the applicable fees.
      6.   For purposes of this section, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is
the record title holder as registered with the secretary of state, state of
Illinois. (Ord. 02-04-15-1, 4-15-2002, eff. 4-15-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-208.
5-7-3: USE OF VEHICLE FOR SOLICITATION OF PROSTITUTION; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   A motor vehicle that is used, with the knowledge of the owner of
record in the commission of prostitution as defined in the criminal code of
1961, soliciting for a prostitute as defined in said code, soliciting for a
juvenile prostitute as defined in said code, shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment under this subsection. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be
liable to the village for a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00), in
addition to fees for the towing an storage of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by
the village or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure
and of the vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary hearing to be
conducted under this section.
   (C)   If the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this section
desires to appeal the seizure, said owner must make a request for said hearing
within twenty four (24) hours from the seizure. Said request shall be in
writing and filed with the chief of police or his designee. If an appeal is
timely filed, the hearing officer of the village shall conduct such appeal
hearing within forty eight (48) hours after the request, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible. If after the hearing, the hearing officer determines there is
probable cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and
impoundment pursuant to this section, the hearing officer shall order the
continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section, unless the
owner of the vehicle posts with the collection department, a cash bond in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus any applicable towing and storage
fees.
   (D)   Unless a hearing is held pursuant to subsection (C) of this section,
within ten (10) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this
section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt requested,
the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that will be
conducted, pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be scheduled and held,
unless continued by order of the hearing officer, no later than thirty (30)
days after the vehicle was seized. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If, after the hearing, the
hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was
used with the knowledge of the owner in the commission of any of the violations
described in subsection (A) of this section, the hearing officer shall enter an
order requiring the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays a
penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus fees for towing and
storage of the vehicle. The penalty and fees shall be a debt due and owing the
city; however, if a cash bond has been posted, the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not knowingly
used in such violation, he or she shall order the return of the vehicle or cash
bond. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever a person
with a lien of record against a vehicle impounded under this section has
commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to
that person if he or she agrees in writing to refund to the village the net
proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts necessary to pay all lien
holders of record, up to the amount of penalties and fees imposed under this
subsection.
   (E)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days after
the expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the village's action under this section, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered against an owner of record who is in default, may be
disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law. As used in this
section, the "owner of record" of a vehicle means the record titleholder.
   (F)   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this section shall be
the same as those charged, pursuant to this code. (Ord. 02-04-15-1, 4-15-2002,
eff. 4-15-2002)
5-7-4: UNLAWFUL FIREARM IN MOTOR VEHICLE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle used in connection with a violation of article 24 of
the Illinois criminal code of 1961 1  or that contains a firearm or ammunition
for which a firearms owner's identification card is required under the Illinois
owner's identification card act 2  and is not presented, shall be liable to the
village for an administrative penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) plus any towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided, in addition
to the fine imposed for violation of any provision of this chapter. Any such
vehicle shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section.
This subsection shall not apply: 1) if the vehicle used in the violation was
stolen at that time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered or
reasonably should have been discovered; or 2) if the vehicle is operating as a
common carrier and the violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in
control of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by
the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is towed, the
police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the owner of the
vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation, of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's
right to request a vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted under this
section.
   (C)   If the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this section
desires to appeal the seizure, said owner must make a request for said hearing
within twenty four (24) hours of the seizure. Said request shall be in writing
and filed with the chief of police or his designee. If an appeal is timely
filed, a hearing officer of the village shall conduct such appeal hearing
within forty eight (48) hours after the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays
or holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will
not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If, after
the hearing, the hearing officer determines there is probable cause to believe
that the vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
section, the hearing officer shall order the continued impoundment of the
vehicle as provided in this section, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with
the collection department, a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus any applicable towing and storage fees. Unless a hearing has
been held pursuant to this subsection, within ten (10) days after a vehicle is
seized and impounded pursuant to this section, the village shall notify by
certified mail, return receipt requested, the owner of record of the date, time
and location of a hearing that will be conducted by order of the hearing
officer, no later than forty five (45) days after the vehicle was seized. The
hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer appointed by the mayor. All
interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
hearing. If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of evidence none of the exceptions described herein applies, the
hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle
civilly liable to the village for an administrative penalty in an amount not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). If the owner of record fails to appear
at the hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the
village requiring the payment to the village of an administrative penalty in an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). If the hearing officer
finds that no such violation occurred, the hearing officer shall order the
immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond.
   (D)   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this section, such
penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If a cash bond
has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed, the
village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until: 1) the penalty, plus
any applicable towing and storage fees, is paid to the village, in which case
possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled
to possess the vehicle, or 2) the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to
satisfy a judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law. If the administrative
penalty is imposed under this subsection against an owner of record who
defaults by failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed
unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative
penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of time at which administrative review of the hearing officer's
determination may be sought, or within thirty (30) days after an action seeking
administrative review has been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is
applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in
the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicle under
section 4-208 of the Illinois motor vehicle code 1 . Except as otherwise
specifically provided by law, no owner, lien holder or other person shall be
legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle impounded under this section
until the civil penalty and fees applicable under this section have been paid.
However, whenever a person with a lien or record against an impounded vehicle
has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given
to that person if he or she agrees in writing to refund to the village the
amount of the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required
to pay all lienholders of record, up to five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus
the applicable fees.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is
the record title holder as registered with the office of the secretary of
state, state of Illinois. (Ord. 02-04-15-1, 4-15-2002, eff. 4-15-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.
2 2. 430 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq.
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-208.
5-7-5: EXCEPTIONS:
These provisions shall not apply to or affect any of the following:
   (A)   Peace officers or any person summoned by any such officers to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while he is actually engaged in
assisting such officer;
   (B)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries, jails
and other such institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty or commuting
between their homes and places of employment;
   (C)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United States
or the Illinois national guard or the reserved officers training corps, while
in the performance of their official duty;
   (D)   Special agents employed by a railroad to perform police functions, or
employees of a detective agency, watchman-guard or patrolman agency, licensed
by the state of Illinois, while actually engaged in the performance of the
duties of their employment or commuting between their homes and places of
employment;
   (E)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois crime investigating
commission authorized by the commission to carry weapons, while on duty in the
course of any investigation for the commission;
   (F)   Manufacture or transportation of weapons which are not immediately
accessible to any person, sale of weapons to persons authorized under law to
possess them;
   (G)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private detectives
or private alarm contractors or employed by an agency certified by the Illinois
department of professional regulation who have documentation on their person,
if their duties include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of a
private detective, private alarm and private security act of 1983 1 , while
actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment;
   (H)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial operation
as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and private property
related to such commercial or industrial operation, while actually engaged in
the performance of his or her duty or traveling between sites or properties
belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member of a
security force of at least five (5) persons registered with the Illinois
department of professional regulation; provided that such security guard has
successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
Illinois department of professional regulation, consisting of not less than
forty (40) hours of training that includes the theory of law enforcement,
liability for acts and the handling of weapons;
   (I)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois legislative investigating
commission authorized by the commission to carry the weapons while on duty in
the course of any investigation for the commission;
   (J)   Persons employed by a financial institution for the protection of
other employees and property related to such financial institution, while
actually engaged in the performance of their duties, commuting between their
homes and places of employment, or traveling between sites or properties owned
by such financial institution, provided that any person so employed has
successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
Illinois department of professional regulation, consisting of not less than
forty (40) hours of training which includes theory of law enforcement,
liability for acts and the handling of weapons;
   (K)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored car,
while actually engaged in the performance of his duties;
   (L)   Investigators of the office of the state's attorney's appellate
prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the office of the state's
attorney's appellate prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to the state's
attorney's appellate prosecutor's act 2 ;
   (M)   Special investigators appointed by a state's attorney under section 3-
9005 of the county's code 1 ;
   (N)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, while such members are using their firearms on such target ranges;
   (O)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading, with
the special permission of the governor;
   (P)   Licensed hunters or fishermen while engaged in hunting or fishing;
   (Q)   Transportation of weapons broken down in a nonfunctioning state; or
   (R)   Such other exceptions as approved by the Illinois general assembly.
(Ord. 02-04-15-1, 4-15-2002, eff. 4-15-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 445/1 et seq.
2 2. 725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/3-9005.
5-7-6: ILLEGAL OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person who is under the
influence of alcohol or drugs, or whose driver's license is suspended or
revoked, or whose license plates are suspended, or against whom a warrant has
been issued by a circuit court for failing to appear to answer charges that the
person was operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or
drugs or for operating a motor vehicle while that person's license was
suspended or revoked, or operating a motor vehicle in the commission of any
felony or misdemeanor offense, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by
the village of Grant Park and its owner shall be liable to the village for an
administrative penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus any
towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided.
      1.   This section shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at that time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered.
      2.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle was
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle
at the time of the alleged violation, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner's right to request a vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted
under this section.
      3.   If the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this section
desires to appeal the seizure, said owner must make a request for said hearing
within twenty four (24) hours of the seizure. Said request shall be in writing
and filed with the chief of police or his designee. If an appeal is timely
filed, a hearing officer of the village shall conduct such appeal hearing
within forty eight (48) hours after the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will
not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If, after
the hearing, the hearing officer determines there is probable cause to believe
that the vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
section, the hearing officer shall order the continued impoundment of the
vehicle, as provided in this section, unless the owner of the vehicle posts
with the collection department, a cash bond in the amount of five hundred
dollars ($500.00), plus any applicable towing and storage fees.
      4.   Unless a hearing is held pursuant to subsection (A)3 of this
section, within ten (10) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant
to this section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that
will be conducted, pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be scheduled and
held, unless continued by order of the hearing officer, no later than forty
five (45) days after the vehicle was seized. The hearing shall be conducted by
a hearing officer appointed by the mayor. All interested persons shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If, after the hearing, the
hearing officer determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle
was used in connection with a violation of this section and that none of the
exceptions described in subsection (A)1 of this section applies, the hearing
officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly
liable to the village for an administrative penalty in the amount not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00). If the owner of record fails to appear at the
hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the
village requiring the payment to the village of an administrative penalty in an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). If the hearing officer
finds that no such violation occurred, the hearing officer shall order the
immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond.
      5.   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this section,
such penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If a cash
bond has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed, the
village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until: a) the penalty, plus
any applicable towing and storage fees, are paid to the village, in which case
possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled
to possess the vehicle; or b) the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to
satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law. If the administrative
penalty is imposed under subsection (A)4 of this section against an owner of
record who defaults by failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be
deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative
penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of time at which administrative review of the hearing officer's
determination may be sought, or within thirty (30) days after an action seeking
administrative review has been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is
applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in
the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under
section 4-208 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 .
Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lienholder or other
person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle impounded
under this section until the civil penalty and fees applicable under this
section have been paid. However, whenever a person with a lien of record
against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession
of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or she agrees in writing to
refund to the village the amount of the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale,
less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of record, not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the applicable fees.
      6.   For purposes of this section, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is
the record titleholder as registered with the secretary of state for the state
of Illinois.
      7.   For purposes of this section, the term "revoked" or "suspended" when
used in the context of driving privileges or driver's licenses, shall have the
same meaning as contained in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-100 et seq.
      8.   For purposes of this section, the term "driving under the influence
of alcohol or drugs" shall have the same meaning as contained in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-501 et seq. (Ord. O-3-16-2, 3-21-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-208.
5-7-7: HEARING OFFICER:
Whenever any reference to any hearing officer is used herein, those hearing
officers are appointed for purposes for the administrative adjudication system
and pursuant to said applicable ordinance, shall be and are hereby deemed to be
authorized to act as hearing officers pursuant to this chapter. In addition,
any duly appointed village attorney may act as a hearing officer in the event
of the unavailability of the hearing officer described herein. (Ord. 02-04-15-
1, 4-15-2002, eff. 4-15-2002)
5-7-8: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for any one offense and upon conviction, any weapon seized
shall be confiscated by the village. (Ord. 02-04-15-1, 4-15-2002, eff. 4-15-
2002)
TITLE 6
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Nuisances   1
Garbage, Rubbish   2
Septic Tank, Cesspool Cleaning   3
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
6-1-1-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
6-1-1-2: Nuisance Defined, Generally
6-1-1-3: Nuisances Not Enumerated Herein
6-1-1-4: Enumeration Not Exclusive
6-1-1-5: Duty Of Village Officer To Investigate; Power Of Entry
6-1-1-6: Notice To Proper Officials
ARTICLE II.
CERTAIN NUISANCES DECLARED
6-1-2-1: Foul Odors, Filth
6-1-2-2: Rubbish, Dry Grass
6-1-2-3: Weeds
6-1-2-4: Explosives
6-1-2-5: Unsafe Buildings
6-1-2-6: Abandoned Refrigerators
6-1-2-7: Dust, Cinders
6-1-2-8: Scaffolding, Ladders
6-1-2-9: Animals
6-1-2-10: Obstruct, Injure Natural Drainage
6-1-2-11: Fence, Gate Obstructing Public Travel
6-1-2-12: Sanitary Or Waste Sewer Connections
ARTICLE III.
ABATEMENT
6-1-3-1: Notice To Abate Nuisance
6-1-3-2: Abatement Of Nuisances; Village To Abate; Time Limits
6-1-3-3: Failure To Abate, Separate And Recurring Offense
6-1-3-4: Failure To Abate; Abatement By Village
6-1-3-5: Summary Abatement By Village When Emergency Or On Public Property
6-1-3-6: Costs Of Abatement; Debt Of Owner
ARTICLE IV.
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
6-1-4-1: Violation
6-1-4-2: Definitions
6-1-4-3: Remedy
6-1-4-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
6-1-4-5: Procedure
6-1-4-6: Commencement Of Action; Burden Of Proof
6-1-4-7: Emergency Closing Procedures
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
6-1-1-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the village. (1975 Code)
6-1-1-2: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or continue
for such length of time as to:
   (A)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   (B)   In any way render the public insecure of life or property; or
   (C)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   (D)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place;
is hereby declared a nuisance. (1975 Code)
6-1-1-3: NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED HEREIN:
Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of this code
or ordinances of the village shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (1975 Code)
6-1-1-4: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are in
addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this code or ordinances of the
village. (1975 Code)
6-1-1-5: DUTY OF VILLAGE OFFICER TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY:
   (A)   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   (B)   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the Village to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists.
6-1-1-6: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate Village officials whose functions include the abatement
of such nuisances.
ARTICLE II.   CERTAIN NUISANCES DECLARED
6-1-2-1: FOUL ODORS, FILTH:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the Village and its residents for any person:
   (A)   Businesses: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or
   (B)   Animals: To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy
manner or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals from which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors; or
   (C)   Animal Carcasses: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any animal carcass of any offal, filth, excretion or
other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to
become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (D)   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is,
or is likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (E)   Cellars, Vaults, Privies: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any
cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or (1975 Code)
   (F)   Stagnant Water: Any lot of ground or premises within the Village upon
which stagnant water may be standing so as to become or is likely to become
foul, putrid or offensive or detrimental to the health and comfort of any
person or family residing in the Village, or in the vicinity of such ground or
premises, is hereby declared a nuisance. Any owner or agent of such lot of
ground, or any person in possession or control of such lot or premises who
shall fail or neglect to abate such nuisance, after notice as specified in
Section
 6-1-3-1 hereof, shall be deemed guilty of having a nuisance under the terms of
this Chapter and subject to penalty. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.2.4)
   (G)   Stables and Pigsties: To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain, anywhere within the Village any stable or pigsty; or
   (H)   Foul or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person.
6-1-2-2: RUBBISH, DRY GRASS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Rubbish, Rags: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oily rags,
rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a
fire hazard; or
   (B)   Dry Grass, Vegetation: The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth
upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like
substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard.
6-1-2-3: WEEDS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Jimson, Burdock: Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cocklebur, or other weeds of a like kind, to grow in any lot or tract of land
in the Village.
   (B)   Height: Any weeds, grass or plants other than trees, buses, flowers,
vegetables or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding eight
inches (8") anywhere in the Village.
   (C)   Barberry Bushes: Growth of the bush of the tall, common or European
Barberry, further known as Berberis Vulgaris or its horticultural varieties,
within the Village.
6-1-2-4: EXPLOSIVES:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the deposit, accumulation, storage or presence,
within one hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or
business of any powder magazine, nitroglycerine, dynamite or other explosive
substance of any kind.
6-1-2-5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence of any unsafe, dilapidated or otherwise
insecure building, wall, stack, chimney, cornice, sign, awning or other like
structure of any kind which, from manner of construction, age, condition or
other circumstances, is or may become a menace to the safety of persons or
property.
The term "unsafe building" as used herein is hereby defined to mean and include
a) any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which is dangerous to
the public health because of its construction or condition, or which may cause
or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of the occupants
of it or of neighboring structures; b) any building, shed, fence or other man-
made structure which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair or any other cause, is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; c) any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure
which, by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any
other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse
or fall of any part of such a structure; d) any building, shed, fence or other
man-made structure which, because of its condition or because of lack of doors
or windows is available to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons
who are not lawful occupants of such structure.
If any building shall be found in a dangerous and unsafe condition, the
President or any official or employee designated by the Village Board shall
notify, in writing, the owner or owners thereof, directing said owner or owners
to put such building in a safe condition or to demolish it. Where, upon
diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any such
building shall not be ascertainable, such notice shall be mailed to the person
or persons in whose name such real estate was last assessed.
If, after fifteen (15) days subsequent to the giving of such notice, said owner
or owners fail to put such building in a safe condition or to demolish it, the
President or any official or employee designated by the Village Board shall so
notify the Village Board requesting the Board to direct the Village Attorney to
apply on behalf of the Village to the Circuit Court of Kankakee County for an
order authorizing the Village to demolish or repair, or to cause the demolition
or repair of said building.
The cost of such demolition or repair shall be recoverable from the owner or
owners of such real estate, and shall be a lien thereon as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1, as amended.
6-1-2-6: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible to
children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep
freeze or other airtight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or other
covers have not been removed or which cannot easily be opened by a child, by
means of pushing only, from the inside thereof.
6-1-2-7: DUST, CINDERS:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise to the detriment of any person or property.
   (B)   Every person engaged in hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes,
earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving,
rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the
like, shall make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest and
prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials
used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the
supervision and approval of the Director of Public Works.
6-1-2-8: SCAFFOLDING, LADDERS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person:
   (A)   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
   (B)   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered. (1975 Code)
6-1-2-9: ANIMALS:
   (A)   Prohibited: No person shall cause to be kept or keep, within the
limits of the Village, and hold or raise the same, any animal other than what
is normally recognized as a house pet, nor shall any livestock, fowl, farm
animals or wild creatures be kept for any time within the Village. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 6.2.2)
   (B)   Cattle Pens, Stock Yards: Any cattle pens, stock yards, chutes and
other places within the Village used for shipping, loading or unloading cattle,
sheep or hogs, which may be detrimental or obnoxious to the health and comfort
of persons residing or doing business in the neighborhood of the same, by
reason of the filthy condition thereof, are hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and any person having charge or control of such a place shall be held guilty of
a nuisance under the terms of this Chapter and will be subject to the fines of
this Chapter. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.2.6)
   (C)   Dead Animals: If any person shall allow any pet belonging to him, or
in his charge, coming to its death by disease or otherwise, to lie in or upon
any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or other ground, public or private, in the
Village, he shall be subject to penalty hereunder for maintaining a nuisance.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.2.7)
6-1-2-10: OBSTRUCT, INJURE NATURAL DRAINAGE:
Any person who shall obstruct, fill up or change the natural drainage in the
Village, without first obtaining the consent of the Board of Trustees, shall be
liable to a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each
day that such person shall continue obstruction or change after being notified
by the Street Commissioner of the Village, or any other officer of the Village,
to discontinue such obstruction or change shall result in a five hundred dollar
($500.00) fee and shall be deemed to be a separate offense under the law.
(Ord., 9-19-94)
6-1-2-11: FENCE, GATE OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC TRAVEL:
Any gate found open and extended upon any sidewalk or into any street, avenue
or alley so as to interfere with the public travel, or be dangerous to persons
or property, and any fence that is put upon any property that extends to a
height that makes it impossible for any person walking or driving to see into
the walkway or street upon which persons will travel, and also any shrubbery or
live hedge type growth that does the same, or in both cases above if the
construction or growth is deemed to be dangerous to persons or property, will
not be allowed. All gates opening upon any public place in the sidewalk shall
be so constructed and hung that no part of such gate shall swing over, upon or
above any part of the sidewalk, unless the same shall be so constructed and
hung as to be self-shutting. Any person being the owner or agent of such
construction or gate or growth will remove the same or make it otherwise safe
according to this Section or such person shall be deemed guilty of maintaining
a nuisance and subject to the fines under the terms of this Chapter. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 6.2.8; amd. R.O. 1974, Sec. 13.1.8)
6-1-2-12: SANITARY OR WASTE SEWER CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or institution, public
or private, to connect or cause to be connected, any drain carrying, or to
carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or
any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to any open ditch,
drain, or drainage structure installed solely for street or highway drainage
purposes in the Village of Grant Park or to connect same into the existing
storm or existing field tile system within the Municipal boundary.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating this ordinance shall be fined not
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a
violation continues or exists. (Ord., 9-19-1994)
 
ARTICLE III.   ABATEMENT
6-1-3-1: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   (A)   Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or any police
or fire officer, determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or
premises, except as otherwise provided herein, the proper village official
shall cause a written notice to be served personally upon the owner or, if the
owner cannot be found, upon the occupant or person in control of the property
or premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance, and shall
cause a copy of said notice to be conspicuously posted within or upon such
property or premises.
   (B)   Such notice shall fairly appraise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided
therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state that, if
said nuisance is abated by the village, liability for necessary expenses so
incurred shall accrue as provided for in section
6-1-3-6 of this chapter. (1975 Code)
6-1-3-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; VILLAGE TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS:
It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the village
to discontinue and abate such nuisance within forty eight (48) hours or such
other time period as may be specified therein, from the time he receives
written notice thereof. (1975 Code)
6-1-3-3: FAILURE TO ABATE, SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to neglect,
refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after expiration of
the forty eight (48) hour or other specified time period provided by notice
thereof; and each twenty four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which
such nuisance continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense. (1975
Code)
6-1-3-4: FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in control
of premises or property affected within the time provided by notice, the proper
village officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance. (1975
Code)
6-1-3-5: SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE WHEN EMERGENCY OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Whenever any nuisance: a) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to public health or safety, or b) exists on public property,
the proper village officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any forty eight (48) hour or
other time period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor;
provided, however, that in situation a) above, such officer shall have first
applied for and obtained the written permission of the president for such
summary abatement. (1975 Code)
6-1-3-6: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNER:
   (A)   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the village
pursuant to the provisions of sections
6-1-3-4 and
6-1-3-5 of this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the village by the owner,
lessee or person in control of premises upon which such nuisance existed;
provided, that where specifically provided in this code or by statute, such
costs and expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate or personal
property affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax
liens.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the village attorney to enforce by civil
action any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection (A) of this
section. (1975 Code)
 
ARTICLE IV.   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
6-1-4-1: VIOLATION:
This code shall be amended to provide the following:
   (A)   Any certain property within the village of Grant Park which becomes a
chronic nuisance property is in violation of this article and is subject to its
remedies.
   (B)   Any person in charge who permits property under his or her ownership
or control to be a public nuisance property shall be in violation of this
article and subject to its remedies. (Ord. 02-04-15-2, 4-15-2002)
6-1-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which three (3) or more of the
behaviors listed below have occurred during any sixty (60) day period, as a
result of any three (3) separate factual events that have been independently
investigated by any law enforcement agency:
   (A)   Disorderly conduct as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-
1.
   (B)   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-01 et seq.
   (C)   Mob action as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1.
   (D)   Discharge of a firearm as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 and 5/24-1.5.
   (E)   Gambling as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.
   (F)   Possession, manufacture or delivery of controlled substances as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.
   (G)   Assault or battery or any related offense as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.
   (H)   Sexual abuse or related offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-15 et seq.
   (I)   Public indecency as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-9.
   (J)   Prostitution as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 et
seq.
   (K)   Criminal damage to property as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq.
   (L)   Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/2 et seq.
   (M)   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. Owner includes, but it is not limited to: a) a
mortgagee in possession in whom is vested: 1) all or part of the legal title to
the property; or 2) all or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to
the present use and enjoyment of the premises; or b) an occupant who can
control what occurs on the property.
PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly ascent or agree to the doing of an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership or corporation capable of
owning or using property in the village of Grant Park.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, but not limited to, an owner, occupant of property under
his or her domain, ownership or control.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land in that which is affixed,
incidental or pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not. (Ord. 02-04-15-2, 4-15-2002)
6-1-4-3: REMEDY:
   (A)   In the event a court determines property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than thirty (30) days, but not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or the court may employ any other
remedy deemed by it to be appropriate to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   In addition to the remedy provided in subsection (A) of this section,
the court may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the
amount of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, payable to the village
of Grant Park, for each day the owner had actual knowledge that the property
was a public nuisance property and permitted the property to remain public
nuisance property.
   (C)   In determining what remedy or remedies shall employ, the court may
consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   The disturbance of neighbors.
      2.   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises.
      3.   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public. (Ord. 02-04-15-2, 4-15-
2002)
6-1-4-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The village attorney of the village of Grant Park or the state's attorney of
Kankakee County may commence an action to abate public nuisance as described
above. Upon being satisfied by affidavits or other sworn evidence that an
alleged public nuisance exists, the court may without notice or bond enter a
temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant
from maintaining such nuisance and may enter an order restraining any defendant
from removing or interfering with all property used in connection with the
public nuisance. (Ord. 02-4-15-2, 4-15-2002)
6-1-4-5: PROCEDURE:
When the chief of police of the village of Grant Park receives two (2) or more
police reports documenting the occurrence of nuisance activity on or within a
property, the chief of police shall independently review such reports to
determine whether they describe criminal acts. Upon such findings, the chief
may:
   (A)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property is in danger
of becoming a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
      2.   A statement that the chief of police has information that the
property may be chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist, or that have occurred. The chief of police
shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a course of action
that the chief of police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise
to the violation.
      3.   Demand that the person in charge respond to the chief of police
within ten (10) days to discuss the nuisance activities.
   (B)   After complying with the notification procedures described herein when
the chief of police receives a police report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within a property and determines that the
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the chief of police shall:
      1.   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property has been
determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
         (b)   A statement that the chief of police has determined the property
to be chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to his/her findings.
         (c)   Demand that the person in charge respond within ten (10) days to
the chief of police and propose a course of action that the chief of police
agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation.
         (d)   Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge at
the address of the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property, or such
other place which is likely to give the person in charge notice of the
determination by the chief of police.
         (e)   A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at such
address as shown on the tax rolls of the county in which the property is
located, and/or the occupant, at the address of the property, if these persons
are different than the person in charge, and shall be made either personally or
by first class mail, postage prepaid.
         (f)   A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property after
ten (10) days has elapsed from the service of mailing of the notice to the
person in charge and the person in charge has not contacted the chief of
police.
         (g)   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property
may be a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this chapter.
      2.   If after the notification, but prior to the commencement of legal
proceedings by the village pursuant to this article, a person in charge
stipulates with the chief of police that the person in charge will pursue a
course of action the parties agree will abate the nuisance activities giving
rise to the violation, the chief of police may agree to postpone legal
proceedings for a period of not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30)
days, except in the case of a nuisance activity under section 3(b)(7) where a
search warrant was executed at the property. If the agreed course of action
does not result in the abatement of the nuisance activity or if no agreement
concerning abatement is reached within thirty (30) days, the chief of police
shall request authorization for the village attorney to commence a legal
proceeding to abate the nuisance.
      3.   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
chief of police shall send copies of the notice, as well as, any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings to the village attorney.
   (C)   When a person in charge makes a response to the chief of police as
required above, any conduct or statements made in connection with the
furnishing of that response shall not constitute an admission that any nuisance
activities have or are occurring. This subsection does not require the
exclusion of any evidence which is otherwise admissible or offered for any
other purpose. (Ord. 02-04-15-2, 4-15-2002)
6-1-4-6: COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; BURDEN OF PROOF:
   (A)   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the
village shall have the initial burden of showing by preponderance of the
evidence that the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   (B)   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property at the time in question could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that the property had
become a public nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading of the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   (C)   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors if they need be found appropriate,
and shall cite those found applicable:
      1.   The actions or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the property.
      2.   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous.
      3.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem.
      4.   The cooperation of the person in charge with the village.
      5.   The cost of the village investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the condition. (Ord. 02-04-15-2, 4-15-2002)
6-1-4-7: EMERGENCY CLOSING PROCEDURES:
   (A)   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the village may apply to the court for
such interim relief, as is deemed by the chief of police to be appropriate. In
such an event, the notification provision set forth in section
6-1-4-5 of this article need not be complied with; however, the village shall
make a diligent effort to notify the person in charge prior to a court hearing.
   (B)   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a "chronic
nuisance property" as defined in this article, the court may order the remedy
set out above. In addition, in the event that it also finds the person in
charge had knowledge of activities or conditions of the property constituting
or violating this article and permitted the activities to occur, the court may
assess a civil fine as provided above.
   (C)   The court may authorize the village of Grant Park to physically secure
the property against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do so
within the time specified by the court. In the event that the village is
authorized to secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the village
to effect a closure shall be made and assessed as a lien against the property.
If used herein, "costs" mean those costs actually incurred by the village for
the physical securing of the property as well as tenant relocation costs
   (D)   The village of Grant Park department of public works effecting the
closure shall prepare a statement of cost and the village of Grant Park shall
thereafter submit said statement to the court for its review. If no objection
of the statement is made within the period described by the court, a lien in
said amount may be recorded against said property.
   (E)   Any person who is assessed the cost of closure and/or civil penalty by
the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof by the village.
   (F)   A tenant is entitled to their reasonable relocation costs, as those
are determined by the court if, without actual notice, the tenant moved into
the property after either:
      1.   The owner or tenant received notice of an action brought pursuant to
this section.
      2.   Unknown owner or other agent received notice of an action brought
pursuant to this section.
   (G)   Any person who is assessed with costs of closure and/or civil penalty
by the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the village.
(Ord. 02-04-15-2, 4-15-2002)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE, RUBBISH
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Unlawful Deposits
6-2-4: Burning
6-2-5: Collection by Scavenger
6-2-6: Approval Required; Hauling Garbage
6-2-7: Garbage Receptacles; Regulations
6-2-8: Loading Area Clearance
6-2-9: Disturbing Contents
6-2-10: Contract for Collection, Disposal
6-2-11: Supervise Collection, Disposal
6-2-12: Garbage Grinders, Incinerators
6-2-13: Billing
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and cited as the "Garbage Ordinance." (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 6.7.22)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: Any public or private way, other than a street, giving access to the
rear of lots or buildings.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building or portion thereof containing two (2) or more
dwelling units.
COLLECTION UNIT: One box or carton empty or filled with rubbish. The term shall
also apply to rubbish in general when such materials are disassembled, broken
or cut up and placed in securely tied bundles. All collection units shall be
securely tied by the occupant and shall be of a size that the longest dimension
thereof shall not exceed three feet (3') and provided further that the total
weight of any single unit shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds. The term shall
also include water tanks up to and including thirty (30) gallons capacity.
GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal, fruit, food and vegetable waste from the
preparation, processing, cooking, consumption, storage or handling of animal
meats, fish, fowl, fruit and vegetables other than those wastes described in
the definition of rubbish. "Garbage" shall also mean small dead animals
weighing not over fifteen (15) pounds and waste from restaurants, cafeterias
and diners.
GARBAGE CAN: A round, water tight, sheet metal or comparable material, raised
bottom container not exceeding thirty three (33) gallons in capacity, weighing,
without cover, not over twenty six (26) pounds when empty, fitted with two (2)
sturdy handles, one on each side, and a tight cover equipped with a handle. The
term shall also apply to other containers which are water and vermin proof when
approved by the Village Board.
GARBAGE DISPOSAL SITE: The area owned or leased or used by the contractor
scavenger for the disposal of garbage, rubbish and trade waste collected in the
Village. This site shall not be within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the
Village limits.
RESIDENCE: A building or portion thereof containing no more than one dwelling
unit.
RUBBISH: Discarded nonrotting waste matter including, but not limited to,
ashes, yard trimmings, household furnishings, paper, boxes, bottles, other
containers or rags, earth, sand, building materials, automobiles or large parts
of cars and metal.
STREET: A public or private way, other than an alley used for public travel.
TRADE WASTE: Any waste materials from factories, processing plants,
manufacturing plants, commercial establishments, service stations or garages.
VILLAGE CONTRACTOR SCAVENGER: The one contracting with the Village to collect
and dispose of garbage, rubbish and trade waste as herein described, or
authorized representatives of such collector. (1974 Code § 6.7.5; amd. Ord., 9-
19-1994)
6-2-3: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
It is unlawful to deposit, throw or place any "garbage", "rubbish", refuse or
"trade waste" as herein defined on any property, public or private, or in any
alley, street or public place, except in garbage cans or in collection units,
as hereinafter described, placed on private property or on the street or alley.
Such cans shall be kept tightly covered and covers shall not be removed except
when necessary. (1974 Code § 6.7.1)
6-2-4: BURNING:
   (A)   Permissible Burning:
Fireplaces.
Recreational wood burners.
Residential campfires.
Wood burning stoves.
   (B)   Prohibited: It shall be found unlawful to burn any garbage or refuse
or to burn any other combustible materials of any source or nature within the
Village limits at any time. Burning of leaves, grass and compost is prohibited.
No person shall burn any leaves, grass or compost within the Village at any
time. (Ord. 11-04-04-1, 4-4-2011)
   (C)   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be fined as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 11-04-04-1, 4-4-2011; amd. Ord. 11-11-07-1, 11-7-
2011)
6-2-5: COLLECTION BY SCAVENGER:
All "garbage", "rubbish" and "trade waste", as herein defined, which
accumulates in the Village, shall be collected by the Village contractor
scavenger from all premises public and private. (1974 Code § 6.7.3)
6-2-6: APPROVAL REQUIRED; HAULING GARBAGE:
It shall be unlawful for anyone except the Village contractor scavenger to haul
garbage in the Village, except with the prior and specific approval of the
Village Board. (1974 Code § 6.7.4)
6-2-7: GARBAGE RECEPTACLES; REGULATIONS:
   (A)   All premises, public and private, must have and use a sufficient
number of garbage cans to hold all their garbage and ashes.
   (B)   No garbage shall be placed in boxes or collection units. Dumpsters or
mobile garbage bins designed to be brought and/or taken away by a special truck
are prohibited upon all premises zoned residential, including single-family,
multi-family and/or apartment residence buildings. This shall not prohibit
their use when previously approved by the Village Board upon the issuance of a
permit for special purposes limited to a defined timeframe, including but not
limited to construction, renovation, moving, or other related special projects.
   (C)   No hot ashes shall be placed in a garbage can.
   (D)   All garbage cans shall be kept in good condition for garbage
collection and handling. No garbage can which leaks or has jagged holes or
edges shall be used.
   (E)   No garbage can, when filled, shall weigh more than fifty (50) pounds,
and it shall be so packed that the contents thereof will dump out readily when
the can is inverted.
   (F)   All garbage cans and collection units shall be placed by the occupant
in convenient, accessible locations upon the ground level or ground floor as
near as possible to the approximate rear of the building, or near the alley or
such other locations as may be approved by the Village Board. For those
premises that have no alley, the material shall be placed in the street
directly in front of the property concerned, but it shall not be placed there
until a reasonable time before collection and removed within a reasonable time
after collection. (Ord. O-10-16-2, 10-10-2016)
6-2-8: LOADING AREA CLEARANCE:
All walks, paths and driveways to the place of loading shall have an overhead
clearance of not less than eight feet (8'). (1974 Code § 6.7.12)
6-2-9: DISTURBING CONTENTS:
It shall be unlawful, except as authorized by the occupant of the premises, or
the Village, to deposit any material into any garbage can or to remove the
cover therefrom or to remove or disturb the contents thereof except for
collection. (1974 Code § 6.7.13)
6-2-10: CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION, DISPOSAL:
The Village Board is hereby authorized and directed to call for bids for the
collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and trade waste in accordance with
the specifications and forms of the contract. The Village Board is authorized
to award a contract to the lowest and best bidder or to reject any or all bids,
and to execute the same for the Village. (1974 Code § 6.7.14; amd. 1975 Code)
6-2-11: SUPERVISE COLLECTION, DISPOSAL:
The Village Public Works Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
supervise and manage the collection and disposal of all wastes produced in the
Village and shall have the general charge of and supervision over the handling
and administration and enforcement of this chapter. (1974 Code § 6.7.15)
6-2-12: GARBAGE GRINDERS, INCINERATORS:
Approved garbage grinders and approved incinerators are permissible, provided
that they are kept in good repair. (1974 Code § 6.7.16)
6-2-13: BILLING:
All users of this service shall be billed on a monthly basis by the Village in
conjunction with water and sewer billing. The Village Board may collect up to
ten percent (10%) in excess of the actual billing to allow for administration
and collection of defaults. (1974 Code § 6.7.17)
CHAPTER 3
SEPTIC TANK, CESSPOOL CLEANING
SECTION:
6-3-1: License Required
6-3-2: Application; Fee
6-3-3: Vehicle Regulations
6-3-4: Revocation
6-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use in the Village of any motor
vehicle for the carrying or storage of waste matter removed from any cesspool,
private sewage disposal plant, septic tank or outhouse unless a license for
such vehicle is first secured, under the license laws of the State of Illinois.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.3.1)
6-3-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
Application for such license shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall
recite the name and address of the owner of such vehicle, the name or names of
the person or persons who shall operate said vehicle, the capacity and make of
said vehicle and the equipment thereon and shall be accompanied with a policy
of insurance insuring payment by the licensee of damages to persons and
property in a sum not less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). The
application shall further be accompanied by a good and sufficient surety bond
in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to insure the compliance of the
licensee with the regulations stated herein. The annual fee for such license
shall be forty dollars ($40.00) for each vehicle and shall be issued for one
year. Such fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk who shall turn them over to
the Village Treasurer, forthwith. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.3.3)
6-3-3: VEHICLE REGULATIONS:
Every owner or operator of such licensed vehicle used as set forth in Section
6-3-1 herein, shall only operate said motor vehicle within the Village between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. for the
purpose of removing waste from septic tanks, cesspools and outhouses and shall
not park or allow said vehicle to stand in the business district or residential
district of the Village for more than one hour during said hours unless being
used at said time for the removal of said waste matter. No owner or operator of
such vehicle, whether licensed or not, shall allow said vehicle to remain
within the corporate limits of the Village between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., nor park said vehicle within one-half (1/
2) mile of the Village limits. The owner or operator of any such vehicle used
for the purpose aforesaid shall in no event dispose of any waste or other
debris removed from any septic tank, cesspool or outhouse in the Village limits
or within one-half (1/2) mile of the Village limits, and shall not dispose of
any waste in any stream or watercourse which flows to within one-half (1/2)
mile of the Village limits. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 6.3.2)
6-3-4: REVOCATION:
Any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter may be revoked by the
President for any violation of any regulations hereof, and such revocation
shall be in addition to any fine imposed by this Chapter. (R.O. 1974, Sec.
6.3.5)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Sidewalks   1
Trees and Shrubs   2
Combined Waterworks and Sewerage System   3
Encroachments   4
On-Site Wastewater Disposal Zone   5
Sewer Use; Wastewater Disposal   6
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Construction Specifications, Restrictions
7-1-2: Grade Established
7-1-3: Unsafe Sidewalks; Repair
7-1-4: Obstructing Sidewalks
7-1-5: Water Drainage
7-1-6: Snow and Ice Removal
7-1-7: Injure Curb or Sidewalk
7-1-8: Penalty
7-1-1: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS, RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Width: On all streets or avenues within the Village, except streets
devoted to business, sidewalks shall be laid at a width of not less than four
feet (4'), and on all business streets and avenues, sidewalks shall be laid
from the property line to the line of the building. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 13.1.1)
   (B)   Private Use, Entrances: No part of any sidewalk will be taken for
private use by elevating or cutting down the same next to the building fronting
thereon, or by railing off the same with an iron or other railing or otherwise
shutting off the public from using the same, but said sidewalk shall be built
on the uniform grade, as hereinbefore provided. Entrances to cellars and
basements to buildings and flights of stairs, or steps may be made which shall
not extend into or on the sidewalk more than four feet (4'), but next to the
building, and the width of the steps, stairs or entrance in sidewalks to the
cellars or basements shall not be more than five feet (5'), and the same shall
at all times be securely protected by the owner or occupant of the building, so
as to protect and prevent persons traveling on such sidewalks from becoming
injured by such projection. Whoever shall violate this provision of this
subsection shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord., 9-19-94)
   (C)   Extensions; Glass or Metal: No person shall build or extend any
sidewalk beyond the established width and no person shall insert any smooth
glass or metal in any sidewalk whatever. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 13.1.5)
   (D)   Steps, Platforms: No steps, platforms or other fixtures shall extend
into or upon any sidewalk or alleyway in the Village. No open cellar or
basement way shall be allowed in any sidewalk of the Village, except in
basements used by business therein, requiring the attendance of the same during
normal business hours. In all cases the basement stairways leading into
basements occupied for business as aforesaid shall have substantial iron guards
or railings on the sides of said stairway on the sidewalk side. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 13.1.7)
7-1-2: GRADE ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   The President and Trustees shall establish a grade for all sidewalks
and the same shall conform as nearly as possible to the grade of their
respective streets. Where no permanent grade is established, they may give
temporary grade and shall, when requested by any person desiring to build a
sidewalk, stake out the grade with the understanding that the Village shall
make a charge to such person. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 13.1.2)
   (B)   No person shall construct or lay or cause to be constructed or laid
any sidewalk where no grade has been established by the Village without having
first obtained a grade therefor from the Village, or shall construct or cause
to be constructed any sidewalk contrary to any established grade which has been
or may thereafter be established by said Board of Trustees, under a penalty of
fifty dollars ($50.00) fine. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which such person shall fail to make the sidewalk conform
to proper grade. (Ord., 9-19-94)
7-1-3: UNSAFE SIDEWALKS; REPAIR:
   (A)   Every sidewalk in the Village which is so much worn or out of repair
as to endanger the safety of persons passing over the same, is hereby declared
a nuisance, and any person who shall suffer or permit such nuisance to exist in
front of or adjoining his premises owned or occupied by him shall be subject to
fine under this chapter, after such person has been notified in writing by the
village clerk or the president or any member of the board of trustees, that
such a condition exists. In the event the owner or occupant of the property so
stated does not take time and steps to repair such defects and abate such
nuisance without delay, the village has the right to abate and repair the same
and send charges for this service to the property owner or take lien on said
property for such repair. (1974 Code § 13.1.6)
   (B)   The village shall help the property owner to see that the sidewalks
are kept in good repair, and in an effort to do the same, shall reimburse the
property owner in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the cost for the
repair or reconstruction of any sidewalk within the village. This payment shall
not be made for new sidewalk construction in conjunction with the construction
of a new building or to contractors who are asking for consideration of new
annexation of property in subdivision type form. (Ord. 10-07-06-1, 7-6-2010)
7-1-4: OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, set or hand over or upon
any sidewalk in the village any goods, wares or merchandise, except within four
feet (4') distance from the building occupied by him, and also it shall be
unlawful for any person to erect, place or suspend any sign, flag, banner,
showcase or any other picture projecting into or handing over any sidewalk in
the village, exceeding four feet (4') distance from the building or premises
owned or occupied by such person. (1974 Code § 13.1.8; amd. 1975 Code)
   (B)   No person shall encumber or obstruct more than four feet (4') of the
outer edge of the sidewalk with goods, wares, merchandise, fuel or other
articles he may receive in the course of his business, or which may be
delivered in the due course of his business. (1974 Code § 13.1.9)
7-1-5: WATER DRAINAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit the water falling or
draining from the roof of any building owned or occupied by them to spread over
the sidewalk in front of such building, and any person violating the provisions
of this section shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance. (1974 Code §
13.1.10)
7-1-6: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
Every owner or occupant of any building or lessee of any enclosed lot or
premises and every person having charge or control of any church, hall or
public building shall, during the winter months, whenever there is a fall of
snow, and then by ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on each day thereafter, clear the
sidewalk in front of the property named above from snow and ice and keep the
same reasonably free of the same, or shall in case the snow and ice are so
congealed as to cause difficulty to removal or injury to the sidewalk, see that
a covering of ice melting salt is spread thereover making the sidewalk as safe
as possible for use. (1974 Code § 13.1.11)
7-1-7: INJURE CURB OR SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to cut, mar, break,
deface or in any way disfigure or injure any curb or sidewalk within the
village. (1974 Code § 13.1.12)
7-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person found in violation of any section of this chapter shall pay a fine
of not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by a sentence of
confinement in the village or county jail not to exceed six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment, unless otherwise provided. (1974 Code §
13.1.14; amd. 1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Planting Specifications
7-2-2: Removal by Village
7-2-3: Permission to Remove
7-2-4: Trimming Trees
7-2-5: Penalty
7-2-1: PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS:
Any person owning or having control of any lot, land or parcel of ground
adjoining or abutting any public street or avenue in the Village may plant
trees nine feet (9') from the lot line adjoining on any street or avenue within
the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 16.1.1)
Any person who shall plant in any street or avenue of the Village any tree or
shrub further from or at a less distance than nine feet (9') from the lots
lines along any public street or avenue in the Village shall be fined under
this Chapter for every tree or shrub permitted to remain after notice to remove
the same has been given by the Street Commissioner, the President of the Board
or by any one of the Trustees of the Village. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 16.1.2)
7-2-2: REMOVAL BY VILLAGE:
It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to remove any tree or shrub
that shall hereafter be planted in violation of the provisions of this Chapter.
(R.O. 1974, Sec. 16.1.3)
7-2-3: PERMISSION TO REMOVE:
No person, except in compliance with this Chapter, shall cut, fell, injure or
remove any shade or other tree standing in or upon any street, avenue, sidewalk
or public ground in the Village, unless by the authority of the Board of
Trustees, under penalty of this Chapter. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 16.1.4)
7-2-4: TRIMMING TREES:
   (A)   All trees planted, cultivated or maintained in the Village along any
street or avenue, after having reached a suitable growth, shall have the
branches thereof cut and properly trimmed at a reasonable height from the
ground, and when of a suitable growth, trimmed at least ten feet (10') above
ground, so as not to interfere or encumber the passage of persons along the
sidewalks and cars along the streets or avenues, and so as not to obscure the
reflections of public street lights. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 16.1.5)
   (B)   If any tree shall be permitted by the owner or occupant of the
property to grow in such a way as to interfere with travel on any street,
avenue or sidewalk or so as to obstruct the light from any public street lamp,
it shall be the duty of the Village to notify such person, owner or occupant,
in writing, to trim such tree or trees within a time and in such a manner to be
specified in such notice. If such person so notified shall neglect or refuse to
comply with such notice, he shall be liable for any charges that the Village
may incur in having this work done for him, in behalf of the public safety and
welfare, in addition to any fine imposed by the terms of any Section of this
Chapter. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 16.1.6)
7-2-5: PENALTY:
If any person is found to be guilty of any violation of any Section of this
Chapter, he shall be liable for a fine not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (R.O.
1974, Sec. 16.1.7)
CHAPTER 3
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM 1 , 2
SECTION:
7-3-1: Systems Combined
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Supervisor Of The Combined Waterworks And Sewerage System
7-3-4: Regulations For Maintenance And Operation
7-3-5: Permits; Water And Sewer Connections
7-3-6: Rates
7-3-7: Tapping Lines; Excavations
7-3-8: Default Of Payment
7-3-9: Reserved
7-3-10: Injure, Remove Sewerage Equipment
7-3-11: Repair And Liability To Village
7-3-12: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1-2-12 of this code.
2 2. See subsection
  7-6-9(F) of this title regarding fees.
7-3-1: SYSTEMS COMBINED:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and in the best interest
of the public and of the village that the waterworks and sewerage systems of
the village be and are hereby combined and shall hereafter be maintained and
operated as a combined waterworks and sewerage system. (1974 Code § 8.1.1)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: As used herein, means and includes the existing collection,
intercepting and outlet sewer, lateral sewers and drains, including the
combined stormwater and sanitary drains, and all other appurtenances necessary
or useful in connection therewith, and shall include any future alterations,
extensions, improvements or additions thereto.
WATERWORKS: Means and includes the existing waterworks system of the village in
its entirety, and any integral part thereof, including pumps, machinery, wells,
storage and pressure tanks, distribution system, hydrants, meters, valves and
all other elements necessary or useful in connection therewith, and shall
include any future alterations, extensions, improvements or additions thereto.
(1974 Code § 8.1.2)
7-3-3: SUPERVISOR OF THE COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM:
   (A)   The combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village shall be
managed by the supervisor who shall be appointed, subject to the approval of a
majority of the board of trustees, on or before May 1 in each year, except for
the first such appointment hereunder, which shall be made forthwith following
the effective date hereof. Such officer shall be known as and is hereby
designated as "supervisor of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
village of Grant Park, Illinois".
   (B)   The term of each such supervisor shall expire on April 30 next
following his appointment, except that each incumbent shall hold such office
until his successor shall have been appointed and shall have been duly
qualified. Such supervisor shall qualify, before entering upon his duties by
giving evidence to the board of trustees that he is competent to hold such
office.
   (C)   The compensation of such officer shall be fixed by the village board
of trustees.
   (D)   The supervisor shall be in charge of the enforcement of all
regulations adopted by the president and board of trustees of the village for
the maintenance and operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage system.
He shall be responsible for the preparation of all chemicals used and
introduced into the water supply. (1974 Code § 8.1.3)
7-3-4: REGULATIONS FOR MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
The following regulations for the maintenance and operation of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system are hereby adopted:
   (A)   Water: No permanent connection shall be made between the water
distribution system of the Village and the water supply and plumbing facilities
of any building serviced or to be served by the waterworks of the Village,
until there shall be installed all such fittings and equipment as the County or
Village inspectors shall say are needed and approved.
   (B)   No owner, tenant or occupant of any building serviced or to be served
as to water supply by the waterworks of the Village shall deny any authorized
employee or agent of the Village access to the water system of the building for
the purpose of inspection thereof during the daylight hours.
   (C)   Sewerage: No sanitary sewer outlet from any building shall be
connected to, with or into the sewerage system of the Village except an
overflow connection or outlet from a septic tank, which septic tank shall be
located upon the premises occupied by the building served or to be served by
such outlet and which septic tank shall be constructed of nonporous material
and of sufficient depth and capacity to allow reasonable treatment of the
sewerage from the building which it serves.
   (D)   All sanitary sewer connections, whether from buildings to septic tanks
or from septic tanks to the Village sewerage system shall be constructed of
hardened, nonporous tile or cast iron tubing, with sealed joints, and shall be
buried to a depth of not less than forty inches (40").
   (E)   No storm water collected upon the premises occupied by any building
serviced or to be served by the sewerage system of the Village shall be allowed
to flow into or through the septic tank by these buildings served or to be
served by the sewerage system of the Village.
   (F)   No waste water from any plumbing facility in any building served or to
be served by the sewerage system of the Village, containing oil, grease, fat or
particles of oily, greasy or fatty matter of any kind shall be caused to flow
into or through the septic tank on the premises occupied by the building served
or to be served by the sewerage system of the Village, unless such waste water
shall have first been flowed through a grease trap or the oil, grease, fat or
particles of oily, greasy or fatty matter be trapped therefrom. (R.O. 1974,
Sec. 8.1.4)
7-3-5: PERMITS; WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Water Connections
      1.   No person shall make or cause to be made any connection to, with or
into any water main or water distribution pipe belonging to the Village without
having first obtained a permit to do so.
Application therefor shall be made to the Village Building Inspector and shall
be accompanied by the permit fee hereinafter provided. Upon receipt of such
application the Building Inspector shall inspect the premises for which the
connection is requested and shall issue the permit only if the regulations set
forth under Section
7-3-4 hereof have been complied with.
      2.   In all instances where the water main or water supply pipe of the
Village lies on the same side of the street as is the building for which the
water connection is requested, the permit fee for a water connection is hereby
fixed at five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      3.   In all instances where the water main or water supply pipe of the
Village lies on the opposite side of the street as is the building for which
the water connection is requested, the permit fee for a water connection is
hereby fixed at five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 9-19-94)
      4.   The cost of all excavation, labor, materials and refill shall in
either case be borne by the applicant and a deposit of five hundred dollars
($500.00) will be required at this time to assure proper completion under
subsection
7-3-7(C) of this Chapter. When the terms of said subsection
 7-3-7(C) are approved by the Street Commission of the Village, the deposit
shall be refunded. It shall be the duty of the owner of the property to notify
the Street Commission of such construction and failure to do so shall
constitute forfeiture of the deposit due and further penalty under Section
7-3-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 7-5-82, 6-5-82; amd. Ord., 1-7-85)
   (B)   Sewer Connections:
      1.   No person shall make or cause to be made any connection to, with or
into any water main or water distribution pipe belonging to the Village without
having first obtained a written permit to do so.
Application therefor shall be made to the Village Building Inspector of the
Combined Waterworks and Sewage System and shall be accompanied by the permit
fee hereinafter provided. Upon receipt of such application the Building
Inspector shall inspect the premises for which the connection is requested and
shall issue the permit only if the regulations set forth under Section
7-3-4 hereof have been complied with. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 8.1.5)
      2.   In all instances where the tile of the sewerage system of the
Village lies on the same side of the street as is the building for which the
outlet connection is requested, the permit fee for a sewer outlet connection is
hereby fixed at five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      3.   In all instances where the tile of the sewerage system of the
Village lies on the opposite side of the street as is the building for which
the outlet connection is requested, the permit fee for a sewer outlet
connection is hereby fixed at five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 9-19-94)
      4.   The cost of all excavation, labor, materials and refill shall in
either event be borne by the applicant. A deposit of five hundred dollars
($500.00) will be required at this time to assure proper completion under
subsection
7-3-7(C) of this Chapter. When the terms of subsection
7-3-7(C) are approved by the Street Commission of the Village, the deposit
shall be refunded. It shall be the duty of the owner of the property to notify
the Street Commission of such construction and failure to do so shall
constitute forfeiture of the deposit due and further penalty under Section
7-3-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 7-5-82, 6-5-82; amd. Ord. 1-7-85)
   (C)   Requirements for Sewer Connections:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, public or private to connect or
cause to be connected, any industrial or domestic waste into the existing storm
or existing field tile sewer system within the Municipality's boundary which
does not meet part 4 of chapter 3 of the Illinois Pollution Control Board
Regulations and for which a construction permit is required by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, unless that construction permit is duly
obtained.
      2.   Any person violating this Chapter shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every
day during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord., 9-19-94)
7-3-6: RATES:
   (A)   All users of the facilities for water distribution and supply and for
sewerage collection provided by the Village under the combined waterworks and
sewerage system shall be liable for and shall pay a reasonable compensation to
the Village for the use and service of the combined waterworks and sewerage
system, as hereby affixed.
   (B)   The classification of users and rates applicable shall be set for the
respective classifications by the Board of Trustees as contract and operation
costs of the system demand. The rate for all users shall be considered at the
time of the negotiations with the garbage scavenger collection contract, at the
beginning of every year. After the consideration of the Board, as to the cost
of operation and upkeep, bookkeeping and contract terms that may have to be
considered, the Board shall post with the Village Clerk, in the record of the
Village, the rate for water, sewerage and scavenger collection for the
forthcoming year. This rate information shall be published for the general
public before the time such rate information shall come into effect. At no
time, however, shall the addition of charges for bookkeeping, upkeep and
supervision of the Department exceed ten percent (10%) of the cost incurred
under new contract or of the operation expense for the year ending, for which
figures of operation and expense are available.
   (C)   The charges for water, sewerage and garbage rates shall be due and
payable on a monthly basis, the combined monthly rate to be concurrent with the
monthly periods effective for these rates. All rate due statements shall be
mailed within the first five (5) days of the month, or if possible, on the
first day of the month, and shall carry the printed clause that they be payable
by the twenty fifth day of the month. The Village shall have the right to
request that a ten percent (10%) penalty charge be payable with the billing, if
paid after the twenty fifth day of the month. (R.O. 1974, Sec. 81.6)
   (D)   All users of water and or sewer when such service is used and received
outside of the Village limits shall be charged the rate for "in Village"
service plus an additional fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. For each
subsequent six (6) month period fifty dollars ($50.00) will be added. (Ord., 5-
15-95)
7-3-7: TAPPING LINES; EXCAVATIONS:
   (A)   After agreement with, and payment of all the aforementioned fees for
connection, and the approval of the Board, the applicant may, at his expense,
make all excavations and place pipes, drains and other necessary materials
preparatory to the actual connections to the Village sewerage system lines. All
materials must be free from defects and shall conform to the requirements of
the American Society for Testing and Materials.
   (B)   Upon approval by the Village inspector of all excavations and
materials, the applicant may, at his expense, cause a tap to be made to the
Village sewerage system lines. The tap to the storm sewer lines may be made
only by a person or persons authorized and appointed by the Village to make
such taps.
   (C)   Upon approval of all taps to the Village sewer lines, the applicant
shall cause, at his expense, all excavations to be restored to their original
conditions. Backfills must be made of sand or stone screening and after being
approved, the deposit under section
7-3-5 of this chapter shall be refunded. (Ord. O-4-16-1, 4-4-2016)
7-3-8: DEFAULT OF PAYMENT:
   (A)   Billing:
      1.   Bills Due, Late Fee: Bills shall be rendered monthly and shall be
payable on the due date stated on the bill. Failure to receive a bill or not
reading a bill will not excuse a customer from his or her obligation to pay
within the time period specified. A ten percent (10%) late fee shall be added
to the bill if not paid within the said time period.
      2.   Delinquency:
         (a)   Late fees will be assessed when a sewer bill is overdue.
         (b)   At thirty (30) days, late fees are added to the bill along with
the new sewer charges. Included in the bill will be a copy of the ordinance and
consequences for continued non- payment.
         (c)   At sixty (60) days, if the outstanding sewer charges are not
current, the account goes into debt recovery.
         (d)   At ninety (90) days, if the outstanding sewer charges, including
late fees, are not current, the septic tank will be disconnected from the sewer
system and the residence and/or business will be considered uninhabitable.
         (e)   The cost of disconnection and reconnection will be added to the
existing sewer bill before the residence and/or business can be entered again.
This fee generally does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      3.   Non-Sufficient Funds: Any person issuing a check or other draft,
including credit or debit card payment, to the Village of Grant Park that is
not honored upon presentation because the payee does not have an account, or
does not have sufficient funds in his account, shall be assessed a twenty five
dollar ($25.00) non-sufficient funds fee. Any obligation fee paid in such
manner shall remain outstanding and any penalties, interest, or fees will
continue to accrue until the Village receives funds for the outstanding amount
plus the non-sufficient funds fee. If payment was made in response to a
disconnection notice, such action shall proceed as if no payment had been made.
      4.   Filing Of Suit, Lien, Or Disconnection For Payment Default: The
Village shall have the right in the event of default on payment of any of the
aforesaid charges or services and as a condition to any person or corporation
using the aforesaid facilities in the event of a failure to pay the amount
billed, to file suit for collection, file a lien against the property being
serviced, pursue outside collection efforts and disconnect said service or any
combination thereof, all at the option of the Village.
   (B)   Late Payment Report: At the first Village Board meeting in the months
of March, June, September, and December, the Village Clerk shall report a full
list of the names of all users of the aforesaid charges or services which are
unpaid within thirty (30) days after the bill for services has become due. The
Village Clerk shall then publish a list of the names of all users who are more
than thirty (30) days late in the payment of the aforesaid charges or services
in a newspaper published in the Village and by posting a copy thereof in
Village Hall on March 15 and November 15 of each year. Additionally, the
Village may include the aforesaid list with the monthly bills issued to users
of Village sewer and garbage services in the billing cycle immediately
following the report of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Reconnection Fee: In the event that sewer services are disconnected as
a result of nonpayment of sewer bills, sewer service shall not be reinstated
until all past due bills are paid in full, including a five hundred dollar
($500.00) reconnection fee, together with the reasonable costs incurred by the
Village in disconnecting or reinstating the service.
   (D)   Landlords, Property Owners And Tenants Jointly And Severally
Responsible For Water And Sewer Utility Bills:
      1.   Every landlord or property owner, and the occupant thereof, shall be
jointly and severally responsible for any utility charges or fees left unpaid
by any tenant of the premises served by the water or sewer utility; and the
water and sewer utility services shall be furnished to the premises by the
Village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and
customer of the water service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the
Village. Further, where the landlord or property owner fails to pay the utility
charge(s), the Township may refuse to provide any water service to the property
with the delinquent charge even in the name of a subsequent tenant.
      2.   When a tenant is delinquent in payment for over thirty (30) days,
the Village shall make a good faith effort to notify the landlord or owner of
the premises receiving such service of the delinquency and the amount thereof.
Any notice of termination shall be sent to both the occupant and landlord or
owner of the premises receiving such service. If the Village shall fail to do
this, the failure will not relieve the tenant, landlord or owner of the
premises of his or her obligation to pay the delinquent account.
      3.   The landlord or property owner of any real estate may at any time,
whether a utility bill is current or delinquent, notify the Village in writing
that they request to have the water and/or sewer service to the premises
disconnected for a fee, and acknowledge that a subsequent reconnection of the
water service may require a reconnection charge as may be provided for
elsewhere in this Code. This section shall not be construed to allow the
landlord or owner of any property to procure the disconnection of sewer and/or
water service on said property against the will of any occupants thereof. (Ord.
O-10-16-3, 10-10-2016)
7-3-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. O-4-16-1, 4-4-2016)
7-3-10: INJURE, REMOVE SEWERAGE EQUIPMENT:
Any person who shall, within the Village, break, deface, injure or remove any
cap or coping stone or grate belonging to any catch basin, manhole, vent, inlet
or intake of any sewer belonging to the Village, or who shall, in any manner,
injure the mouth of such drain or sewer, shall for each offense be subject to a
fine specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1974 Code § 12.5.2; amd. 1975 Code)
7-3-11: REPAIR AND LIABILITY TO VILLAGE:
   (A)   Sewer line problems that may occur because of tree or plant roots in
the system will become the liability of the Village only to the customer's
property line. (Ord. O-4-16-1, 4-4-2016)
7-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, where no other penalty is
provided, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (11-15-56; amd. 1975 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Specifically Regulated Encroachments (Rep. by Ord., 9-19-94)
7-4-3: Encroachments Unlawful
7-4-4: Additional Ruling
7-4-5: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA: The area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the Village, by concurrence
in the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the State
to enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object of any
kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is placed,
located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project right of
way or the roadway right of way where no project right-of-way line has been
established.
PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT: Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign or
similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent to
the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on
the highway, the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
PROJECT RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas within the project right-of- way lines
established jointly by the Village and the State which will be free of
encroachments except as hereinafter defined.
ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by fee
simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect. (Ord., 12-19-77)
7-4-2: SPECIFICALLY REGULATED ENCROACHMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord., 9-19-94)
7-4-3: ENCROACHMENTS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause to
be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment within the
limits of the project right of way or roadway right of way where no project
right-of-way lines have been established. (Ord., 12-19-77)
7-4-4: ADDITIONAL RULING:
This Ordinance is intended to and shall be in addition to all other ordinances,
rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be construed as
repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any ordinance unless in
direct conflict therewith. (Ord., 12-19-77)
7-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating this Chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and
every day during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord., 9-19-94)
CHAPTER 5
ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Formation
7-5-2: Public Benefit
7-5-3: Boundaries
7-5-4: Wastewater Facilities
7-5-5: Facilities Plan
7-5-6: Number of Units
7-5-7: Financing
7-5-8: Compliance
7-5-9: Owner Responsibility
7-5-10: Public Hearing
7-5-11: Authority
7-5-1: FORMATION:
The President and Board of Trustees hereby declare the formation of an On-Site
Wastewater Disposal Zone (hereinafter called "Zone") pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 90/1 through 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 90/22.
7-5-2: PUBLIC BENEFIT:
The President and Board of Trustees find that formation of an On-Site
Wastewater Disposal Zone and implementation of the recommendations of said
Facilities Plan will benefit the public by:
   (A)   Protecting the public health,
   (B)   Preventing and abating nuisances,
   (C)   Protecting existing and future beneficial water uses, and
   (D)   Achieving compliance with regulations of the Pollution Control Board
and other statutes or requirements regarding public health or environmental
protection.
7-5-3: BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of said zone are hereby established as the corporate limits of
the Village, plus the following properties:
   (A)   A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at a point on the East
and West Half-Section Line of said Section 19, 161/2 feet East of the SW1/4 of
said E1/2 of the NE 1/4 of said Section 19, running thence East along said
Half-Section Line 180.19 feet to a stake, running thence North 241.74 feet to a
stake, running thence West 180.19 feet to a stake, running thence South 241.74
feet to the place of beginning, said parcel containing 1 acre, more or less,
and being a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 19 in Township 32 North,
Range 14 East of the Third Principal Meridian, situated in the Township of
Yellowhead, County of Kankakee, in the State of Illinois, commonly known as 309
West Hambleton Street, Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No. 329842, Book 503,
Page 585)
   (B)   A tract of land in the NE1/4 of Section 19, Township 32 North, Range
14 East of the Third Principal Meridian described as follows: Beginning at a
point on the East and West half Section line 486.57 feet East of the Southwest
corner of the East 1/2 of the NE1/4 of said Section 19 and running thence East
on said half Section line a distance of 84 feet, running thence North parallel
with the West line of said E1/2 of the NE1/4 241.74 feet, thence running West
parallel with the East and West half Section line, 84 feet, running thence
South parallel with the West line of said E1/2 of the NE1/4 241.74 feet to the
point of beginning, in Kankakee County, Illinois, commonly known as 307 West
Hambleton Street, Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No. 74-1973)
   (C)   A tract of land in the NE1/4 of Section 19, Township 32 North, Range
14 East of the Third Principal Meridian, described as follows: Beginning at a
point on the East and West half Section line 570.57 feet East of the Southwest
corner of the East half of the NE1/4 of said Section 19 and running thence East
on said half Section line a distance of 105.19 feet, running thence North
parallel with the West line of said East half of the NE1/4 241.74 feet, thence
running West parallel with the East and West half section line 105.19 feet,
running thence South parallel with the West line of said East half of the NE1/
4 241.74 feet to the point of beginning, in Kankakee County, Illinois, commonly
known as 305 West Hambleton Street, Grant Park, Illinois.
   (D)   A tract of land in the NE1/4 of Section 19, Township 32 North, Range
14 East of the Third Principal meridian, described as follows: Commencing at a
point on the East and West Half Section line 675.76 feet East of the Southwest
corner of the E1/2 of the NE1/4 of said Section 19, running thence East on said
Half Section line 241.74 feet to a stake; thence North parallel with the West
line of said E1/2 of the NE1/4 241.74 feet to a stake, thence North parallel
with the West line of said E1/2 of the NE 1/4 241.74 feet to a stake; thence
West parallel with said East and West Half Section line 241.74 feet to a stake;
thence South parallel with the West line of said E1/2 of the NE1/4 241.74 feet
to the place of beginning, Kankakee County, Illinois, commonly known as 303
West Hambleton, Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No. 522278, Book 806, Page 147)
   (E)   A tract of land in the Southeast corner of the NE1/4 of Section 19,
township 32 North, Range 14 East of the Third Principal Meridian located and
bounded as follows: Commencing at the Southeast Corner of the Northeast Quarter
of said Section 19 and proceeding thence westerly on the South line of said
Northeast Quarter of said Section a distance of 160 feet to a point; proceeding
thence north on a line parallel with the east line of said Section, a distance
of 99.8 feet to a point; proceeding thence East 89 50' West, a distance of 160
feet to a point on the East line of said Northeast Quarter of said Section 19,
and proceeding thence South on the East line of said Section to the point of
beginning, which is situated in the County of Kankakee in the State of
Illinois, commonly known as 201 West Hambleton Street, Grant Park, Illinois.
(Document No. 73-12161)
   (F)   A tract of land described as follows: Commencing at the Northeast
corner of the NW1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 30, in Township 32 North, Range 14
East of the Third Principal Meridian, situated in the County of Kankakee, State
of Illinois, running thence West 150 feet on the North line of said Section,
running thence South at right angles to said North section line 435.6 feet,
running thence East parallel with the said North section line 150 feet, running
thence North 435.6 feet to the point beginning, said land being located in the
northeast corner of the NW1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 30 in Township 32 North,
Range 14 East of the Third Principal Meridian, situated in the County of
Kankakee and State of Illinois, commonly known as 402 West Dixie Highway, Grant
Park, Illinois. (Document No. 445402, Book 477, Page 199)
   (G)   A tract of land in the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 30, Township 32
North, Range 14 East of the Third Principal Meridian, situated in Kankakee
County, Illinois, described as follows: Commencing at the Northwest corner of
the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of said Section 30 above described, thence East on the
North line of said Section 10 rods, thence South parallel with the West line of
said NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of said Section 30 above described 40 rods, thence West
parallel with the North line of said Section 10 rods, thence North 40 rods to
the place of beginning, situated in the County of Kankakee, State of Illinois,
commonly known as 312 West Dixie Highway, Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No.
76-26)
   (H)   A tract of land commencing 10 rods East of the Northwest corner of the
NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 30, Township 32 North, Range 14, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, thence running East 10 rods, thence running South 40
rods, thence running East 10 rods, thence running North 40 rods, to the place
of beginning, containing 21/2 acres. Commonly known as 308 West Dixie Highway,
Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No. 383345, Book No. 604, Page 339)
   (I)   Commencing 330 feet East of the Northwest corner of the NE1/4 of the
NE1/4 of Section 30 in Township 32, North, Range 14 East of the Third Principal
Meridian in the County of Kankakee and State of Illinois; running thence East
on the North Line of said NE1/4 of said Section, 110 feet; thence South 230
feet; thence West 110 feet parallel with the North Line of said Northeast
Quarter of said Section; thence North 230 feet to the place of beginning in the
Township of Yellowhead, situated in Kankakee County, Illinois, commonly known
as 302 West Dixie Highway, Grant Park, Illinois. (Book 536, page 121)
   (J)   A tract of land in the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
Section 30, Township 32 North, Range 14 East of the Third Principal Meridian,
in Yellowhead Township, Kankakee County, Illinois, more particularly described
as follows: Commencing at the Northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter of the
Northeast Quarter of said Section 30, thence Easterly on the North line of said
Northeast Quarter of Section 30 a distance of 440 feet to a point, said point
to be known as the point of beginning of this description, thence Easterly on
the North line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 30 a distance of 177
feet; thence Southerly on a line parallel with the centerline of Maple Street
extended a distance of 186 feet; thence Westerly on a line parallel with said
North line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 30 a distance of 177 feet;
thence Northerly on a line parallel with the centerline of Maple Street
extended a distance of 186 feet to the point of beginning, all reference to
said Maple Street being as originally platted, commonly known as 206 West Dixie
Highway, Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No. 80-06678)
   (K)   A tract of land located in the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 30,
Township 32 North, Range 14 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Kankakee
County, Illinois, described as follows: Commencing at a point on the North line
of said Section 30 which is 617 feet East of the Northwest Corner of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 30 to be the point
of beginning of this description; thence East on the North line of said Section
30, a distance of 197 feet when said North line intersects with the center line
of Maple Street as platted of record in the Village of Grant Park, Kankakee
County, Illinois, extended Southerly, thence Southerly on the center line of
Maple Street extended a distance of 186.0 feet; thence West on the line
parallel with the North line of said Section 30, a distance of 197 feet; thence
North on line parallel with the center line of Maple Street extended 186 feet
to the point of beginning, situated in the County of Kankakee, Illinois,
commonly known as 401 South Maple Street, Grant Park, Illinois. (Document No.
77-4877)
7-5-4: WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
The on-site wastewater disposal systems consist of septic tanks and discharge
pipes.
7-5-5: FACILITIES PLAN:
The plan for wastewater disposal is set forth in the Facilities Plan for the
Village of Grant Park, Illinois, dated October, 1979, an Addendum to said Plan,
dated September, 1981, and said plan is summarized as follows:
   (A)   Existing septic tanks receiving wastewater from structures in the Zone
will be inspected and, if found to be acceptable, utilized or, if found to be
unacceptable, repaired or replaced as necessary.
   (B)   The existing sewer system to which the existing septic tanks discharge
will be retained to convey the partially treated wastewater discharged from
said septic tanks for further treatment at the wastewater treatment plant.
   (C)   Wastewater treatment facilities including wastewater pumping, single-
cell nonaerated lagoon, intermittent sand filters, filter recirculation pumps
and piping, chlorination and metering facilities, out-fall piping and
appurtenances will be constructed to properly treat and discharge the septic
tank effluent.
   (D)   The Village will be responsible for operation and maintenance,
including replacement, of publicly-owned wastewater conveyance and treatment
facilities in accordance with established practices and regulations of the
Illinois Pollution Control Board and other applicable statutes and regulations.
The Village will employ a properly certified wastewater treatment plant
operator.
   (E)   The Village will be responsible for operation and maintenance,
including replacement, of on-site wastewater disposal systems (septic tanks and
discharge pipes) within the Zone that are connected to the public sewer on the
following basis:
      1.   The Village will establish a program of routine inspection to be
performed not less than once every three (3) years on all on-site wastewater
disposal systems. Inspections will be performed by the Village's certified
operator or by a registered sanitarian employed by, or under contract with, the
Village. Inspections will consist of determining:
         (a)   Whether the septic tank meets minimum acceptable standards with
regard to inlet and outlet baffles, watertightness and general structural and
functional integrity;
         (b)   Whether repairs to or replacement of, the septic tank or
discharge pipe are necessary and the nature of any necessary repairs; and
         (c)   Whether removal of wastes (septage) from the septic tank is
necessary for protection of the publicly-owned conveyance and treatment
facilities. Limited inspection for this last purpose may be conducted at more
frequent intervals based on the operator's judgement and experience.
      2.   Necessary repairs to, or replacement of, on-site wastewater disposal
systems will be performed by Village employees or by a licensed private sewage
disposal system contractor.
Removal and disposal of wastes from on-site wastewater disposal systems will be
performed by a licensed private sewage disposal contractor in accordance with
the provisions of the "Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code"
effective, March 10, 1982, as well as other applicable statutes, laws and
ordinances.
   (F)   The Village will not be responsible for installation, operation,
maintenance or replacement of wastewater generating fixtures within buildings
or conveyance pipes from such fixtures to the septic tank inlet. The Village
shall adopt an Ordinance entitled The Sewer Use Ordinance which outlines
reasonable rules and regulations regarding fixtures and conveyance pipes
necessary to protect the on-site wastewater disposal systems and publicly-owned
conveyance and treatment facilities and to implement the purposes of the Zone.
7-5-6: NUMBER OF UNITS:
The number of residential units in the Zone which the Village proposes to serve
is three hundred sixty eight (368), more or less. The number of nonresidential
users, including commercial and institutional users, in the Zone which the
Village proposes to serve is forty four (44), more or less.
7-5-7: FINANCING:
The proposed means of financing the operations of the Zone consists of a system
of user charges based on actual use, or estimated use, of wastewater treatment
services. The user charge system shall provide sufficient revenue to pay the
costs of debt service on revenue bonds which may be issued by the Village to
finance the local share of project capital costs, and the costs of operation
and maintenance, including replacement, of the proposed wastewater facilities.
The costs of routine inspection of on-site wastewater disposal systems,
periodic removal and disposal of wastes from such systems and repairs to or
replacement of such systems shall be considered to be operation and maintenance
costs and shall be paid out of the proceeds of the user charge system.
7-5-8: COMPLIANCE:
Prior to commencement of construction of wastewater facilities described in
subsections
7-5-5(A), (B) and (C), of this Chapter, the President and Board of Trustees
shall adopt an Ordinance entitled a User Charge Ordinance complying with
regulations of the United States Environmental Protection Agency at 40 CFR
35.929 and other applicable laws and regulations.
7-5-9: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Prior to completion of construction of the wastewater facilities described in
subsections
7-5-5(A), (B) and (C) of this Chapter, the President and Board of Trustees
shall adopt an Ordinance entitled a Sewer Use Ordinance complying with
regulations of the United States Environmental Protection Agency at 40 CFR
35.927-4 and other applicable laws and regulations. Said Sewer Use Ordinance
contains requirements for future connections to publicly-owned conveyance and
treatment facilities of the Village. In general, these requirements provide
that owners of buildings which are to be connected to the public sewer shall
install properly sized septic tanks and discharge pipes at their own expense
and that a representative of the Village shall inspect and approve these septic
tanks and discharge pipes and that the Village shall thereafter assume
responsibility for their operation, maintenance and replacement as provided in
Section
7-5-5(E) of this Chapter.
7-5-10: PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing on the question of the formation and extent of the proposed
Zone and on the question of the number and type of residential units and
nonresidential units that are to be served in the proposed Zone was held at
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., on October 12, 1981 at the Grant Park Village Hall.
During the hearing, the project was discussed and questions and comments were
taken from the audience. At the end of the public hearing a show of hands in
regards to the project was taken. Of the fifteen (15) attendees, eleven (11)
were in favor of the project, one was opposed and two (2) were undecided.
7-5-11: AUTHORITY:
Upon formation of the Zone, the Village of Grant Park, acting through its
President and Board of Trustees, shall have all the authority and
responsibilities regarding management of on-site wastewater disposal systems
within such zone, which authority and responsibilities are more fully set forth
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 90/15 through 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
90/21. However, in no case shall the Village of Grant Park be responsible for
the routine inspection or periodic removal and disposal of wastes from any on-
site wastewater disposal system prior to connection of such system to the
publicly-owned conveyance and treatment facilities described in subsections
7-5-5(B) and (C), of this Chapter. (Ord. 7-3-13, 1-16-84)
CHAPTER 6
SEWER USE; WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Use of Public Sewer Required
7-6-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-6-4: Permits Required, Application
7-6-5: Costs; Indemnification
7-6-6: Separate Sewers Required; Use of Old Sewers
7-6-7: Construction and Connection Specifications
7-6-8: Restoration of Public Ways
7-6-9: Connection Fees
7-6-10: Control of Wastes
7-6-11: Interceptors
7-6-12: Preliminary Treatment, Flow-Equalizing Facilities
7-6-13: Control Manhole
7-6-14: Testing and Samples
7-6-15: Special Agreement or Arrangements
7-6-16: Protection of Sewage Works From Damage
7-6-17: Powers and Authority of Inspectors
7-6-18: Penalties
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
GOVERNMENT, FEDERAL:
Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Federal Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act 1 , as amended by the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of 1972 2 .
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II-Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
GOVERNMENT, LOCAL:
Approving Authority: The Superintendent of Public Works.
Ordinance: This Ordinance.
Village: The Village of Grant Park.
GOVERNMENT, STATE:
Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
State Act: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
State Grant: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (one and five-tenths [1.5] meters)
outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the Village
of Grant Park. It shall also include sewers within or outside the Village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
Village sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with Village funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial waste or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage, but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments or places
engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the Village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Establishments engaged in manufacturing activities involving
the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance into
products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Schools, hospitals, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with Federal, State and local government.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user either "residential", "commercial", "industrial"
or "institutional/governmental" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20°) centigrade, expressed in milligrams
per liter.
Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly-owned treatment
works that:
   (A)   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work
day; or
   (B)   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
Municipal system receiving the waste; or
   (C)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
   (D)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is one-thousandth (0.001) g of the constituent in one thousand
(1,000) ml of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard Methods".
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing twenty two-hundredths
(0.22) pounds of BOD and twenty five-hundredths (0.25) pounds of suspended
solids.
Sewage: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any given period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
Standard Methods: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater", published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
Suspended Solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of Illinois
3 .
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or groundwater.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
 
Notes
1 1. 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
2 2. Pub. L. 92-500 and Pub. L. 93-243.
3 1. S.H.A. 415 ILCS 5/11 et seq.
7-6-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the Village
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located, any public sanitary sewer of the Village, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
properly sized septic tank(s) and an effluent pipe connection, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one hundred feet
(100') (thirty and five-tenths [30.5] meters) of the property line.
7-6-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not within one hundred feet (100')
(thirty and five-tenths [30.5] meters) of the property line in question and
being situated within the Village corporate limits, the building sewer of said
property shall either be connected at the owner's expense to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this Section or the owner
shall extend at his expense the public sewer, in compliance with Sections
7-6-4 through
7-6-9 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Building
Inspector. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the Village (reference Appendix #2 to the Ordinance codified as this Chapter)
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Building Inspector. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Building Inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within eight (8)
working hours (Monday through Friday) of the receipt of written notice by the
Building Inspector.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code 1  and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than six thousand (6,000) square feet (five hundred
fifty seven and four-tenths [557.4] square meters). No septic tank shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the Village.
   (F)   At such time a public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection in compliance with this
Chapter shall be made, at the property owner's expense, from the public sewer
to the private sewage disposal system. Any private sewage disposal facilities
other than a properly-sized septic tank shall be properly abandoned, filled
with suitable material and replaced with septic tank(s) complying with the
State of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and this
Chapter, all done at the owner's expense.
   (G)   At the time the private sewage disposal system, i.e., the septic tank,
is permitted by the Village Superintendent of Public Works for direct
connection to the public sewer, the Village shall be responsible for operation,
maintenance and replacement of the above-mentioned septic tank, in accordance
with Chapter 5 of this Title "On-Site Wastewater Disposal Zone".
   (H)   No statement contained in this Article shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Village Health
Officer.
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
7-6-4: PERMITS REQUIRED, APPLICATION:
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, school district or State governing body
desiring to make connection of a single building, house or property used for
human occupancy, employment or recreation, to the sewer dedicated to the
Village shall make application to the Superintendent of Public Works in charge
of said sewer system on forms to be furnished by the Village. If the tenant
desires to connect to the sewer from the premises of the landlord, the latter
or his authorized agent, shall endorse his approval on said application. The
application shall, on the face or back thereof, in the places provided for the
same, state the character of the building or buildings to be drained; the exact
legal description of the property, together with the street number and the
names of all the streets bordering the block in which the building is located,
together with a sketch of the location of the connecting line running to the
main sewer line. Said application shall be referred to the Superintendent of
Public Works for his approval or disapproval and if said application is
approved, he shall issue a permit for the tap to be made in accordance with the
provisions hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, school district or State governing body
desiring to construct a collecting sewer and/or septic tank which is to
discharge into a sewer dedicated to or under the control of the Village shall
submit plans and specifications for the collecting sewer and/or septic tank
prepared by a registered professional engineer and approved by the State
Environmental Protection Agency to the Village prior to the construction of the
collecting sewer and/or septic tank, or any connection thereto for the issuance
of a permit to construct the same. The design of the septic tank shall comply
with the recommendations of the latest edition of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code. The application shall contain the
information required in subsection (A) of this Section and in addition shall
contain a legal description of the proposed septic tank, collecting sewer line
and the street or right of way proposed to be dedicated to the Village. The
application shall propose a collecting sewer and/or septic tank which is to be
constructed according to the requirements of this Chapter.
   (C)   The application for a single connection and the application for
approval of plans and specifications of a collecting sewer and/or septic tank
shall be accompanied by all the fees set forth in this Chapter, to be paid for
the sewer connections contemplated by the applications. Fees for applications
not approved shall be returned to the applicant.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer, septic tank or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   (E)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with Federal Standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent State and local standards.
   (F)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: a) for
residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the Village (reference Appendix #2
to the Ordinance codified as this Chapter). The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works. The industry,
as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics and types of activity.
   (G)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
and/or septic tank shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
7-6-5: COSTS; INDEMNIFICATION:
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer and/or septic tank shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the Village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer and/or septic tank.
7-6-6: SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED; USE OF OLD SEWERS:
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer and septic tank shall be
provided for every building, except that where one building stands at the rear
of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent of Public
Works, to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
7-6-7: CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Village. In the absence of Code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with subsection 7-6-4(B) of this Chapter and discharged
to the building sewer. No water-operated sewage ejector shall be used. The
minimum depth of cover shall be three and one-half feet (31/2') to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and
in straight alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made
only with properly curved pipe and fittings, unless the break in the line is
made at a manhole facilitating servicing.
   (C)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a septic tank or a public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building 1  and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials must be approved by the Commissioner of Public Health
and Safety before installation.
   (E)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent of Public Works when the building sewer and septic tank is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works or his
representative.
   (F)   All excavations for building sewer and septic tank installation shall
be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public
from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed
in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
Village.
   (G)   Connections with any sewer shall be made only at manholes or other
such junctions as may be provided or designated by the permit, and then only in
such manner as directed. The connection of a building sewer shall be made in
"Y" or "T" branch, if such branch is available. In the absence of such
connection stub, a neat hole may be cut into the sewer to receive a building
sewer, which entry in a downstream direction at an angle no greater than ninety
degrees (90°) to the sewer. A saddle shall be used to make the connection, the
spigot end not to extend beyond the inner surface of such sewer. The center
line of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or a
higher level than the center line of the sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and watertight, by encasement in concrete,
if necessary. Other fittings may be used for the connection only when approved
by the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (H)   All sanitary sewers constructed to be connected to the Village sewer
system as well as building sewer connections shall be constructed of the
following materials: cast iron, plain or reinforced concrete pipe, vitrified
clay pipe, cement asbestos pipe or plastic pipe. All pipe must meet the
requirements of the American Society for Testing Materials, current edition.
   (I)   The size and slope of building sewers shall be subject to the approval
of the Superintendent of Public Works. If six inch (6") pipe is used, the slope
shall not be less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot. If four inch (4") or
five inch (5") pipe is used, the slope shall not be less than one-fourth inch
(1/4") per foot. Any pipe laid longitudinally in public streets, alleys or
easements which could connect more than one building sewer or could be extended
to connect more than one building sewer and all connecting sewers for which
plans and specifications are presented for approval shall not be less than
eight inches (8") in diameter, shall be laid on a minimum grade of four feet
(4') per one thousand feet (1,000') and shall be constructed to a maximum depth
to permit further extension thereto. Collecting sewers shall be extended beyond
the last house to be served and end at the most distant property line of the
last house. Building sewers shall be installed or repaired by a licensed
plumber, or have the installation or repair directly supervised by a licensed
plumber.
   (J)   Joints on all buildings' sewers and on any sewers laid longitudinally
in public streets, alleys or easements up to and including eighteen inch (18")
diameter shall be made permanently watertight by one of the following methods:
      1.   Cast iron pipe shall be joined with lead and jute unless the cast
iron pipe is specifically designed to be installed with mechanical joints or
rubber joints.
      2.   Concrete pipe shall be fitted with manufactured rubber type gaskets.
Rubber type gasket joints shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and shall provide a watertight joint.
      3.   Vitrified clay pipe shall be fitted with factory made joints of
resilient material. The joint shall be made in accordance with manufacturer's
instructions and shall provide a watertight joint.
      4.   If asbestos cement pipe or plastic pipe is used, the joints shall be
made in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations with the proper
fittings and rubber rings.
      5.   Joints between different types of pipe shall be made with jute and
bituminous jointing material. Bituminous material for such joints shall not
soften sufficiently to destroy the effectiveness of the joints when subjected
to a temperature of one hundred sixty degrees Fahrenheit (160°F), nor be
soluble in any wastes carried by the sewer system. The superintendent of public
works may, at his discretion, require the additional protection of a concrete
envelope on such joints. When reducing from a six inch (6") to a four inch (4")
or five inch (5") connection, proper reducing fittings shall be used.
      6.   All house connections shall be laid on firm, undisturbed soil with
the barrel of the pipe resting on the shaped bottom of the trench. A small
excavation shall be made at the joint so as to permit proper joining of the
pipe and to eliminate bridging from joint to joint, where excess excavation has
been made, it shall be backfilled to proper grade with pit run sand for proper
bedding of the pipe. (Ord. 9-16-85)
   (K)   An access extension riser shall be constructed on all septic tanks
providing at grade access to facilitate inspection and cleaning. The riser
shall be two feet (2') in diameter and made of concrete or plastic of suitable
strength. The ring and lid shall be made of cast iron. (Ord. 02-18-02-1, 2-18-
2002)
   (L)   All new construction tributary to the combined sewer system shall be
designed to minimize or delay the inflow of the storm water contribution from
said new construction to the combined sewer system. Prior to any construction,
the owner of the premises upon which said construction is proposed to take
place shall submit, or cause to be submitted, to the village for approval, a
plan depicting how the owner proposes to accomplish said requirement. Review by
the village and approval on behalf of the village shall be accomplished by the
sewer superintendent or his/her designee.
   (M)   Any inflow sources, i.e., foundation drains, downspouts, or other such
sources which are connected to a combined sewer shall be disconnected from said
combined sewer and connected to separate storm sewer at such time as said storm
sewer is made available to the property with the inflow source connection. The
disconnection of the inflow source(s) shall be made within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the issuance date of said notice from the village to property
owner to make said disconnection. "Made available" is defined herein as a
condition in which a separate storm sewer has been installed and made
operational within a village right of way that is contiguous with said
property.
   (N)   The domestic waste connection, for all new buildings and when
connected to a combined sewer, shall be constructed to handle only domestic
waste from the building. All inflow sources, i.e., foundation drains,
downspouts, or other such sources, shall be connected to a separate inflow
connection. At such time as a separate storm sewer is made available to the
property, the property owner shall disconnect the inflow connection from the
combined sewer and connect it to the separate storm sewer, entirely at the
expense of the property owner. (Ord. 05-05-16-01, 5-16-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 1 of this Code.
7-6-8: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
All boulevards, existing utilities, sidewalks, streets and seeded areas shall
be left in as good a condition as they were prior to the start of any sewer
construction and shall be maintained for a period of one year from the date of
connection. Sand or pit run gravel backfill shall be used under all paved
areas. (Ord. 9-16-85)
7-6-9: CONNECTION FEES:
   (A)   The connection fee for the connection of any sewer serving a
residential property or a class 1 commercial property shall be three thousand
seven hundred fifty dollars ($3,750.00). In the event the property stated above
is multi-family property or a multiple class 1 commercial property an
additional one thousand eight hundred seventy five dollars ($1,875.00) shall be
paid as additional connection fee(s) for each such residential or commercial
unit being served upon the property.
   (B)   The connection fee for any collecting sewer built to plans set forth
in subsection
7-6-4(B) of this chapter shall be three thousand seven hundred fifty dollars
($3,750.00) and a like sum for each unit or subunit connection.
   (C)   For class 2 and class 3 commercial property the connection fee shall
be three thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($3,750.00) per connection or
unit being served thereby.
   (D)   For industrial property the connection fee shall be three thousand
seven hundred fifty dollars ($3,750.00) per connection or unit being served
thereby.
   (E)   All classes of property set forth above shall be subject to an
inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per connection inspection
performed by the village or its designated inspection agent.
   (F)   All sections of chapter 3 of this title in conflict with the
connection fees and inspection fees set forth in this section are hereby
amended to provide for the connection fees and inspection fees set forth in
this section. (Ord. 04-12-6-1, 12-6-2004)
7-6-10: CONTROL OF WASTES:
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 9-16-85)
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the superintendent of public works. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
superintendent of public works, to a storm sewer or natural outlet. (Ord. O-3-
16-1, 3-7-2016)
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent of public works that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the superintendent of public works shall give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by the regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      3.   Any garbage of any kind. The installation of a garbage grinder on
any line discharging to a public sewer is prohibited 1 .
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village board of trustees for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village board of trustees as necessary after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village board of trustees
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five-tenths
(9.5).
      9.   The admission into the sewers of any waters or wastes having: a)
BOD5 greater than seventy (70) parts per million by weight; or b) containing
more than one hundred twenty (120) parts per million by weight of suspended
solids; or c) containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described heretofore in this section; or d) having an average daily flow
greater than two percent (2%) of the average daily sewage flow of the village,
shall be subject to the review and the approval of the board of trustees of the
village. Where necessary in the opinion of the board of trustees, the owner
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: a) reduce the BOD5 to seventy (70) parts per million and the suspended
solids to one hundred twenty (120) parts per million by weight; or b) reduce
objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in this section; or c) control the quantities and rates of
discharge of such waters or wastes. Construction of such facilities shall not
be commenced until plans therefor have been submitted to and the written
approval of such plans has been obtained from the village board of trustees.
      10.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the board of trustees in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
      11.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the board of trustees in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
      12.   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      13.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection (D) of this section and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA
rules and regulations, subchapter D, water programs part 128 - pretreatment
standards, "Federal Register" volume 38, no. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973,
and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the superintendent of
public works, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent of public works may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of subsection
7-6-14(C) of this chapter.
If the superintendent of public works permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent of public works and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord.
9-16-85)
   (F)   The village is authorized to assure that impacts on water quality from
discharges form combined sewer overflows that receive nondomestic waste are
minimized. The village is further authorized to determine which nondomestic
wastewater discharges are tributary to any combined sewer overflows and the
village may, at its discretion, review and modify these provisions to control
pollutants sourced from said combined sewer overflows. (Ord. 05-05-16-01, 5-16-
2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also the provisions of section
  6-2-12 of this code.
7-6-11: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
superintendent of public works they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent of public works and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. (Ord. 9-16-85)
7-6-12: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT, FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 9-16-85)
7-6-13: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when required
by the board of trustees of the village, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent of
public works. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord.
9-16-85)
7-6-14: TESTING AND SAMPLES:
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, types and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be stipulated by the village, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (C)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs
are determined from periodic grab samples.
7-6-15: SPECIAL AGREEMENT OR ARRANGEMENT:
No statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the Village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with
Section
7-6-2 of this Chapter by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system.
7-6-16: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
7-6-17: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Works and other duly authorized employees
of the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. The Superintendent of Public Works or his
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection (A) of this Section, the Superintendent of Public Works or duly
authorized employees of the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the Village employees and the
Village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
Village employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in Section
7-6-13.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Works and other duly authorized employees
of the Village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the Village holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
7-6-18: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this Chapter,
except Section
7-6-16, shall be served by the Village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The Village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this Chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection (A) of this Section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
become liable to the Village by reason of such violation. Where damage or
injury to any public sewer or any building or equipment forming a part of the
sewer system results from a violation, the violation shall be the basis for
enforcing restitution for such damage or injury.
   (D)   The Village shall have the right to disconnect any sewer tile from the
sewer system upon the nonpayment of fees, after the same shall be in default
for a period of thirty (30) days and the Village shall not be responsible for
any damage to said connection or conditions caused by said disconnection. (Ord.
9-16-85)
TITLE 8
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Rules Of The Road   1
Recreational Vehicles   2
Parking Regulations   3
Golf Carts   4
CHAPTER 1
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
8-1-1: Illinois Motor Vehicle Code Adopted
8-1-2: Driving Rules
8-1-3: Definitions Adopted
8-1-4: Penalty
8-1-5: Size, Weight And Load Of Vehicles
8-1-1: ILLINOIS MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
For the purpose of regulating and controlling traffic within the village, there
is hereby adopted by reference the provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., in its entirety, as heretofore
enacted or hereafter amended, and the same are hereby adopted as ordinance
provisions of the village. (Ord. 11-12-19-1, 12-19-2011)
8-1-2: DRIVING RULES:
   (A)   Careless Driving: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the
village in a careless manner so as to interfere with the safe or lawful
operation of any other vehicle or so as to interfere with or to injure, damage
or endanger persons or property engaged in the lawful use of the street.
   (B)   Street Racing Unlawful: No person shall be a participant in street
racing as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-506.
   (C)   Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officers: Any driver or operator
of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a
police officer directing such driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a
stop, wilfully fails to or refuses to obey such direction, increases his speed,
extinguishes his lights or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer, is
guilty of a violation of this chapter. The signal given by the police officer
may be by hand, voice, siren, or red or blue light. (Ord., 4-1-1996)
8-1-3: DEFINITIONS ADOPTED:
The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq.,
entitled "title and definitions", as passed, approved and amended by the
Illinois general assembly is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord.,
4-1-1996)
8-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of: a speeding violation between one and twenty nine (29)
miles per hour over the speed limit, disobeying a stop sign, illegal
transportation of alcohol, improper lane usage, following too closely, tinted
windows or loud exhaust in violation of any section of this chapter shall be
fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for any one offense. Any person convicted of
failure to have valid insurance or speeding over thirty (30) miles per hour
over the speed limit shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for any one offense.
Any person convicted of a violation of any other section of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for any one offense. In addition to any fines, any
person convicted of a violation of any section of this chapter may be
incarcerated in the Kankakee County Jail for a period not to exceed three
hundred sixty four (364) days. (Ord. 06-19-06-6, 6-19-2006)
8-1-5: SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD OF VEHICLES:
   (A)   In addition to all other sections of the state vehicle code heretofore
adopted, chapter 15 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/15-101 et seq., as passed, approved, and amended by the Illinois
general assembly is hereby adopted by the village.
   (B)   Any scales used by any village police officer in the enforcement of
this section, and any police officer who issues citations for any violation of
this section, shall be properly certified as required by chapter 15 of the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 11-05-02-1, 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 2
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Operation Restricted
8-2-3: Manner Of Operation
8-2-4: All-Terrain Vehicles
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
OPERATE: To ride in or on and to be in control of a recreational vehicle.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: For the purposes of this chapter, shall mean any three-
wheeled vehicle, any motor bike not licensed for use on public streets, any
snowmobile or any other vehicle used strictly for recreational purposes. (1975
Code; amd. per correspondence dated 4-4-1996)
8-2-2: OPERATION RESTRICTED:
No person shall operate a recreational vehicle upon any portion of any public
property owned and operated by the village and no person shall operate such
recreational vehicles within the right of way for any street, avenue, alley or
sidewalk within the village except as follows:
   (A)   A recreational vehicle may make a direct crossing of a street or
highway provided the crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety
degrees (90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing, it is brought to a complete
stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway and the
driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which constitutes an
immediate hazard.
   (B)   A snowmobile may be operated upon the streets and avenues within the
village in an emergency during the period of time when and at locations where
snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobiles impractical.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles may be operated upon the alleys of the village
for purposes of going to and from the village limits and where no alley is
available for such purposes, they may be operated upon the boulevards of the
village for such purpose. (1975 Code; amd. per correspondence dated 4-4-1996)
8-2-3: MANNER OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any recreational
vehicle in the following unsafe or harassing ways:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (B)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto;
   (C)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit
forming drugs;
   (D)   Without a lighted head and tail light when required for safety;
   (E)   In any park or other public area in a manner which will destroy trees,
shrubs, flowers or other plantings or property.
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1975 Code; amd. per correspondence dated 4-4-1996)
8-2-4: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
No all-terrain vehicles as defined by section 1-101.8 of the Illinois vehicle
code, or off highway motorcycles as defined by section 1-153.1 of the Illinois
vehicle code, shall be driven or operated on any roadway in the village of
Grant Park. (Ord. 12-3-19-1, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Standing, Stopping Or Parking; Where Prohibited
8-3-2: Parking And Storage Shall Not Block Right-Of-Way
8-3-3: All Night Parking
8-3-4: Illegally Parked Vehicles; Towing
8-3-5: Parking During Snowfall Removal
8-3-6: Signs
8-3-7: Prima Facie Proof
8-3-1: STANDING, STOPPING OR PARKING; WHERE PROHIBITED:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      2.   On a sidewalk;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone
indicated by signs or yellow markings;
      6.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      7.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking, standing or
stopping.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      3.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      4.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance. (Ord. 10-05-17-3, 5-17-2010)
8-3-2: PARKING AND STORAGE SHALL NOT BLOCK RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with the law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, no person shall:
   (A)   Park any vehicle on any public right-of-way where such vehicle would
block any area within six feet (6') of the center of said public right-of-way.
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "vehicle" shall include but not be
limited to passenger vehicles, trucks, campers, and trailers.
   (B)   Place, store, or set any object in any public right-of-way where such
object would block any area within six feet (6') of the center of said public
right-of-way.
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "object" shall include but not be
limited to dumpsters, trash and recycle bins, and all kinds of indoor and
outdoor furniture. (Ord. O-3-17-6, 4-3-2017)
8-3-3: ALL NIGHT PARKING:
   (A)   Restricted Areas: No person shall park any vehicle on any of the
following streets, between the hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and five
thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. on any day, except physicians on emergency calls or
persons who reside immediately adjacent thereto:
South Main Street from Dixie Highway to Taylor Street.
West Taylor Street from South Main Street to Maple Street. (Ord. 10-05-17-3, 5-
17-2010; amd. Ord. O-3-17-6, 4-3-2017)
8-3-4: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; TOWING:
The Police Department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to remove
and tow away or have removed and towed away by a commercial towing service, any
such car or other vehicle parked in violation of section
8-3-1 and/or
8-3-3 of this chapter. Vehicles so towed away for illegal parking shall be
stored in a safe place and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such
vehicle upon payment of costs of towing and storage. (Ord. 10-05-17-3, 5-17-
2010; amd. Ord. O-3-17-6, 4-3-2017)
8-3-5: PARKING DURING SNOWFALL REMOVAL:
   (A)   After a snowfall accumulation of more than two inches (2") has
occurred within any one (1) 24-hour period, no person shall park or cause to be
parked any vehicle upon the following streets until such time as the snowfall
accumulation has been cleared as determined by the Village President:
East Taylor Street from Main Street to Hamilton Street.
North Main Street from Taylor Street to Mosier Street.
South Main Street from Dixie Highway to Taylor Street.
West Taylor Street from Main Street to Maple Street.
   (B)   In the event that any vehicle is so illegally parked after the
requisite snowfall accumulation, the police shall, upon finding any such
vehicle in violation, post a sign on said vehicle indicating the violation and
requiring it to be moved within twenty four (24) hours. If such vehicle is not
removed within twenty four (24) hours so as to be in compliance with this
section, the police shall cause the vehicle to be towed and the cost of towing
shall be paid by the owner thereof in addition to any fine otherwise imposed by
this section. (Ord. 10-05-17-3, 5-17-2010; amd. Ord. O-3-17-6, 4-3-2017; Ord.
O-5-22-1, 6-6-2022)
8-3-6: SIGNS:
The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the Village President and
Village Board, shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 10-
05-17-3, 5-17-2010; amd. Ord. O-3-17-6, 4-3-2017)
8-3-7: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that any car or other vehicle which is illegally parked is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the automobile at the time of such parking. (Ord. 10-05-17-3,
5-17-2010; amd. Ord. O-3-17-6, 4-3-2017)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Operation Of Golf Carts And Utility Vehicles
8-4-3: Vehicle Requirements
8-4-4: Mandatory Insurance
8-4-5: Penalty
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                 A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose
                 of transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or
                 maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf,
GOLF CART:       supervising the play of golf or maintaining the condition of
                 the grounds on a public or private golf course and which is
                 capable of attaining a speed of not more than twenty-five (25)
                 miles per hour.
                 The entire right of way width between the curb boundary lines,
                 shoulder, or swale of public property when any part thereof is
                 open to the use of the public for purposes of pedestrian,
STREET:          bicycle, or vehicular travel, including parking lots and
                 parking areas. The meaning of "street" specifically excludes
                 any roads owned and/or operated by the State of Illinois or
                 Kankakee County.
                 Any all-terrain vehicle used primarily for work or utility
                 functions. In order to qualify for use under this Chapter, a
                 utility vehicle must be equipped with working seat belts,
UTILITY VEHICLE: steering wheels, and other required equipment. Examples of
                 utility vehicles include, but are not limited to, John Deere
                 Gators, Kawasaki Mules, Polaris Rangers, Yamaha Rhinos, and
                 Honda Big Reds. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-5-2014; amd. Ord. O-4-19-1,
                 4-1-2019; Ord. O-2-21-2, 3-1-2021)
 
8-4-2: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, it shall be lawful for a person
to drive or operate a golf cart or utility vehicle upon any street in the
Village of Grant Park.
   (A)   No golf cart or utility vehicle shall be driven or operated upon any
street in the Village of Grant Park with a speed limit greater than twenty (20)
miles per hour. Provided, however, that a golf cart or utility vehicle may
cross a street at an intersection where the street to be crossed has a posted
speed limit of more than twenty (20) miles per hour.
   (B)   No person shall drive or operate any golf cart or utility vehicle upon
any street in the Village of Grant Park without a valid Illinois driver's
license issued in his or her name by the Illinois secretary of state.
   (C)   No golf cart or utility vehicle shall be driven or operated on any
street not exclusively under the jurisdiction of the Village of Grant Park
unless the Village and the unit of local government with concurrent
jurisdiction authorizes the same. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-5-2014; amd. Ord. O-4-19-1,
4-1-2019; Ord. O-2-21-2, 3-1-2021)
8-4-3: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   No golf cart or utility vehicle may be operated on any street in the
Village of Grant Park, unless, at a minimum, it has the following: brakes, a
steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectors in the front and
rear, a "slow moving" emblem (as required of other vehicles in section 12-709
of the Illinois vehicle code) on the rear of the golf cart or utility vehicle,
a headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the front, a taillamp that emits a red light visible from at
least one hundred feet (100') to the rear, brake lights and turn signals. All
golf carts and utility vehicles shall have their headlights and taillamps
illuminated when driven or operated upon any street in the Village of Grant
Park as required by section 12-201 of the Illinois vehicle code; and
   (B)   No golf cart or utility vehicle may be operated on any street in the
Village of Grant Park unless it has been inspected by the police department of
the Village of Grant Park and found to comply with the Illinois vehicle code,
as applicable, and this Chapter, The owner of the golf cart or utility vehicle
shall pay a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the initial inspection of the
golf cart or utility vehicle. If, after the initial inspection of the golf cart
or utility vehicle, it is determined that the golf cart or utility vehicle
complies with the Illinois vehicle code, as applicable, and this Chapter, the
Village police department shall issue a registration number and a Village
sticker to the golf cart or utility vehicle's owner. The owner of the golf cart
or utility vehicle must affix the Village sticker to the golf cart or utility
vehicle in a conspicuous location. An annual inspection of the golf cart or
utility vehicle must be completed in the month of May at the Village police
department. The owner of the golf cart or utility vehicle shall pay a fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00) for the annual inspection. Upon successful completion
of the annual inspection, the Village police department shall issue a Village
sticker confirming the annual inspection to the vehicle's owner. The owner must
then affix the Village sticker confirming the annual inspection to the golf
cart or utility vehicle in a conspicuous location. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-5-2014;
amd. Ord. O-4-19-1, 4-1-2019; Ord. O-2-21-2, 3-1-2021; Ord. O-3-21-2, 3-1-2021)
8-4-4: MANDATORY INSURANCE:
Any person who operates a golf cart or utility vehicle on any street within the
Village shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under Article
VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-5-2014; amd.
Ord. O-4-19-1, 4-1-2019; Ord. O-2-21-2, 3-1-2021)
8-4-5: PENALTY:
   (A)   Persons found to be in violation of any provision of this Chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and
not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), or the applicable fine
as set forth by the state of Illinois or county of Kankakee.
   (B)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart or
utility vehicle on a street within the Village while under the influence of
alcohol or any other drug or drugs is subject to sections 11-500 through 11-502
of the Illinois vehicle code, and such other statutes as may apply. (Ord. 2014-
04, 5-5-2014; amd. Ord. O-4-19-1, 4-1-2019; Ord. O-2-21-2, 3-1-2021)
TITLE 9
ZONING
Purpose And Interpretation   1
Rules And Definitions   2
General Provisions   3
Planned Unit Developments   4
Mobile Home Parks   5
Zoning Districts And Map   6
Residential Districts   7
E-1 Estate Residential District   7A
R-1 Single-Family Residential District   7B
R-2 Two-Family Attached Residential District   7C
R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District   7D
Commercial Districts   8
C-1 Downtown Commercial District   8A
C-2 Commercial District   8B
Industrial Districts   9
I-1 Light Industrial District   9A
I-2 Heavy Industrial District   9B
Performance Standards   9C
Specialty Districts   10
A-1 Agricultural District   10A
OS-1 Open Space District   10B
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses   11
Off Street Parking And Loading   12
Signs   13
Administration And Enforcement   14
Wind Energy Conversion Systems   15
Photovoltaic Systems   16
Medical Cannabis Cultivation And Dispensaries   17
Wireless Communications Facilities   18
School Transition Fees   19
Regulation Of And Application For Small Wireless Facilities    20
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Authority
9-1-4: Interpretation
9-1-5: Separability
9-1-6: Scope Of Regulations
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title is a comprehensive amendment to the Grant Park zoning ordinance and
its subsequent amendments, and shall be known and may be cited as the GRANT
PARK ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is adopted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-1,
1996, for the following purposes:
   (A)   Promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare
of the present and future inhabitants of the Village by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for adherence to land use patterns deemed to
provide for development in the best interest of the entire Village as
indicated, explained and substantiated in the official plans of the Village and
requiring a division into zones or areas for such adherence.
      2.   Protecting ground water supplies by controlling inappropriate land
uses where soils and geological characteristics present the possibility of
diminishing supplies or contamination by pollutants.
      3.   Requiring provisions of adequate open space for sunlight, clean air,
privacy, noise abatement, recreation, convenience of access to property,
pedestrian circulation, and safe sight distances for operation of motor
vehicles.
      4.   Requiring provisions to prevent undue concentration of population
and structures within each zoning area.
      5.   Requiring provisions for adequate public services, facilities and
utilities such as transportation ways, water supply, sewage disposal, schools,
police and fire protection, open spaces and parks.
      6.   Requiring provisions for adequate control, operation and maintenance
of essential facilities necessary for public use.
      7.   Promoting use of land (under a time frame) consistent with the
ability of the Village to furnish adequate public services and requirements.
      8.   Providing for the opportunity to create a variety of housing
opportunities and lifestyles, employment, industrial and commercial
enterprises.
      9.   Eliminating nonconforming uses of land, buildings and structures
which adversely affect the zoned area.
      10.   Prohibiting the intrusion of incompatible uses into residential,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational and other necessary natural
and manmade areas.
   (B)   Conserve and enhance the character, stability and values of property
throughout the Village by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for coordinated and harmonious land uses.
      2.   Requiring provisions for promoting adherence to land use patterns
deemed to provide for development in the best interest of the entire Village.
      3.   Requiring adherence to building structure standards, which also
includes design, site plan, signage, lighting and landscape review.
      4.   Requiring provisions to regulate the use of land and buildings in
order to establish and conserve neighborhoods, while preventing blights and
slums.
      5.   Encouraging the preservation of areas of historical and
architectural significance.
      6.   Encouraging the aesthetic use of land and buildings.
   (C)   Lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and highways of the
Village by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for safe and adequate circulation of motor
vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians, including adequate open space for safe
line of sight distances.
      2.   Requiring provisions for orderly and functional management of land
development and use.
      3.   Requiring the off street parking of motor vehicles and loading and
unloading of commercial vehicles.
   (D)   Lessen or avoid the perils to persons and damage to property resulting
from natural or manmade hazards in each zoning area by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for controlling development within floodplains
or areas historically known to flood.
      2.   Requiring provisions for storm or floodwater runoff through
drainage, curbing, detention, retention and sediment and erosion control.
      3.   Requiring provisions to isolate or control the location of
unavoidable nuisance producing uses such as fire, explosion, noxious fumes and
noise.
The standards and requirements contained in this title, and the district
mapping reflected on the Grant Park zoning district map, are intended to
implement the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan for the Village of Grant
Park. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-1-3: AUTHORITY:
In order to ensure that the above purposes are realized, the Village has,
pursuant to the State of Illinois Compiled Statutes, the power to:
   (A)   Regulate and restrict the location and use of buildings, structures
and land.
   (B)   Regulate and restrict the intensity of use.
   (C)   Establish building or setback lines on or along any street, traffic
way, drive, parkway or storm or floodwater runoff channel or basin.
   (D)   Divide the entire Village into zoning districts of such numbers,
shapes, areas and such different classes, according to the use of land and
building, the intensity of use (including the height of buildings and
structures and surrounding open space) and other classification as may be
deemed best suited to carry out the purpose.
   (E)   Prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the character
of such districts.
   (F)   Prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures which would result in avoiding the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
   (A)   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion and protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   (B)   Conflicting Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of
this title upon the: 1) use of land or building; 2) bulk of buildings; 3) floor
area requirements; 4) lot area requirements; 5) yard requirements; 6) other
requirements, are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by other provisions of this title, or of any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
govern.
   (C)   Existing Agreements: This title is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or other private agreement; provided that where the
regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants or other private agreements, the
requirements of this title shall govern.
   (D)   Existing Violations: No building, structure or use, not lawfully
existing at the time of the adoption of this title, shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this title, and to the extent that,
and in any manner that, said unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict
with the requirements of this title, said building, structure or use remains
unlawful hereunder. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby to be the intention of the Village President and Board of Trustees
that the several provisions of this title are separable, in accordance with the
following:
   (A)   Provisions Of Title: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge provisions of this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect
any other provision of this title not specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   Property Application: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provisions of this title to a particular
property, building or other structure, such adjustment shall not affect the
application of said provision to any other property, building or structure not
specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-1-6: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
It is hereby declared that the provisions of this title shall apply to all
properties as hereinafter specifically provided:
   (A)   New Uses: No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered,
and no building, structure or land shall hereafter be used, occupied or
arranged or designed for use or occupancy, nor shall any excavating or grading
be commenced in connection with any of the above matters, except as permitted
by the regulations herein which are applicable to the zoning district in which
such building, structure or land is located.
   (B)   Existing Uses: Except as otherwise provided, all structural
alterations or relocations of existing building occurring hereafter, and all
enlargements of or additions to existing uses occurring hereafter, shall be
subject to all regulations herein which are applicable to the zoning district
in which such buildings, uses or land shall be located.
   (C)   Existing Special Uses: Where a structure and use thereof of land
lawfully exists on the effective date of this title, and is classified by this
title as a special use in the district where it is located, such use for that
particular structure shall continue to be considered a lawful special use. A
special use permit issued in accordance with procedures herein set forth shall
be required only for any expansion or major alteration of such existing legal
special use. If the special use ceases for a period of more than six (6)
months, the special use permit shall be void and the special use may not again
be started.
   (D)   Nonconforming Uses: Any lawful building, structure or use existing at
the time of enactment of these zoning provisions may be continued, even though
such building, structure or use does not conform to the provisions herein for
the district in which it is located, and whenever a district shall be changed
hereafter, then the existing lawful use may be continued, subject to the
provisions of chapter 11 of this title. Any nonconforming uses at the time of
the adoption of this title which are identified herein as specific uses that
must be brought into compliance will not be allowed to continue past the time
frame specified for compliance.
   (E)   Individual Lots Of Record: An individual lot of record in existence at
the time of the adoption of this title which can fulfill at least eighty
percent (80%) of the required lot area and at least eighty percent (80%) of the
required lot width, may be developed for a use permitted within the zoning
district in which the lot is located, provided that it can be developed in full
compliance with the yard and setback requirements of this title. Otherwise, an
individual lot of record in existence at the time of the adoption of this
title, which is unable to meet the requirements of this title as to lot
coverage, lot area, lot width and yard requirements can be developed only after
a variance is granted by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Contiguous Parcels: Except as provided in chapter 11 of this title,
when two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area and
dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the district
in which they are located, are contiguous and are held in one ownership, at the
time or subsequent to the adoption of this title or amendment, they shall be
used as one zoning lot for such use, unless said parcels meet at least eighty
percent (80%) of the required lot width and lot area as described in this
title, in which case, the parcels may be developed pursuant to the requirements
of subsection (E) of this section.
   (G)   Special Permits: Where the Code Enforcement Officer has issued a
special use permit, a temporary use permit, or a permit for a variance pursuant
to the provisions of this title, such permit shall become null and void unless
work thereon is substantially under way within six (6) months of the date of
the issuance of such permit by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (H)   Access: No land shall be used for public motor vehicle access to any
other lot or land unless that portion of the land has been officially approved
as a street, public or private, by the proper authorities. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-
18-2017)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: General
9-2-2: Rules Of Word Construction
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-1: GENERAL:
The rules and definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed and
applied in the interpretation of all other sections herein, except when the
context clearly indicates otherwise. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-2-2: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used
in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
   (B)   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word "may" is permissive.
   (D)   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "parcel", the word
"building" includes all other structures or improvements of every kind,
regardless of similarity to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include
the phrases "arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for",
and "occupied for".
   (E)   The word "person" includes firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   (F)   The masculine gender includes feminine and neuter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-
18-2017)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this title, shall have the meanings
set forth, except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms not
defined shall have the meanings indicated by the common dictionary definition.
ABATEMENT: Any action taken to reduce, relieve, or suppress another continuing
action.
ABUTTING: To have a common property line or district line.
ACCEPT: To acknowledge receipt of information presented to a commission. Here
the information is merely taken as given; it is neither verified nor validated.
ACCESS: Freedom of approach, action, or communication.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: One which:
   (A)   In the case of a building, is a detached structure; and
   (B)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
and
   (C)   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building
or principal use served; and
   (D)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of
the principal building or principal use served; and
   (E)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
potential use served with the single exception of such accessory off street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
ACREAGE, GROSS: The overall total area of real property.
ACREAGE, NET: The remaining areas after all deductions are made, with
deductions including streets, easements for access, detention facilities,
street dedications and similar areas.
ADJACENT: Lying near or in the immediate vicinity.
ADJOINING: Touching or contiguous, as distinguished from lying near.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT/ADULT ORIENTED: See section
9-3-10 of this title.
AESTHETIC: Pertaining to the impression, perception or effect created by form,
symmetry, decoration or other aspects of physical sensibility. In relation to
structures, buildings, sites or developments: the tasteful application of the
principles of beauty and harmony, especially with sensitive regard to the
character of the area or neighborhood.
AGRICULTURE: Land including necessary buildings and structures, for the raising
of soil crops or the raising of domestic animals as the principal occupation of
the residents or users thereof. It shall also include truck farming,
beekeeping, the raising of fruit and berries, and selling the products thereof,
but shall not include mechanized industrial animal farms. Agriculture shall not
include the commercial feeding of garbage to swine or other animals.
AIR RIGHTS: The rights to the space above a property, granted through common
law and extending an unlimited distance vertically above the ground.
AIRPORT: An area of land or water which is used or intended for use for the
landing and taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-
of-way, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas,
hangars and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
ALLEY: A public or private way, at the rear or side of property, permanently
reserved as a means of secondary vehicular access to abutting property.
ALTERATION: Any change, addition or modification in size, shape, character,
occupancy, or use of a building or structure.
AMEND: To improve; to change for the better by removing defects, faults, or
inappropriate or inoperable provisions.
AMUSEMENT CENTER: An establishment offering five (5) or more amusement devices,
including, but not limited to, coin operated electronic games, shooting
gallery, table games and similar recreational diversions within an enclosed
building.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A structure or portion thereof designed or used for the indoor
care, observation, or treatment of domestic animals by a registered
veterinarian.
ANNEX: To absorb by legal incorporation; to bring previously unincorporated
land into Municipal incorporation.
ANTENNA STRUCTURE: Mast, pole, tripod or tower utilized for the purposes of
either transmission or reception purposes or both.
APARTMENT: One or more rooms in an apartment building, or combination apartment
and commercial building, arranged, intended or designed or occupied as a
dwelling unit of a single-family, an individual, or a group of individuals.
APARTMENT BUILDING: A multi-family dwelling originally constructed to
accommodate three (3) or more apartments, designed with more than one dwelling
unit connected to a common corridor or entranceway.
APPAREL STORES: Stores selling new clothing for men, women or children at
retail.
APPLIANCE SALES: The sale of common household appliances such as washing
machines, television sets, power tools, radios and refrigerators, and repair of
the same types of appliances as are sold on the premises when such repairs are
incidental or accessory to their sale.
APPOINT: To designate or to assign authority for a particular function,
position or office. Appointment is wholly separate from election.
ATTACHED DWELLING: See definition of dwelling, attached.
AUTHORIZE: To empower; to give right or authority to act. It can mean to permit
(where discretion remains with the authorized agent) or to command (where the
authorized agent is mandated to perform specified actions).
AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORY STORE: Store engaged primarily in the business of selling
tires, batteries, seat covers, and other automobile accessories.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Complete repair, overhaul, and rebuilding of
automobile motors and bodies, including overall painting.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor
service to automobiles, but excluding any operation specified under the
definition of "automobile repair, major".
AUTOMOBILE SALES: The sale of new and used automobiles and other motor vehicles
in operating condition; the storage of automobiles and other motor vehicles in
operating condition and the repair and servicing of such vehicles, including
bodywork, painting, motor rebuilding, where conducted within a completely
enclosed building, but not including storage of trucks of more than five (5)
tons in weight or buses.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: That portion of property where flammable or
combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are stored only in underground tanks
and located wholly within the lot lines, and dispersed from fixed equipment
into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE WASH: A building or portion thereof, containing facilities for
washing more than two (2) automobiles, using production line methods with a
chain conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical devices; or
providing space, water and equipment for the hand washing of automobiles,
whether by the customer or the operator.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling of used motor vehicles or trailers, or the
storage, sale or dumping of dismantled or wrecked motor vehicles or their
parts.
AWNING: A roof like cover, temporary in nature, supported entirely from the
exterior wall of a building for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window
from the elements and, in some cases, overhangs a public way.
BABYSITTING: The occasional, nonregular care or scheduled, regular care of no
more than four (4) children that may or may not be related to the caregiver, in
addition to the caregiver's own children, whether this service is provided for
payment or not. Any service that must meet State specifications and obtain a
childcare license shall be considered a nursery or daycare center and not
babysitting.
BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS: Commercial banks, savings and loan
associations, brokerage offices and other similar financial institutions, but
not including pawnshops.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having more than one-half (1/2) of its
height below the average lot grade.
BILLBOARD: See definition of sign, advertising.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, bulkhead lines, or shorelines of waterways, or
corporate lines of the Village.
BOUNDARY LINE: A line on the zoning district map designating the edge of a use
district. Such a boundary line may be a boundary line for two (2) use districts
depending on the particular use districts located on each side of said line.
BUFFER STRIP OR ZONE: An area established to protect one type of land use from
the undesirable characteristics of another.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: See definition of accessory building or use.
BUILDING AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum yard
requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING, CONFORMING: Any building which complies with all the regulations of
this title and of any amendment hereto governing land use in the zoning
district in which such building is located.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by an open space on the same lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance above the average existing grade
measured to the highest point of the building.
BUILDING LINE: The line established, beyond which a building shall not extend,
but excluding open steps, terraces, cornices and other ornamental features
projecting from the walls of the building or structure.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: A building which exists upon the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title and which does not comply with the
conditions, area requirements, lot width requirements, yard requirements,
height limitations, bulk regulations or off street parking and loading
requirements of the zoning district in which said building is located by reason
of the adoption or amendment of this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which a principal use of the
lot, on which it is located, is conducted.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line parallel to the street identifying the minimum
distance between a street right-of-way or property line and the nearest
building foundation of any structure on the lot.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: A building used temporarily for the storage of
construction materials and equipment incidental and necessary to on site
permitted construction of utilities, or other community facilities, or used
temporarily in conjunction with the sale of property within a subdivision under
construction.
BULK: The term to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or structures and
location of same with respect to one another and including the following:
   (A)   Size and height of buildings.
   (B)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or to other buildings.
   (C)   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot lines, streets, or to
other buildings.
   (D)   All open spaces allocated to buildings.
   (E)   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
BULK REGULATIONS: The combination of controls establishing the maximum size of
a building and its location on the lot.
BULK STORAGE PLANT: Any place where flammable liquids of ten thousand (10,000)
gallons or more are received by tanker, pipeline, tank car or truck and are
stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by tank
trucks, pipeline, tank car or other container.
BUSINESS: The word "business" or the word "commerce" when used in this title
means the engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods, wares,
or merchandise, or maintenance or operation of offices or recreational or
amusement enterprises.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: Any zoning district designated with a C classification.
BUSINESS OR PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: The office of an engineer, doctor, dentist,
attorney, real estate broker, insurance broker, architect, or other similar
professional person, and any office used primarily for accounting,
correspondence, research, editing or administration.
CANOPY: A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other material supported by
the building or by support extending to the ground directly under the canopy
placed so as to extend outward from the building providing a protective shield
for doors, windows and other openings.
CAPACITY IN PERSONS: The maximum number of persons that can avail themselves of
the services (or goods) of an establishment, at any one time, with reasonable
comfort and safety.
CARPORT: A roofed structure open on at least two (2) sides and used for the
storage of private or pleasure type vehicles.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE (OCCUPANCY): A certificate issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer to indicate that the building, structure or improvement has
been erected, structurally altered or completed in accordance with the approved
plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: The specific inspection or tests where required have
been performed and that such tests or inspections verify compliance with the
applicable requirements of this title signed under oath and notarized.
CHANNEL: A depression formed in the topography of the earth's surface to carry
stormwater runoff through a specific area.
CIRCUMSTANCES: The factual content of a situation, including both physical and
social aspects and sometimes possible, probable, and anticipated future
circumstances.
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: A building, structure or portion thereof in which
patients who are not lodged overnight are admitted for examination and
treatment by one or more medical or dental practitioners.
CLUB: A nonprofit corporation or association of persons for the promotion of
some common purpose, including, but not limited to, literature, science,
politics and good fellowship.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: As referred to in this Code shall be the Director of
Building and Zoning.
COMMERCIAL, HEAVY: An establishment or business which generally uses open sales
yards, outside equipment storage, or outside activities that generate noise or
other impacts considered incompatible with less intense uses. Typical
businesses in this definition are lumberyards, construction specialty services,
heavy equipment suppliers or building contractors.
COMMERCIAL, LIGHT: An establishment or business which generally has retail or
wholesale sales, office uses or services that do not generate noise, or other
impacts considered incompatible with less intense uses. Typical businesses in
this definition are retail stores, offices, catering services or restaurants.
COMMERCIAL RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES: Establishments which engage in the sale
of general retail goods and accessory services. Businesses within this
definition include those which conduct sales and storage entirely within an
enclosed structure (with the exception of occasional outdoor "sidewalk"
promotions); businesses specializing in sale of either general merchandise or
convenience goods.
COMMERCIAL SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments located under
one roof, not having interior access to each individual establishment.
COMMERCIAL SHOPPING MALL: A group of commercial establishments located under
one roof and having interior access to each individual establishment.
COMPLIANCE: An enforceable and effective inducement to secure action in accord
with some legally binding regulation.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The extensively developed and evolving declaration of
purposes, policies and programs for the development of the Village.
COMPREHENSIVE ZONING: A zoning ordinance and map, dealing with all aspects of
the community development, based on sound comprehensive studies and
investigations and supporting a Master Plan for the Municipality.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use which would become harmonious or compatible with
neighboring uses through the application and maintenance of qualifying
conditions.
CONDOMINIUM: A single dwelling unit in a multiunit dwelling or structure, which
is separately owned and which may be combined with an undivided interest in the
common areas and facilities of the property.
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof which contains facilities
for living, sleeping and sanitation as required by this Code, and may include
facilities for eating and cooking for occupancy by other than a family. A
congregate residence shall be permitted to be a shelter, convent, monastery,
dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but does not include jails, hospitals,
nursing homes, hotels or lodging houses.
CONTIGUOUS: In contact, adjoining, or touching another object or item as
distinguished from being adjacent.
CONVALESCENT CENTER: A facility which is publicly or privately operated and
intended for long term patient care due to human illness or infirmity,
including the elderly and developmentally disabled, normally employing the
services of skilled and licensed practitioners, excluding hospitals.
CORNER LOT: See definition of lot, corner.
COUNTRY CLUB: A private recreational facility operated for bona fide members
paying annual dues for the use of a golf course and ancillary uses such as
restaurants (including the sale of alcoholic beverages), residential uses for
guests, managers and other employees, but not including commercially operated
driving ranges or miniature golf courses.
COURT: A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade
level on a lot and bounded on three (3) or more sides by walls of a building.
CROSSWALK: A public right-of-way located across a block to provide pedestrian
access to adjacent streets or areas.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the level
of the centerline of the street shall be considered the curb level.
DAMAGE: A loss, deterioration, or reduction of interests of persons, usually
with reference to property.
DAYCARE CENTER: A facility which exclusively provides supplemental parental
care and supervision, recreation and/or educational instruction to children or
adults during the entire or any portion of the day. See definition of nursery,
childcare.
DECIBEL: A logarithmic unit of measurement which defines the range of sound
pressure levels (Lp) between the minimum audible value at one thousand (1,000)
cps and the maximum audible value of Lp, at which effects, other than hearing,
begin to appear.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units which are allowed on an area of land,
which area of land shall be permitted to include dedicated streets contained
within the development.
DETACHED DWELLING: See definition of dwelling, detached.
DETENTION: Temporary on site restraining of stormwater.
DISTRIBUTION CENTER: See definition of warehouse, distribution center.
DISTRICT: A portion of the Village within which certain uniform regulations and
requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply under the provisions of
this title.
DOWN ZONING: A change in the zoning classification of land to a classification
permitting development that is less intensive or dense. A change in the
opposite direction is called "up zoning".
DRIVEWAY: A private access road, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed, or otherwise using or visiting the parcel in which it is
located.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A residential building which is joined to another dwelling
at one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A residential building which is entirely surrounded by open
space on the same lot.
DWELLING, DUPLEX: A single owner building designed or arranged to be occupied
by two (2) families living independently, the structure having only two (2)
dwelling units separated by a vertical party wall without openings.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-UNIT: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy
by three (3) or more families living independently in which they may or may not
share common entrances and/or other spaces. Individual dwelling units may be
owned as condominiums, or offered for rent.
DWELLING, PLANNED GROUP: Two (2) or more detached buildings used as dwelling
units located on a lot that is in single ownership having yards, courts or
facilities in common.
DWELLING, SEMIATTACHED: A residential building which is partly joined to
another at a nonliving space wall.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling unit with kitchen and sleeping
facilities, designed for occupancy by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation,
as required by this Code, for not more than one family, or a congregate
residence for six (6) or less persons.
EASEMENT: That portion of land or property reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee simple owner(s) of the property.
The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on, or above said lot or
lots.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: A public, parochial, private or charitable, or
nonprofit school, junior college, or university, other than trade or business
school, including instructional and recreational uses, with or without living
quarters, dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants, and other incidental
facilities for students, teachers, and employees.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: Any consequences to the physical, economic, cultural,
aesthetic, or social environment that affect the quality of life in general and
the subsequent utility or value of real property.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Services provided by public and private utilities necessary
for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal structure.
These services include underground, surface, or overhead gas, electrical,
steam, water, sanitary sewerage, stormwater drainage, and communication systems
and accessories thereto, such as poles, towers, weirs, drains, vaults,
culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water storage tanks, conduits,
cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, pumps, lift
stations, hydrants, etc., but not including buildings that do not need to be in
the immediate area of the uses they service.
EVASION: Action taken to elude, impair, or defeat effective compliance with a
legally binding regulation.
EXCEPTION: Within the framework of the ordinance, an unusual circumstance is
anticipated and special provisions are set forth in the ordinance text which
state that, when certain things happen, an exception can occur.
FACE: To be situated so as to have the front of a structure or building or any
aspect of a use show toward or be directly visible from a specified direction.
FACT: An event, occurrence, or circumstance that is reported with accuracy.
FAIR: To be and appear free from prejudice, favoritism, and self- interest.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage,
or adoption, or a group not to exceed eight (8) unrelated persons living
together as a single household in a dwelling unit.
FARM: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including agriculture,
floriculture, forestry, grazing of dairy animals, greenhouses, hatcheries,
horticulture, nurseries, orchards, paddocks, truck farming, viticulture, and
raising of furbearing animals and poultry.
FARM ANIMALS: Animals other than household pets that shall be permitted to,
where permitted, be kept and maintained for commercial production and sale and/
or family food production, education, or recreation. Farm animals are
identified by these categories: large animals, e.g., horses and cattle; medium
animals, e.g., sheep, goats; or small animals, e.g., rabbits, chinchillas,
chickens, turkeys, pheasants, geese, ducks and pigeons.
FARM HOMESTEAD: The building located on a farm that is the residence of the
farm owner or tenant operator.
FENCE: A freestanding structure of metal, masonry composition, wood or any
combination thereof, resting on or partially buried in the ground and rising
above ground level, and used for confinement, screening, decorative or
partition purposes.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINDING: A determination of facts; an examination of circumstances beyond
immediate appearances; the relationship between facts that enables a decision.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land area from the overflow of inland waters, or from the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source. The base
flood is the flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The elevation to which uses regulated by this title
are required to be elevated or flood proofed.
FLOOD, REGULATORY: The regulatory flood is a flood which is representative of
large floods known to have occurred generally in the area and reasonably
characteristic of what can be expected to occur on a particular stream. The
regulatory flood generally has an average frequency in the order of the 50-year
reoccurrence interval flood determined from an analysis of floods on a
particular stream and other streams in the same general region.
FLOODPLAIN: Those lands that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains are generally identified on the FIRM (flood insurance rate map).
These maps are prepared by FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency). The
floodplain is also known as the flood fringe and the SFHA (special flood hazard
area).
FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the reduction or
elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain, or SFHA, required to store and convey
the base flood. The floodway for rivers and creeks are delineated on the FBFM
(federal base flood map), prepared by FEMA. For those floodways not delineated
by the FBFM, the jurisdiction shall use the best available data from Federal,
State, and/or other sources.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Floor Area Ratio, FAR): The sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building measured from the
exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating
two (2) buildings. The "floor area of a building" shall include the basement
floor area when more than one-half (1/2) of the basement height is above the
established curb level, floor space for mechanical equipment, attic space
having headroom of seven feet ten inches (7'10"), enclosed porches, and floor
area devoted to accessory uses.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements): The
gross floor area taken from the outside walls of the building and any basement
floor area devoted to retailing activities, and floor area devoted to the
production or processing of goods or to business or professional offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area ratio of the building or other structure on
any lot is determined by dividing the floor area of such building or structure
by the area of the lot on which the building or structure is located. When more
than one building or structure is located on a lot, then the floor area ratio
is determined by dividing the total floor area of all buildings or structures
by the area of the lot, or, in the case of planned unit development, by the net
site area. The floor area ratio requirements, as set forth under each zoning
district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable for a building or
other structure (including accessory buildings) in direct ratio to the gross
area of the lot.
FOOD STORES: Stores which sell foods, fresh or frozen, and other items commonly
sold in connection therewith and including, but not limited to, stores commonly
referred to as dairy stores, delicatessens, fruit and vegetable markets,
grocery stores, health food stores, nut shops and supermarkets. Sales must be
made at retail on the premises, but not for consumption on the premises.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination. Technically, the illumination at all
points one foot (1') distance from a uniform point source of one candle power.
FREIGHT TERMINAL: See definition of truck terminal.
FRONTAGE: The width of a lot or parcel abutting a public right- of-way measured
at the front property line.
GARAGE, APARTMENT: A building with area restrictions as determined by the
zoning district it exists in, detached from the principal dwelling (which is an
apartment building) and containing parking space for multiple tenants of the
building or buildings on the premises.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or a portion of a building with area restrictions
as determined by the zoning district it exists in, either attached to or
detached from the principal dwelling, in which only private or pleasure type
motor vehicles used by the tenants of the building or buildings on the premises
are stored or kept.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building other than a private garage in which automobiles,
but not trucks, tractors, truck trailers or commercial vehicles exceeding one
and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity are parked, stored, or kept whether for a
fee or not.
GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION): The lowest point of elevation of the
existing surface of the ground, within the area between the building and a line
five feet (5') from the building.
GROSS ACRE OR ACRES: Real property containing forty three thousand five hundred
sixty (43,560) square feet or one hundred sixty (160) square rods with streets,
highways, roads, right-of- way easements.
GROUP CARE FACILITY: A facility, required to be licensed by the State, which
provides training, care, supervision, treatment and/or rehabilitation to the
aged, disabled, those convicted of crimes or those suffering the effects of
drugs or alcohol; this does not include daycare centers, family daycare homes,
foster homes, schools, hospitals, jails or prisons.
GROUP HOME: A dwelling to provide a socially dependent family environment for
developmentally or mentally disabled patients, as specified in the 1988 Fair
Housing Act amendment of the Civil Rights Act of 1968. For purposes of this
title, the definition shall not include "halfway houses", uses for the
recovering chemically dependent, prison work release programs, or any use that
does not house solely the developmentally disabled.
GROUP HOME, LARGE: A group home of nine (9) to fifteen (15) residents including
live in staff.
GROUP HOME, SMALL: A group home of eight (8) or fewer residents including live
in staff.
HARDSHIP: An unusual situation on the part of an individual property owner that
will not permit the full utilization of property that is given to others within
the community. A hardship exists only when it is not self-created or economic
in nature and when the literal interpretation of the requirements of the
ordinance would place an individual in an unusual circumstance that would deny
the right to use property for any purpose, or create an unnecessary burden,
unless relief is granted.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: See definition of building height.
HELIPORT: An area of land and/or structure or building which is used or
intended for use for the landing and taking off of helicopters and any
appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for heliport buildings or
other heliport facilities or rights-of-way, including all necessary pads,
helicopter storage and tie down areas, hangars and other necessary buildings
and open spaces.
HOME OCCUPATION: The partial use of a dwelling unit for commercial or
nonresidential uses by a resident thereof which is subordinate and incidental
to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. See section
9-3-9 of this title.
HOSPITAL: An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for
inpatients, and including as related facilities, laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities and staff offices.
HOTEL: A building, structure or portion thereof which is used as a temporary
abiding place, for remuneration, with or without meals, containing five (5) or
more guestrooms or suites and which provides customary hotel services such as
maid service, the furnishing and laundering of linen, telephone and desk
service, the use and upkeep of furniture, and which maintains a hotel register.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Dogs, cats, rabbits or birds for family use only
(noncommercial) with cages, pens, etc.
INCENTIVE: A provision within a development regulation that grants relief from
specific compliance upon condition that certain features of a proposal are
altered so as to secure some benefit, convenience, or use by the public.
INCOMBUSTIBLE: Refers to materials which do not in themselves constitute an
active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will not ignite nor
actively support combustion during an exposure for five (5) minutes at a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) shall be
designated incombustible.
INCOMPATIBLE USE: A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous, or
discordant.
INDUSTRIAL ANIMAL FARM: A mechanized farm operation, confined to a limited
amount of space, to raise animals or poultry under controlled conditions of
food, water, and exercise.
INDUSTRIAL OR RESEARCH PARK: A tract of land developed according to a Master
Site Plan for the use of a family of industries and their related commercial
uses, and that is of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect
surrounding areas and the general community and to assure a harmonious
integration into the neighborhood.
INORGANIC MATERIAL: Material made from substances composed of matter other than
plant, animal, or certain chemical compounds or carbon. Examples are metal and
glass.
INSTITUTION: An established society or corporation whether created for profit
or nonprofit.
INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS: A building or structure which is occupied by a
religious nonprofit corporation or organization and which is operated for
public or semipublic use including, but not limited to, churches, synagogues,
rectories and convents.
JUNK VEHICLE: An automobile, truck, or other motor vehicle which has been
damaged to such an extent or is in such disrepair that it cannot be operated
under its own power and will require major repairs before being made usable or
such a vehicle which does not comply with State or Village laws or ordinances.
JUNKYARD: Any parcel of land where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags, or similar
materials are brought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or
handled, including auto and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses
taking place entirely within a completely enclosed building.
JURISDICTION: As used in this Code, jurisdiction is any political subdivision
which adopts this Code for administrative regulations within its sphere of
authority.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which a combined total of four (4) or more dogs,
cats or other domestic animals or pets over six (6) months of age are kept, for
compensation or not.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any premises or portion thereof on which a combined total
of four (4) or more dogs, cats or other domestic animals or pets over six (6)
months of age are kept for the purpose of sale, or where any number of animals
are cared for in return for remuneration.
KITCHEN: Any room used, or intended or designed to be used, for cooking or the
preparation of food.
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL: A use devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products is not included
within this definition.
LABORATORY, MEDICAL: A use established for scientific experimentation, research
or testing in the field of human medicine.
LAKE: Any natural or manmade body of water surrounded by land.
LAND USE: The utilization of any piece of land whether it be lot, plat, tract,
or acreage.
LAND USE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT (GROWTH MANAGEMENT): The use by a community of
a wide range of techniques in combination to permit it to determine its own
amount, type, and rate of growth and to channel it into designated areas.
LANDSCAPING: The finishing and adornment of unpaved yard areas. Materials and
treatment generally include naturally growing elements such as grass, trees,
shrubs and flowers. This treatment shall be permitted also to include the use
of logs, rocks, fountains, water features, walkways, or contouring of the
earth.
LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT, OUTDOOR: Pole and wire or line used to suspend items to
facilitate drying.
LEGAL: Permitted by, conforming to, or required by law, or with respect to
action that is neither forbidden nor restricted by law.
LIQUOR STORE, PACKAGE: Any establishment selling beer, wine or alcoholic liquor
at retail to the general public in sealed bottles or other sealed containers
for consumption or use away from the premises where paid establishment is
located.
LIVESTOCK: Includes, but is not limited to, horses, bovine animals, sheep,
goats, swine, reindeer, donkeys, mules and any other hoofed animals.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open asphalt or concrete surfaced
area of land, other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is
for the standing, loading, and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and
trailers, to avoid undue interference with the public use of the streets and
alleys. Such space shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in width, fifty
feet (50') in length, and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of access
aisles and maneuvering space.
LODGE: A hall or meeting place of a local branch or the members composing a
branch of a fraternal order, or society, such as the Masons, Knights of
Columbus, Moose, American Legion and other similar organizations. It shall be
permissible to serve food and meals on such premises, providing adequate dining
room space and kitchen facilities are available. The sale of alcoholic
beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed provided it is secondary
and incidental to the promotion of some other common objective by the
organization, and further provided that such sale of alcoholic beverages is in
compliance with the applicable Federal, State and Village laws and ordinances.
LOT: A legally divided area or portion of land under single ownership or
control that is intended to be occupied by one use, group of uses, one main
building, or structure.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and rear
lot line.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets, or
on a curving street, where the interior angle of intersection or interception
does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: That percentage of a lot which, when viewed directly from above,
would be covered by a structure or structures, or any part thereof, excluding
projecting of roof areas.
LOT DEPTH: The distance between the midpoint of the front lot line and the
midpoint of the rear lot lines measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2)
or more streets. An alley shall not be considered a street.
LOT, IRREGULAR: A lot whose opposing property lines are generally not parallel,
such as a pie shaped lot on a cul-de-sac, or where the side property lines are
not parallel to each other.
LOT LINE: The property boundary line of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot, abutting or within a
street. On a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the lot line as determined
by the Code Enforcement Officer.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A lot line common with another lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is most
nearly parallel to, the front lot line or front lot lines.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been legally recorded, or land which has a parcel index number within the
Village at the time this title is adopted.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot at right angles or approximately right
angles to the general pattern of the area, the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line to the rear. The rear of the
corner lot is adjacent to the side of another lot, whether across an alley or
not.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines, or between the side
lot line and the lot line adjoining a street of a corner lot, measured along
the required minimum building setback line created by the front yard
requirement of the district in which the lot is located.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land, composed of one or more recorded lots or a
parcel of land described by metes and bounds that is of sufficient size to meet
the minimum requirements of this title concerning use, coverage, width, area,
yards, or other requirements of this title and having frontage on an improved
public street, and which is designated by its owner or developer as a tract of
land to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under single ownership and
control. A "zoning lot" may or may not coincide with the definition of a "lot
of record".
MAJOR HIGHWAYS: All roads, streets, avenues, thoroughfares or other types of
vehicular traveled ways designated by a United States or State of Illinois
route number.
MANDATORY: Constituting a command and imposing an obligation for performance.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A building assembly or system of building subassemblies,
designed for habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the
necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, and other service
systems, which is of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled
by a manufacturer, on or off the building site, with a permanent foundation.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: All other types of manufacturing not included in the
definitions of light manufacturing and medium manufacturing.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
packaging or testing of goods or equipment, including research activities,
conducted entirely within an enclosed structure, with no outside storage,
serviced by a modest volume of trucks or vans and imposing a negligible impact
on the surrounding environment by noise, vibration, smoke, dust or pollutants.
MANUFACTURING, MEDIUM: The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
packaging or testing of goods or equipment within an enclosed structure or an
open yard that is capable of being screened from neighboring properties,
serviced by a modest volume of trucks or other vehicles.
MARQUEE: See definition of canopy.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is registered by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
perform necessary activities to provide only registered medical cannabis
dispensing organizations with usable medical cannabis per the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, enacted by the State of Illinois, as may
be amended from time to time.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is registered by the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered
cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or
related supplies and educational materials to registered qualifying patients,
per the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, enacted by the
State of Illinois, as may be amended from time to time.
MEDICAL CANNABIS FACILITIES: Both medical cannabis cultivation centers and
medical cannabis dispensing organizations.
MIXED USE ZONING: Zoning that permits a combination of usually separated uses
within a single development.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable unit, which is eight (8) body feet or more
in width and is thirty two feet (32') or more in length, and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of
construction to the location or subsequent locations, subject to the provisions
of chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, designed to be used without a
permanent foundation and connected to utilities for year round occupancy with
or without a permanent foundation. The term shall include: a) units containing
parts that are folded, collapsed, or telescoped when being towed and that may
be expanded to provide additional cubic capacity, and b) units composed of two
(2) or more separately towable components designed to be joined into one
integral unit capable of being separated again into the components for repeated
towing. The term shall include units designed to be used for residential,
commercial, educational, or industrial purposes, excluding, however,
recreational vehicles.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land, at least ten (10) acres, developed
with facilities for locating twenty (20) or more "mobile homes", provided each
mobile home contains a kitchen, flush toilet, shower or bath and that such
mobile home park shall be for use only by nontransient dwellers remaining
continuously for more than one year, whether or not a charge is made. It shall
not include a sales lot in which motor vehicles or unoccupied trailers are
parked for the purpose of inspection or sale.
MODEL HOME: A dwelling temporarily used as a sales office for a residential
development under construction; said home being used for onsite sales and not
for general real estate business, and is used as an example of the type of
dwelling unit which may be purchased or rented.
MODULAR HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation, and is so
constructed as to permit its transport to the location at which it is intended
to remain as a permanent structure, and is so constructed as to be permanently
attached to a permanent foundation at said location.
MOTEL: A series of attached, semi attached or detached guestrooms or suites for
the accommodation primarily of automobile transient guests which does not
include individual cooking or kitchen facilities and which provides the unit
with convenient access to off street parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guests or occupants of the premises.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: See definition of truck terminal.
MOTOR HOME, MINI-MOTOR HOME, VAN CAMPER: A self-contained motor vehicle, not
used commercially, designed, or permanently converted to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, with direct walk through
access to the living quarters from the driver's seat.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor trailer, trailer,
or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width along streams, creeks,
springs, gullies or washes, which are natural drainage channels as determined
and identified by the Village Engineer.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A legal lot of record whose width, area or other dimension
did not conform to required regulations when this Code became effective.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign or sign structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time this Code became effective, which does not now conform.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time this Code became effective, which was designed, erected or
structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the zoning regulations
of the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: See definition of use, nonconforming.
NONCONFORMITIES: Lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and
characteristics of uses, that are prohibited under the terms of this title but
were lawful at the date of this title's enactment.
NOXIOUS MATTER: That which is capable of causing injury to living organisms by
chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
physical or economic well being of individuals.
NUISANCE: Any activity arising from unreasonable, unwarranted, or unlawful use
of property that causes substantial and continuing annoyance, inconvenience, or
damage to the property of others or to the public.
NURSERY, CHILDCARE: An establishment for the part time care of five (5) or more
children of pre-elementary school age in addition to the members of the family
residing therein. See definition of daycare center.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An instructional facility for preschool children.
NURSING HOME: An establishment or institution for the care of children or the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for surgical care or institutions for the care and
treatment of mental illness, alcoholism, or narcotics addiction.
OBJECTIVE: Associated with the dispassionate examination of circumstances.
Objective deliberation seeks to exclude all emotive factors.
ODOR THRESHOLD: The lowest concentration of odorous matter in air that will
produce an olfactory response in a human being.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any matter or material that yields an odor which is offensive
in any way.
OPACITY: The quality or state of an object that renders it impervious to the
rays of light; the degree of nontransparency.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling
merchandise stored or displayed out of doors prior to sale. (Such materials
include, but are not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats, agricultural equipment, and monuments.)
OPEN SPACE: Land areas that are not occupied by buildings, structures, parking
areas, streets, alleys or required yards. Open space shall be permitted to be
devoted to landscaping, preservation of natural features, patios, and
recreational areas and facilities.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, or corporation having a possessory interest
entitled to exclusive possession in land, buildings, or possessions.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PARK: A public or private area of land, with or without buildings, intended for
outdoor active or passive recreational uses.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITIES: Parking lots or structures located along public
transit routes designed to encourage transfer from private automobile to mass
transit or to encourage carpooling for purposes of commuting, or for access to
recreation areas.
PARKING AREA: An open, unoccupied space used or required for use for parking of
automobiles exclusively and in which no gasoline or automobile accessories are
sold or no other business is conducted and no fees are charged.
PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a right-of-way,
which is accessory to the principal use of the lot and which is intended and
used for the storage of private motor vehicles owned by members of the family
or families residing upon the premises or by the owners, employees or patrons
of the business or industrial uses.
PARKING LOT, PRINCIPAL: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a right-of-way,
which is the principal use of the parcel of land and which is intended and used
for the storage of motor vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements or to
transients, and where no equipment, parts, fuel, grease or oil is sold and
vehicles are not equipped, serviced, repaired, hired or sold.
PARKING SPACE: An open asphalt or concrete surfaced space within a public or
private parking area meeting requirements under chapter 12 of this title.
PARTICULARS: The circumstances of a specific situation.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material other than water which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.
PARTY WALL: A solid, UL approved common wall which is a fire separation wall
and extends from its footing below grade to the underside of floor/roof and
divides the building to create separate dwelling units.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criteria established to control traffic, noise, odor,
glare, exterior lighting, visual impact, heat, vibration, smoke, particulate
matter, gases, fire and explosion hazards, wastes and so on, generated by or
inherent in uses of buildings, structures or land.
PERMANENT OPEN SPACE: A compact and contiguous land area that is designed for
educational, religious, recreational, or institutional purposes, or such land
which is recommended for such designation by the Village at or before the time
of approval of a subdivision or planned development.
PERMISSIVE: Allowable; granting the option to exercise but in no way requiring.
PERMITTED USE: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular district
or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations, and
performance standards (if any) of such district.
PERMITTEE OR PURCHASER: Any person to whom a permit is issued.
PERSON: A natural person, heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, and
includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their successors or
assigns, or the agent of any of the aforesaid, whether public or private.
PETITION: A formal, written request for specific action from a group of
individuals to a governmental body. Each petition should specify the action
sought, give reasons, and clearly identify individual petitioners.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel or tract of land, initially under single
ownership or control to be developed as a unified project and single entity
which contains two (2) or more principal buildings and more than one principal
use, the plan for which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of
dwelling, density, lot coverage or required open space to the regulations in
any one district established by this title.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT GROUP: A group of three (3) or more principal buildings
designed to be maintained and operated as a unit in single ownership or control
and which has certain facilities in common, such as yards and open spaces,
recreation areas, garages and parking areas.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A residential or commercial development guided by a
total design plan in which one or more of the zoning or subdivision
regulations, other than use regulations, shall be permitted to be waived or
varied to allow flexibility and creativity in site and building design and
location, in accordance with general guidelines 1 .
PLOT PLAN: A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing the actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and other such
information.
POLICY: An imperative or prescriptive principle that directs future action.
PORCH: A roofed over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a main
structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
PRECEDENT: A guide to decision making that rests upon the recurrence of
applications relevantly similar in circumstances or in legal principles.
PREMISES: A parcel of land and all buildings and structures thereon.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure in which a principal use of the lot on which
the structure is located is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
PROCEDURE: A rule governing the sequence of an activity.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: The office of an accountant, architect, chiropodist,
chiropractor, dentist, lawyer, minister, optometrist, osteopath, physician,
registered professional engineer, or member of another similar profession.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, storm sewer or drainage facility,
sanitary sewer, water main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree,
lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement or other facility for which the
local government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and
operation or for which the local government responsibility is established.
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE: A publicly owned area including, but not limited to, the
following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, waterways, parkways, and
streets.
PUBLIC RECORD: Records that a governmental body is required by law to maintain
in the discharging of its responsibilities.
PUBLIC SERVICES: Uses operated by a unit of government to serve public needs,
such as police (with or without jail), fire service, ambulance, judicial court
or government offices, but not including public utility stations or maintenance
facilities.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized to furnish,
under regulation, to the public, cable television, electricity, gas, stream,
telephone, telegraph, transportation, water, or sewerage systems.
PUBLIC UTILITY STATION: A structure or facility used by a public or quasi-
public utility agency to store, distribute, generate electricity, gas,
telecommunications, and related equipment, or to pump or chemically treat
water. This does not include storage or treatment of sewage, solid waste or
hazardous waste.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, sidewalk, or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
QUASI-PUBLIC: Essentially a public use, although under private ownership or
control.
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY: See definition of right-of-way, railroad.
RECOMMENDATION: A decision that may be either a positive (prescriptive)
statement for the approval of some action or a negative (proscriptive)
statement of disapproval of some action. Formal recommendations generally carry
a recitation of supporting reasons.
RECORDED: To officially record a document in the Office of the County Recorder.
RECREATION, INDOOR: An establishment providing completely enclosed recreation
activities. Accessory uses shall be permitted to include the preparation and
serving of food and/or the sale of equipment related to the enclosed uses.
Included in this definition shall be bowling, roller skating or ice skating,
billiards, pool, motion picture theaters, and related amusements.
RECREATION, OUTDOOR: An area free of buildings except for restrooms, dressing
rooms, equipment storage, maintenance buildings, open air pavilions, and
similar structures primarily for recreational activities.
RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT/VEHICLE: Travel trailer, pickup campers or coaches,
motorized dwellings, tent trailers, boats, snowmobiles, trailers, dune buggies
and other equipment designated for recreational use, including similar
accessory appurtenances.
RECYCLING FACILITY: Any location whose primary use is where waste or scrap
materials are stored, bought, sold, accumulated, exchanged, packaged,
disassembled or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap metals, paper,
rags, tires and bottles, and other such materials.
REHABILITATION CENTER (HALFWAY HOUSE): An establishment whose primary purpose
is the rehabilitation of persons. Such services include drug and alcohol
rehabilitation, assistance to emotionally and mentally disturbed persons, and
halfway houses for prison parolees and juveniles.
RELIGIOUS, CULTURAL AND FRATERNAL ACTIVITY: A use or building owned or
maintained by organized religious organizations or nonprofit associations for
social, civic or philanthropic purposes, or the purpose for which persons
regularly assemble for worship.
REMODELING: Any change in a structure, including a structural alteration (other
than incidental repairs and normal maintenance) which may prolong its useful
life, or the useful life of its supporting members such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams, girders or foundations; or the construction of any
addition to, or enlargement of, a structure; or the removal of a structure.
RENOVATION: Interior or exterior remodeling of a structure, other than ordinary
repair.
REQUEST: An asking for a finding, review, advice, or action.
RESERVOIR: Commonly applied to waters held in storage in either artificial or
natural basins and impoundments primarily for a source of water for power,
municipal, industrial, domestic, or flood control uses.
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: A building all or part of which contains one or more
dwelling units.
RESIDENTIAL CARE: Maintenance (room and board), oversight, general
watchfulness, and other appropriate services to meet the needs of residents
including, but not limited to, social, recreational, medical, employment,
educational, rehabilitative and other therapeutic services enhanced by being
provided to individuals with a common and related need for such services in a
family like environment in a residential care home.
RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME: Any dwelling unit or living quarters wherein individuals
are provided residential care. Where a sponsoring agency of the residential
care home is required to be licensed or certified by the State, that sponsoring
agency must maintain at all times a current and valid Illinois State license or
certification by the State to operate residential care homes. A residential
care home does not include a nursing home, hospital, adult daycare center,
child daycare center or a dwelling unit or living quarters which serves to
house persons as an alternative to incarceration for a criminal offense.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Any zoning district designated with an "R", for example,
R-2.
RESTAURANT: A business where the dispensing of edible foodstuffs and/or
beverages on the premises is the principal business operation, including a
cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, and dining room.
RESTAURANT, CARRY OUT: An establishment which sells food only for consumption
off the premises.
RETAIL SALES: The sale of goods, merchandise and commodities for use or
consumption.
RETENTION: Permanent onsite maintenance of stormwater.
REZONING: Any change in this title through amendment or revision.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any existing or dedicated sidewalk, street, alley, highway or
other thoroughfare.
RIGHT-OF-WAY, RAILROAD: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities.
RULE: A statement that performs as a guide in directing actions.
SCHOOL: A public or private institution which offers instruction in any of the
branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public schools
under the Illinois school laws, including prekindergarten, elementary school,
and junior and senior high schools, but excluding trade, business, or
commercial schools.
SCREENING: Decorative fencing or evergreen vegetation maintained for the
purpose of concealing from view the area behind such structures or evergreen
vegetation.
SEMIATTACHED DWELLING: See definition of dwelling, semiattached.
SETBACK: The minimum required distance between the property line and the
building line. Setbacks may also be referred to as required yard.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Includes any method, construction, device or appliance
appurtenant thereto, used for the purpose of treating, neutralizing,
stabilizing, disinfecting or disposing of sewage, industrial waste or other
wastes, or for the recovery of byproducts from such sewage, industrial wastes
or other wastes.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street, walkway or crosswalk which is paved to
meet the current American Disabilities Act requirements and Village regulations
and is intended for pedestrian use only.
SIGN: An advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface or space erected or maintained in view
of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement or promotion of the
interests of any person, entity, product or service, including the sign
structure, supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other
features used to draw the attention of observers. A sign is further described
as any writing (including letters, words, or numerals), pictorial
representation (including devices, symbols, or trademarks), flag, banner,
streamer, pennant, string of lights, or display calculated to attract the
attention of the public, or any other figure of similar character which is a
structure or any part thereof, or a portable display, or is attached to,
painted on or in any other manner represented on a building or other structure
or on the ground and is used to announce, direct attention to or advertise.
SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD): A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, DOUBLE FACED: A double faced sign has two (2) faces with identical copy
on each face and with the maximum angle no greater than forty five degrees
(45°).
SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any revolving, illuminated
sign shall be considered a "flashing sign".
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of a sign and in no case passing through
or between any adjacent elements of the same. However, such perimeter shall not
include any structural or framing elements lying outside the limits of such
sign. With two (2) visible surfaces, the gross surface area shall be the sum of
all sides of the sign.
SIGN, GROUND: A sign which is supported by one or more uprights or braces in or
upon the ground.
SIGN IDENTIFICATION: A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or
the name of an occupant thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation
therein.
SIGN LOCATION: The sign location is determined by measuring from the
furthermost projecting point of the sign to the front lot line.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign which is suspended from or affixed to any building
wall or other structure and extends beyond the building wall or parts thereof
of a structure more than eighteen inches (18").
SIGN, ROOF: A sign erected, constructed, and maintained above the roof of any
building.
SIGN, TEMPORARY MOBILE: An advertising device of a nonpermanent type, used
principally for commercial purposes.
SIGN, WALL: A sign affixed, painted, posted, or placed on a building or
structure.
SMOKE: Small gas borne particles other than water that form a visible plume in
the air; for example, the visible discharge from a chimney, stack, vent,
exhaust or combustion process.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An electronic instrument which includes a microphone, an
amplifier, and an output meter which measures noise and sound pressure levels
in a specified manner. It may be used with the octave band analyzer that
permits measuring the sound pressure level in discrete octave bands.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The intensity of a sound measured in decibels
mathematically described as twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base 10 of
the ratio of the pressure of the sound to a reference pressure of 0.0002
microbar.
SPECIAL USE: A specific use of land or buildings, or both, described and
permitted herein, subject to special provisions and which, because of its
unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A structure which is located on a lot on which a dwelling is
located, and which is designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for
housing horses for the private use of occupant(s) of the dwelling, but in no
event for hire.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A building where horses are kept for remuneration, hire, or
sale.
STAFF: The collective designation of the employees of a governmental body or
agency.
STAFF REPORT: A report prepared for the Village by staff regarding a matter to
be presented either formally or informally to a commission, usually including a
recommendation.
STORAGE BUILDING/SHED: A detached accessory building limited to no more than
one hundred twenty (120) square feet in area, with no side greater than twelve
feet (12'), used for storage of yard equipment, tools and other items typically
kept outside.
STORAGE, OUTDOOR: The outdoor accumulation of vehicles, equipment, or products
or materials for permanent or temporary holding.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Water that results from precipitation which is not absorbed
by the soil or plant material.
STORY: That portion of building included between the upper surface of any floor
and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused under floor space is more than six feet (6')
above grade as defined herein for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above grade as defined herein at
any point, such usable or unused under floor space shall be considered as a
story.
STREET: Any dedicated thoroughfare or public way meeting standards and
specifications of the Village.
STREET, COLLECTOR: Those primary streets within the neighborhood unit which
will act to collect traffic from minor streets for travel to major streets and
highways.
STREET FRONTAGE: All of the property fronting on one side of a street between
two (2) intersecting streets, or in the cases of a dead end street, all of the
property along one side of a street between an intersecting street and the end
of such dead end streets.
STREET, HIGHWAY: Those State, County and Village designated routes which
provide continuity of travel and freedom from hazards and congestion necessary
for interregional and Village traffic movement.
STREET, LOCAL: Those streets whose prime function is to give access to abutting
property. They are not intended to carry heavy through traffic and are designed
to discourage such movement.
STREET, MAJOR: Those routes so designated by the Village to be of importance in
intravillage traffic movement and necessary to provide easy access to
neighboring communities.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: Those local streets which serve to control access to
major thoroughfares and permit development of lands adjacent to high speed and
high capacity highways. Their prime function is property access.
STREET, PRIVATE: A right-of-way or easement in private ownership not dedicated
or maintained as a public street, which affords the principal means of access
to two (2) or more sites.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, such as the
addition, removal or modification of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or
foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, or any piece of work artificially
built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, the use
of which requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something
having a permanent location on the ground. With reference to the foregoing, a
structure shall include, but not be limited to, buildings, parking lots,
concrete or asphalt slabs and driveways, decks, patios, gazebos, sidewalks,
walls and signs. Unless otherwise provided, a fence shall not be considered a
structure for purposes of this title.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: A structure which exists upon the effective date of
the adoption or amendment of this title and which does not comply with the
conditions, area requirements, lot width requirements, yard requirements,
height limitations, bulk regulations or off street parking and loading
requirements of the zoning district in which said structure is located by
reason of the adoption or amendment of this title.
STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL: A building or structure in which a principal use is
conducted.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: A structure not designed or intended for permanent human
occupancy nor for the permanent protection of animals, chattels or property of
any kind.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development for any future
use, either residential, commercial or industrial. The term includes
resubdivision and, when appropriate to context, shall relate to the process of
subdividing or to the land subdivided.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The formal instrument by which the division of land together
with the conditions of development are legally recorded.
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS: Regulations governing the division and development of
land so as to assure definitive legal title and guarantee health, safety, and
welfare to both users and the public.
SUBSTANTIVE: Referring to the content of rationality. It includes statements of
fact and assertions of value, need, want, preference, desert, right, merit, and
interest.
SWIMMING POOL: Any structure, basin, chamber or tank that contains water over
twenty four inches (24") in depth and which is used, or intended to be used,
for swimming, wading or recreational bathing. This includes in ground,
aboveground and on ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
TAVERN: An establishment in which alcoholic beverages are sold or served to
customers for consumption on the premises, including establishments, commonly
known as key clubs, in which alcoholic beverages are served only to members and
their guests.
TEMPORARY USE: See definition of use, temporary.
THEATER: A building used primarily for the presentation of live stage
productions, performances or motion pictures.
THOROUGHFARE, PRIMARY: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a principal traffic artery between the various sections of
the Grant Park area and is so designated as a primary thoroughfare in the
Comprehensive Plan.
THOROUGHFARE, SECONDARY: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
the primary thoroughfare system, or between primary thoroughfares, and is so
designated as a secondary thoroughfare in the Comprehensive Plan.
TOWNHOUSE: A structure containing a number of dwelling units each separated by
vertical interior unpierced party walls.
TOXIC MATTER: Materials which are capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRAFFIC WAY: A public way other than an alley, intended for vehicular traffic
and affording a primary means of access to abutting property.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motor power used or adaptable for living, sleeping,
business, or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks,
skids, jacks, horses, or skirting, and has been recently or may be equipped
with wheels or other devices for transporting the structure from place to
place. A permanent foundation shall not change its character nor allow
determination of meeting requirements within this title unless the entire
structure is erected in accordance with the Village Building Code.
TRAILER, TRANSPORT: A vehicle standing on wheels or on rigid supports which is
used for transporting boats, cargo, or property.
TRUCK REPAIR/STORAGE: A building used for the care, incidental servicing and/or
interior storage of trucks, tractors, truck trailers, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
TRUCK STOP: A building or area intended specifically to accommodate trucks and
semitrailers including facilities for eating, fueling and/or overnight parking.
TRUCK TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by truck is
assembled and/or stored for rerouting in intrastate and interstate shipment by
truck or in which semitrailers, including tractor and/or trailer units and
other trucks are parked or stored.
TUTORING: The teaching or instruction of academic or business subjects to not
more than four (4) students simultaneously.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building or structure
thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied,
maintained, let, or leased.
USE, CHANGE OF: The change within the classified use of a structure or
premises.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use which, because of its unique characteristics, may be
allowed in a specified zoning district permitting it as a conditional use, only
after special consideration of its impact upon neighboring land and of public
need for the use at the particular location.
USE, NONCONFORMING: A use which lawfully occupied a building, structure or land
at the time this Code became effective, which has been lawfully continued and
which does not now conform with the use regulations.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards (if any) of such districts.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. A principal use may be either a permitted use or
a special use.
USE REGULATIONS: The provisions of this title which identify permitted uses,
impose use limitations, require adherence to performance standards and regulate
home occupations and accessory and temporary uses.
USE, TEMPORARY: A use of a building, structure or parcel of land which is
impermanent in existence and that is authorized by this title to be conducted
for a fixed period of time. Temporary uses are characterized by such activities
as the sale of agricultural products, contractors' offices and equipment sheds,
fireworks, carnivals, flea markets, and garage sales.
VALUES: All assertions of goodness, merit, worth, desert, right, obligation,
duty, desire, or preference.
VARIANCE: A waiver or modification of the terms of the zoning regulations
where, due to conditions peculiar to the property, a literal enforcement of the
regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make more money.
VIBRATION: A periodic motion of the particles of an elastic body or medium in
alternately opposite directions from the position of equilibrium when that
equilibrium has been disturbed.
VIDEO STORE: A building or establishment that rents or sells video films for
entertainment, not to include however, such establishments that offer for rent,
sale or viewing any percent of product or business that could be classified
under the definition of "adult entertainment".
VILLAGE BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Grant Park.
VIOLATION: The act of disregarding, disobeying, neglecting, omitting, or
refusing to comply with the regulations or enforcement of this title.
WALKWAY: A right-of-way within a block, ten feet (10') or more in width,
dedicated for public use, intended primarily for pedestrians but which may
include utilities where necessary and from which motor and engine propelled
vehicles are excluded.
WAREHOUSE, DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A building or premises storing goods,
merchandise or equipment, with multiple, daily semi truck deliveries and
distributions contributing to the main function of the facility.
WAREHOUSE, STORAGE: A building or premises in which goods, merchandise or
equipment are stored either in support of and accessory to the main function of
the principal facility or in such building which exists as a long term storage
facility for private or public use.
WATERWAY: A natural or manmade drainage channel formed by the surface
topography of the earth to transport flow of stormwater.
WHOLESALE SALES: Sale to retailers for resale and not for direct consumption.
YARD: An open, unoccupied space on a lot, other than a court, which is
unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings or structures, except as
otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and any
building, measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point to the
front lot line. On a corner lot, each yard that abuts a street right-of-way
shall be considered a front yard.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and any
building, measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point to the
rear lot line.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building and
measured from between the building line to the side lot line.
YARD, TRANSITIONAL: The required front, side, or rear yard, between a business
or manufacturing district and a residential district.
ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENT: Single-family dwellings arranged on individual lots
as either detached structures with one or more side walls on a side property
line.
ZONING APPEAL: An appeal filed by an individual who has applied to the Code
Enforcement Officer for a zoning permit and who has been turned down for
noncompliance with the requirements of this title.
ZONING DISTRICT: A geographic area in which the designation of this title sets
forth requirements dealing with all uses that may be conducted therein.
ZONING MAP: The graphic depiction of the zones or districts within the Village
incorporated into this title as a part hereof.
ZONING OFFICER: See definition of Code Enforcement Officer.
ZONING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Code Enforcement Officer showing that the
plans submitted are in compliance with this title and that the use or structure
proposed is allowed by this title or has been allowed by the granting of a
variance by the Planning Commission.
ZONING REGULATIONS: The division of land within the jurisdiction of a local
unit of government and the designation of permitted uses of land within those
divisions. Zoning regulations permit the lawful restraint of the right of use
of real property. They define residential, commercial, industrial, and other
uses; number of occupants; and height, coverage, and location of buildings. A
set of administrative procedures is included in zoning regulations. (Ord. O-9-
17-3, 9-18-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Lots
9-3-2: Open Space On Lots
9-3-3: Fences
9-3-4: Open Storage
9-3-5: Screening
9-3-6: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
9-3-7: Swimming Pools
9-3-8: Exemptions
9-3-9: Home Occupations
9-3-10: Adult Oriented Uses
9-3-11: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-3-1: LOTS:
   (A)   Definition: A legally divided area or portion of land under single
ownership or control that is intended to be occupied by one use or one main
building or structure. Within all districts, all lots shall be lots of record
when less than five (5) acres in size as required by and in conformance with
the Village subdivision regulations and the State Plat Act. Legally divided
areas of land or lots in excess of five (5) acres shall be eligible for special
uses only in any zoning district, and as determined and accepted by the Village
Board. In addition, the Village will recognize as legal only those lots that
have met all applicable regulations and fees of the subdivision ordinance.
   (B)   Permit Issuance: Under no circumstances shall a permit of any type be
issued for any parcel of land which has not been recognized as a legal lot by
the Village.
   (C)   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: Not more than one principal building may
be located on a single lot of record or a single lot unless otherwise
authorized within each zoning district.
   (D)   Division Of Lots: No lot shall be divided into two (2) or more lots
for the purpose of transfer of ownership, unless the division shall conform
with all the applicable regulations of the Village subdivision regulations and
this title. Any violation of this section will result in Village refusal to
accept such divisions as legal lots until all requirements have been met and
applicable fees paid.
   (E)   Through Lots: On vacant through lots, the front lot lines shall be
along the street right-of-way designated by the Code Enforcement Officer,
except that when a front lot line has been established on one or more lots in
the same block and all have front lot lines established along the same street
right-of-way, the street right-of-way line designated as the front lot line for
such lot or lots shall be the front line on all vacant through lots for such
block. Only such obstructions as herein permitted in front yards shall be
located in that part of a rear yard adjoining a street that is equivalent in
depth to a required front yard.
   (F)   Corner Lots: On a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the lot line
as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer. The required front yard setback
on corner lots shall apply to each side of the lot facing a street.
   (G)   Two Uses On A Lot: Where two (2) or more permitted or special uses,
each requiring a minimum area and frontage, are provided in the same building
or on the same lot, the required area and frontages shall be the sum of the
areas and frontage required for each use individually.
   (H)   Street Frontage And Access: Every lot must have frontage on a public
street and must be provided with facilities for ingress and/or egress to and
from such public street conforming to such standards as to design and location
as meet the requirements set forth by the Village and are approved by the road
authority onto whose road or street such ingress and/or egress is to be made.
Residential lots which abut upon major streets shall also abut upon a local
street. Vehicular access to such lots shall be to the local street only.
Frontage on any alley shall not be constructed as satisfying the requirements
of this title related to frontage on a dedicated street.
   (I)   Angular Lots: Angular lots in residential zones shall have a minimum
width of seventy feet (70') measured at the building setback line.
   (J)   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of
the appropriate zoning classification, but in no case shall a lot have an
average depth of less than one hundred twenty feet (120'). In the case of
double frontage or reverse frontage lots, the minimum average depth shall be
one hundred fifty feet (150').
   (K)   Existing Lots: Any lot in a single ownership, which was of record at
the time of the adoption hereof, that does not meet the requirements of this
title as to area and lot width which is located in a residential district, may
be utilized for single- family residence purposes, provided that it qualifies
under all other regulations. This shall not be interpreted to reduce the
buildable width of a corner lot, or a corner lot and adjoining lot in single
ownership, subdivided and recorded by law at the time of the passage hereof, to
less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-2: OPEN SPACE ON LOTS:
The following general provisions dealing with open space, lot coverage, yards,
setbacks, vision clearance, and permitted obstructions are provided for
herewith:
   (A)   Provisions Of Open Space: The provisions of yards, courts, and other
open spaces and minimum lot area legally required for a building shall be a
continuing obligation of the owner of such building or property on which it is
located, as long as the building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally
required yards, courts, or other open space, or minimum lot area allocated to
any building, shall by virtue of change of ownership, or for any other reason,
be used to satisfy yard, court, or other open space or minimum lot area
requirements for any other building.
   (B)   Location Of Open Space: All yards, courts, and other open space
allocated to a building or group of buildings shall be located on the same
zoning lots as such building or group of buildings.
   (C)   Yards For Existing Buildings: No yard now or hereafter provided for a
building existing on the effective date of this title shall subsequently be
reduced below, or further reduced if already less than, the minimum yard
requirement of this title for equivalent new construction. However, a yard
adjoining a street may be reduced to provide right-of-way for a street
widening.
   (D)   Required Setbacks: Notwithstanding any other provision of this title,
no building or structure shall be erected, constructed, structurally altered,
or enlarged within thirty feet (30') of a planned public right-of-way.
   (E)   Required Yard Applies To One Building Only: No part of a yard, or
other open space, or off street parking or loading space required for or in
connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this chapter
shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off street parking or
loading space, similarly required for any other building.
   (F)   Exception For Established Setbacks:
      1.   Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage of one side of a
street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings that
have observed (within a variance of 10 feet or less) a front yard greater in
depth than required herein, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the
street than the average front yard so established by the existing buildings.
      2.   Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on one side of a
street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings that
have not observed a front yard as herein required, then:
         (a)   Interior Lots:
            (1)   Where a building is to be erected within one hundred feet
(100') of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a
line drawn between the closest front corners of the two (2) existing buildings.
            (2)   Where a building is to be erected within one hundred feet
(100') of an existing building on one side only, it may be erected as close to
the street as the existing building.
         (b)   Corner Lots: The depth of the setback lines shall be as normally
required in the district where the lot is located.
   (G)   Line Of Sight/Vision Clearance: In residence districts, the location
of buildings, structures and landscaping on corner lots shall be regulated so
as not to obstruct the vision of drivers of motor vehicles. No buildings or
structures shall be erected or maintained, nor any landscaping planted, grown
or maintained to a height of more than two feet (2') within a triangular area
determined by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured along the
property lines of the abutting streets thirty feet (30') equidistant from the
intersection of those property lines.
   (H)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards: The following shall not be
considered to be obstructions when located in the required yards specified:
      1.   All Yards: In all yards, except as limited below:
         (a)   Open terraces not over three feet (3') above the average level
of the adjoining ground, but not including a permanently roofed over terrace or
porch;
         (b)   Awnings and canopies, but not projecting more than five feet
(5') out in any residential district nor more than ten feet (10') out in any
commercial or industrial district, and at least seven feet (7') above the
average level of the adjoining ground;
         (c)   Steps, four feet (4') or less above grade which are necessary
for access to a permitted building or for access to a zoning lot from a street
or alley;
         (d)   Chimneys projecting eighteen inches (18") or less into the yard;
         (e)   Arbors, trellises, flagpoles, fountains, sculptures, plant
boxes, and other similar ornamental objects;
         (f)   Recreational devices except in front yards; provided, however,
that freestanding basketball standards are not governed by this section;
         (g)   Walls in the side and rear yards only; and
         (h)   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or less
into the yard.
      2.   In Front Yards: One-story bay windows projecting two feet (2') or
less into the yard.
      3.   In Rear Yards:
         (a)   Enclosed, attached, or detached off street parking spaces;
         (b)   Accessory shed, tool room, and similar buildings or structures
for domestic or agricultural storage;
         (c)   Balconies, breezeways, and open porches;
         (d)   One-story bay windows projecting two feet (2') or less into the
yard; and
         (e)   Nonmechanical laundry drying equipment.
In a residential district, no accessory building shall be closer to the rear
lot line than five feet (5').
      4.   In Side Yards: Open off street parking may be permitted in side
yards, subject to limits of subsection (G) of this section and subsection
9-12-1(G) of this title or other applicable ordinances. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-3-3: FENCES:
See title 4, chapter 5 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-4: OPEN STORAGE:
   (A)   Screening: All open storage shall be landscaped or screened in
accordance with section
9-3-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   Deposit Of Wastes: No materials or wastes shall be deposited on any
premises in such form or manner that they may be transferred off such premises
by natural causes or forces. All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or
dust or which constitute a fire hazard or which may be edible by, or otherwise
be attractive to, rodents, insects or animals shall be stored outdoors only in
closed containers. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-5: SCREENING:
   (A)   Where any business or industrial use, or any multiple-family dwelling
is located on a lot abutting an R-1 or R-2 residential lot, the following
regulations shall apply to the lot on which such business or industrial use or
such multiple-family dwelling is located:
      1.   There shall be a solid fence or natural screening, as determined by
the Code Enforcement Officer, constructed in conformity with applicable Village
ordinances, extending the full length of the abutting lot line, except that no
such solid fence or natural screening shall extend beyond the corner side yard
setback or beyond the front yard setback.
      2.   In all districts or special uses allowing outdoor storage, a six
foot (6') high hedge or screening shall be planted to enclose all areas which
are visually exposed to the front yard.
      3.   Garbage and refuse containers and collection areas shall be screened
from view from the abutting residential use and from the street.
      4.   Parking area lighting shall be screened, shrouded or of such type so
as not to interfere with the quiet enjoyment of the abutting residential use or
adjoining property. Specific lighting design and illumination shall be approved
by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When required by this title, screening shall be designed, planted, or
constructed and maintained in such a way as to comply with the intent of the
several zoning districts. Plans for such screening shall be approved by the
Village as well as being developed in terms of the following general
guidelines:
      1.   Type: The use of natural vegetation and grasses on earth berms
should be used whenever possible.
         (a)   No screening should interfere with sight requirements for safe
ingress and egress.
         (b)   Earthen berms shall have a side slope not less than three feet
(3') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical.
         (c)   Visual screens consisting of evergreen, or evergreen type hedges
or shrubs, shall be six feet (6') high, and spaced at intervals of not more
than six feet (6'), located and maintained in good condition.
      2.   Height:
         (a)   Screening: Screening should be of sufficient height to
adequately screen areas from adjacent property lines, but may not be higher
than six feet (6') without a variance, excluding natural vegetation growth.
         (b)   Maximum Height: No fence or wall for screening shall be erected,
placed, or maintained along a lot line of any nonresidential zoned property,
adjacent to residential zoned property to a height exceeding six feet (6').
         (c)   Minimum Height: Screening between rear and side lot lines of
commercial, industrial, or other uses and not adjacent to residential
properties shall be a minimum of six feet (6') high. Proper screening materials
shall be approved by the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   (A)   Policy: Accessory buildings, structures and uses are allowed in the
various districts as prescribed in each district and shall be compatible with
the principal use. Refer to section
4-1-15 of this Code for accessory buildings and structures building
requirements.
   (B)   Time Of Construction: No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed or occupied prior to the completion of the principal building to
which it is accessory.
   (C)   Lots, Reverse Corner: On a reverse corner lot in a residential
district, which is a lot of record prior to the adoption hereof, no accessory
building or portion thereof located in a required rear yard shall be closer to
the side lot line abutting the street than the required front yard on the
adjacent lot to the rear. Further, in the above instance, no such accessory
building shall be located within five feet (5') of any part of a rear lot line
which coincides with a side lot line or portion thereof in a residential
district.
   (D)   Number Of Accessory Buildings: No more than one storage building shall
be allowed on any lot within a residential area. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-7: SWIMMING POOLS:
See title 4, chapter 9 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-8: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Existing Agricultural Exemptions: The provisions of this title shall
not be exercised so as to impose regulations or require permits with respect to
land used or to be used for existing agricultural purposes. However, with
respect to the erections, maintenance, repair, alterations, remodeling, or
extension of buildings or structures used or to be used for existing
agricultural purposes, these shall conform to building or setback lines, and
shall be subject to the building permit requirements of subsection
9-1-6(G) of this title. Also, in the interest of public health, a residence and
its water supply and sewage disposal facilities in connection with an
agricultural use, shall not be exempt. In the event that the land ceases to be
used solely for agricultural purposes, then and only then shall all provisions
of this title apply.
   (B)   Public Utility Exemption: Where Federal or State Statutes supersede
local ordinance, as required by such statute, the type or location of any
poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, or any other similar
distribution equipment of a public utility is exempt from the requirements of
this title.
   (C)   Underground Installations Exemption: Pipelines and other underground
installations, to the extent that the same are completely buried beneath the
surface of the soil, are exempt from the requirements of this title, provided,
that any incidental or associated structures, installations, or equipment,
except markers, used in connection with such pipeline or other underground
installations, and which protrude or are extended above the surface of the
soil, shall, to the extent of such protrusion or extension, be subject to all
of the applicable provisions hereof. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-9: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   (A)   Definition: A "home occupation" is a business, profession, occupation
or trade conducted for gain entirely within a residential building and
secondary in nature to the primary use of the zoning lot, buildings, and/or
structures.
   (B)   Purposes: It is the intent of this section to allow as home
occupations only those uses that conform to the standards of this section. A
home occupation is a clearly accessory use so located and conducted that the
average neighbor, under normal circumstances, would not be aware of its
existence except for a sign as provided for below. Standards for home
occupations are intended to ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and
the residential character of the neighborhood and to maintain the subordinance
and incidental status of the home occupation.
   (C)   Prohibited Activities: Activities which do not come within the
definition of home occupation as provided in this section shall be considered
business uses and are prohibited in any residential district.
   (D)   Restrictions: In addition to all of the use limitations applicable in
the district in which a home occupation is located, no home occupation shall be
permitted unless it complies with the following restrictions in all residential
districts:
      1.   No more than one person other than permanent residents of the
dwelling unit shall be employed in the home occupation.
      2.   There shall be no manufacturing or processing of any sort.
      3.   One sign, either attached to the dwelling or displayed from a
window, having an area of not more than one square foot shall be permitted.
      4.   No wholesale, jobbing or retail business shall be permitted unless
it is conducted entirely by mail or telephone and does not involve the receipt,
sale, shipment, delivery, or storage of merchandise on or from the premises,
provided, however, that articles produced by members of the immediate family
residing on the premises may be sold from and stored upon the premises.
      5.   There shall be no alteration of the principal residential building
which changes the character thereof as a dwelling. Exclusive entrances/exits
shall be prohibited.
      6.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of one story of a
single-family dwelling nor more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of any
other dwelling unit shall be devoted to the home occupation.
      7.   No mechanical or electrical equipment may be used except such types
as are customary for purely domestic, household or hobby purposes.
      8.   There shall be no exterior display or storage of goods, equipment,
materials or motor vehicles utilized in the home occupation.
      9.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the principal
residential building.
      10.   Sales and services to patrons shall be arranged by appointment and
scheduled so that not more than one patron vehicle is on the premises at the
same time.
      11.   An increase in traffic, including parking demand, shall not be
generated beyond what would be normally expected in a residential neighborhood.
The home occupation shall not prevent vehicles intended to be parked in a
private garage or driveway from doing so.
      12.   The home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors, or electrical interference beyond that which normally occurs in
the zoning district in which located.
   (E)   Particular Home Occupations Permitted: Permitted home occupations
include, but are not limited to, the following list of occupations, provided,
however, that each listed occupation shall be subject to the requirements of
this section:
      1.   Beauty shops and barbershops, limited to a single chair, operated by
a resident of the dwelling unit in which this home occupation is permitted.
      2.   Babysitting services, but not a nursery school or daycare center.
      3.   Dressmakers, seamstresses, and tailors.
      4.   Instruction, but not recitals, programs or displays, in music,
dance, home crafts and art.
      5.   Artists, sculptors, and authors or composers.
      6.   Office facilities for architects, engineers, lawyers, insurance
agents and members of similar professions.
      7.   Office facilities for real estate and other salesmen, sales
representatives and manufacturer's representatives, when no retail or wholesale
transactions are conducted on the premises.
      8.   Secretarial or computer related services.
      9.   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary work and
craft or woodworking, provided, however, that no machinery or equipment shall
be used or employed, other than that which would customarily be incidental to
residential occupancy. Such machinery or equipment shall include that which
would customarily be employed in connection with a hobby or a vocation not
conducted for gain or profit.
   (F)   Particular Home Occupations Prohibited: Prohibited home occupations
include, but are not limited to, the following list of occupations:
      1.   The sale of weapons of any kind.
      2.   General retail.
      3.   Tanning salons.
      4.   Funeral homes.
      5.   Nursery schools and daycare centers, unless specifically permitted
by the district regulations as a special use.
      6.   Restaurants.
      7.   Stables.
      8.   Tourist homes and lodging houses, unless specifically permitted by
the district regulations.
      9.   Renting of trailers.
      10.   Medical or dental offices, clinics or hospitals.
      11.   Animal kennels or hospitals.
      12.   Engine repair shops.
      13.   Welding shops.
      14.   Any activity which produces or involves the storage of noxious
matter, or employs, produces or involves the storage of flammable matter. (Ord.
O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-10: ADULT ORIENTED USES:
   (A)   Definition: Any establishment, business, building or structure from
which, under the laws of the State of Illinois, minors are excluded by virtue
of age unless accompanied by a consenting parent, guardian or spouse. This
shall include, but not be limited to, all adult oriented definitions:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities", or
"specified anatomical areas"; or an establishment with a significant section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any
other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which: 1)
features topless dancers, strippers, "go go" dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows; 2) not infrequently
features entertainers who display "specified anatomical areas"; or 3) features
entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct perform in a manner
which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or
features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged in explicit simulation of,
"specified sexual activities".
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
"novelties", lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult entertainment
cabarets, adult novelty stores and other similar uses.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: For the purpose of this title, "specified
anatomical areas" means:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals,
         (b)   Pubic region,
         (c)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: For the purpose of this title "specified sexual
activities" means: 1) human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or
arousal; 2) acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and 3)
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or
female breasts.
   (B)   Purposes: It has been determined in numerous communities that the
presence of adult oriented businesses, as herein defined, by their very nature,
have certain objectionable characteristics unrelated to the content of
materials available for sale or viewing on such premises. The regulation of
such businesses is necessary to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the Village and to prevent the adverse effects of such businesses
by enforcing the location and distancing requirements for such uses. It is
necessary to ensure that such businesses do not violate legitimate criminal
laws, such as those prohibiting obscenity, employment of minors, prostitution,
drug offenses, or Building Code regulations.
   (C)   Location: Adult oriented uses may be allowed as a special use in a C-
2 or industrial district provided:
      1.   The establishment is not located within six hundred feet (600') of
any property zoned A-1, E-1, R-1, R-2, or R-3.
      2.   The establishment is not located within six hundred feet (600') of
any residential building.
      3.   The establishment is not located within one thousand feet (1,000')
of any church, religious institution, daycare center, library, teen center,
school, public park or playground, or recreational facility where minors
congregate. "Minors" means a person under eighteen (18) years of age.
      4.   The establishment is not located within one thousand feet (1,000')
of another adult establishment.
   (D)   Restrictions: Adult oriented uses shall be regulated, but not limited
to, the following restrictions:
      1.   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to "specified
anatomical area" or "specified sexual activities" from any public way. This
shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening. No
person shall operate or cause to be operated an adult use within any premises
wherein alcoholic beverages are served, sold or consumed.
      2.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall be allowed on the
premises.
      3.   All "viewing areas", which shall be defined as the area where a
patron or customer would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film or
viewing device, shall be visible from a continuous main aisle or public room
and shall not be obscured by any curtain, door, wall or other enclosure.
      4.   There shall be no aperture whatsoever in any wall or partition
between viewing areas.
      5.   Each viewing area shall be lighted at a minimum level of ten (10)
foot-candles in all parts thereof.
      6.   All performers shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      7.   All performances, exhibitions or displays shall take place on a
platform raised at least two feet (2') from the level of the floor, and located
at least ten feet (10') from any patron.
      8.   No performer shall fondle or caress any patron or other performer,
and no patron shall fondle or caress any performer.
      9.   No patron shall be permitted to pay or give any gratuity to any
performer, and no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
   (E)   Adult Section: Within an establishment selling or renting books,
magazines, or films to the general public, a nonsubstantial section may
display, rent or offer for sale items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" with the following restrictions:
      1.   The establishment shall be located within a C-2 or industrial
district and is not located within one thousand feet (1,000') of any existing
church, religious institution, daycare center, library, teen center, school,
public park or playground, or recreational facility where minors congregate.
"Minors" means a person under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   The area shall be set aside, blocked off or of limited access to
adults only, with clearly marked signs indicating that this area contains adult
only items.
      3.   The area shall be arranged in such manner that the display is not
visible to the general public.
      4.   There shall be suitable measures installed to ensure that adults
only have access.
      5.   A special use permit shall be obtained. Conforming businesses
existing at the time of adoption of this title shall be allowed to continue
such conforming practices and shall be granted a special use permit after
review and determination by the Code Enforcement Officer and approval by the
Village Board.
   (F)   Special Use Permit Required: No adult oriented use shall operate even
at those locations where they may be allowed under subsection (C) of this
section without first having obtained a special use permit in the manner set
forth in chapter 14 of this title.
   (G)   Existing Adult Oriented Uses: Any adult oriented use which existed
lawfully, but which became nonconforming upon the adoption of this section
shall be given until January 1, 2001, to either become conforming or shall be
discontinued. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-3-11: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Kennel Restrictions: No person shall keep a combined total of more
than four (4) adult dogs, cats or other domestic animals or pets over six (6)
months of age, unless they are kept on a property specifically zoned to allow a
veterinary clinic, animal hospital, or kennel. For purposes of this title, when
an animal reaches six (6) months, it shall be considered an adult animal.
   (B)   Parking Of Mobile Homes: It shall be unlawful, within the limits of
the Village or within the zoning jurisdiction of the Village, for any person to
park any mobile home on any street or other public place, or on any tract of
land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied within the village except as
provided in chapter 5 of this title. Emergency or temporary stopping or parking
of a mobile home is permitted on any street for not longer than two and one-
half (21/2) hours, subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations
or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations of that street or
of the Village. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Intent
9-4-2: Purpose
9-4-3: Application Procedure
9-4-4: Sketch Development Plan
9-4-5: Preliminary Development Plan
9-4-6: Final Development Plan
9-4-7: Standards
9-4-8: Legal Status Of Plans And Covenants; Changes
9-4-9: Use Conceptions
9-4-10: Bulk Regulation; Exceptions
9-4-11: Minimum Lot Area In Residential Planned Developments
9-4-12: Spacing Between Detached Residential Buildings
9-4-13: Designation Of Recreational Space And Permanent Common Open Space
9-4-14: Permits
9-4-15: Effect Of Denial Of A Special Use
9-4-1: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to provide the means and the guidelines through which
tracts of land may be developed through an overall approach, rather than the
traditional lot by lot treatment afforded by other districts in this chapter.
It is intended to provide a maximum of design freedom by permitting the
developer an opportunity to more fully utilize the physical characteristics of
the site through the reduction of lot sizes, yard, height and bulk restrictions
and the planned mixing of uses. Through the requirements of a development plan,
it is the intent that property under this chapter will be developed through a
unified design providing contiguity between the various elements and ultimately
leading to a better environment. Increased residential densities may be
permitted under this chapter if such increases can be substantiated on the
basis that the superior design makes greater densities possible with no
reduction of amenities. This chapter is not intended as a panacea, and should
not be utilized as a device for making increased densities more palatable, or
as a means of circumventing the Village's development regulations. This chapter
should only be employed in instances where there is truly some benefit for the
community to be derived from its use. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-2: PURPOSE:
In addition to the general purpose of this chapter, the purpose of this section
is to establish standards and procedures for planned unit developments, in
order that the following objectives may be obtained:
   (A)   Variety and flexibility in land development that is necessary to meet
with the best interests of the entire Village.
   (B)   The allocation, maintenance, and permanent preservation of common open
space, recreation areas and facilities; to offer recreational opportunities
close to home, to enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by the conservation
of natural resources.
   (C)   A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the public
by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this chapter, as well as the subdivision
regulations.
   (D)   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic
and geologic features, air and water quality, and other natural resources and
amenities.
   (E)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical facilities
that result in better development and design, and the construction of aesthetic
amenities.
   (F)   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, public grounds and buildings and other facilities.
   (G)   Land use which promotes the public health, safety, comfort and
welfare.
   (H)   Innovations in residential, commercial, and industrial development so
that growing demands of the population may be met by greater variety in type,
design, and layout of space ancillary to said buildings. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-4-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Confer With Planning Commission: A planned development shall be
granted as a special use permit, in accordance with standards and procedures of
this title, and may depart from the normal procedures and requirements of this
chapter and the subdivision regulations. Application shall be accompanied by
the required plats, documents, and other data. Before submitting an application
for a planned unit development, an applicant may confer with the Planning
Commission to obtain information and guidance, before entering into binding
commitments or incurring substantial materials; provided, however, that no such
preapplication conference shall result in any binding commitments on behalf of
the applicant or the Village.
   (B)   Preapplication Conference: The following procedures shall be required
for all planned developments:
      1.   Planning Commission: Prior to filing a formal application for
approval of a planned development, the applicant shall request a preapplication
conference with the Planning Commission. The request for a preapplication
conference shall be submitted to the Director of Planning and Code Enforcement.
      2.   Purpose: The purpose of the preapplication conference and the
presentation is to make advice and assistance available to the applicant before
presentation of the sketch development plan, so that the applicant may
determine:
         (a)   Whether the proposed planned development appears in general to
be in compliance with the provisions of this title and other applicable
ordinances;
         (b)   Whether any zoning amendment or variance is required in
connection with the proposed development;
         (c)   Whether the proposed planned development will be in conformity
with land use policies and objectives of the Village. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-4-4: SKETCH DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to provide a process through which
the Plan Commission may determine if the proposed development is of adequate
merit, and thereby complies with the purpose of this chapter. Developments of
twenty (20) acres or less shall submit both sketch and preliminary development
plans prior to a public hearing. Developments in excess of twenty (20) acres
shall submit preliminary and final sketch plans separately over the prescribed
period of time, unless the Village waives this procedure by official resolution
of the Village Board.
   (B)   Requirements: Application for a planned development shall be executed
by, or on behalf of, the landowner, and filed in triplicate, accompanied by ten
(10) copies of a sketch development plan. A filing fee in accordance with the
fee ordinance to cover all professional services shall be submitted to the
Village Clerk along with the following information:
      1.   Ownership: The entire site of the planned unit development shall be
under single ownership, and/or unified control as demonstrated by a description
of legal responsibility as necessary to effectuate and maintain the plan.
      2.   Minimum Size: The site of the planned unit development shall be
determined on a case by case basis by recommendation of the Planning Commission
and approval of the Village Board during the sketch development plan phase of
the approval process. The developer/property owner shall provide sufficient
evidence to show the size of the property is sufficient for the proposed use(s)
and type of development.
      3.   Uses: The planned unit development may include any or all uses
permitted within any of the existing zoning districts or a mixture thereof;
provided that the uses permitted in the planned development shall be of a type
and so located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon the
surrounding properties, and shall be compatible each with the other within the
planned unit development.
      4.   Notice Of Hearing: Names and addresses of the persons to whom
notices of hearing hereunder may be sent including the subdivider, the designer
of the subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land
to be platted.
      5.   Land Use Plan: A Land Use Plan for the entire planned development,
which shows the boundaries of the proposed development, sets forth the present
plans of the developer of the planned development of the area into the types of
land uses and the location of such land uses. Any residential use area shown on
the plan shall also show the proposed number of dwelling units and densities by
type of residential unit proposed to be constructed, within each phase of the
planned development. Conceptual sketches shall be provided, demonstrating the
land planning concept for each proposed residential type of housing unit.
Similar, but more specific information should be provided for the area of the
plan intended for initial development.
      6.   Legal Description: A legal description of the property proposed to
be included in the total planned development.
      7.   General Character: A written explanation of the general character of
the proposed development including:
         (a)   The description and quantity of all land uses to be included in
the development, with maximum and minimum percentage limitations for each use
as well as the proposed number of acres to be devoted to recreational areas,
schools, and Municipal purposes;
         (b)   The projected type, location and number of dwelling units and
densities to be constructed in each phase of the total development;
         (c)   A description of each type of residential, commercial or
industrial unit proposed to be constructed (i.e., single-family, commercial,
industrial, etc.);
         (d)   The estimated population broken down by housing type, location,
and school age children as may be anticipated upon completion of the
development.
      8.   General Description: A preliminary engineering study providing a
general description of existing sanitary and storm facilities and service water
facilities, on and adjacent to the proposed development and the proposed
improvements necessary to handle properly the sanitary and stormwater and
service needs upon development and any additional information as may be
requested by the Village Engineer.
      9.   Traffic Study: A traffic study prepared by a qualified expert,
providing a general description of existing roads on and adjacent to the
proposed development, and the proposed road improvements necessary to handle
properly the traffic anticipated to be generated upon development. A
circulation diagram indicating the proposed movement of vehicles, goods and
pedestrians within the planned development, and to and from existing
thoroughfares. Any special engineering features and traffic regulation devices
needed to facilitate or ensure the safety of this circulation pattern must be
shown.
      10.   Construction Schedule: A proposed construction schedule showing the
anticipated number of dwelling units or other structures to be constructed
during anticipated term of development, and showing the anticipated amount of
square feet of commercial property (if any) to be constructed and ready for
occupancy during the anticipated term of the development:
         (a)   The approximate date on which construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
         (b)   The stages in which the project will be built and the
approximate date when the construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
         (c)   The anticipated rate of development;
         (d)   The approximate dates when the development of each of the stages
in the development will be completed;
         (e)   The area and location of recreational space and common open
space that will be provided at each stage.
      11.   Modification, Exceptions And Variances: A description of the
modifications, exceptions, and variances from this chapter or the Village's
subdivision regulations which are being requested as part of the application
for establishment of the planned development.
      12.   Front Elevation: Architects' rendering of front elevation of
primary and accessory buildings. Such renderings should be of sufficient detail
to permit an understanding of the proposed character of development.
      13.   Feasibility: Adequate evidence, in the form of a market research
report or other appropriate evidence to establish the need for and feasibility
of the proposed development.
      14.   Resources: A preliminary statement identifying existing natural and
environmental resources, including a policy statement by the applicant
expressing basic plans and procedures, which will be utilized to ensure
protection of the total physical setting of the development and related
environs. The statement should identify and locate on one or more exhibits, the
following environmental factors:
         (a)   Soils Analysis: A soils analysis shall be prepared along with
recommendations from the Kankakee County Soil and Water Conservation District.
The analysis must include soil types, code numbers, and limitations for:
urbanized areas, conservation and agricultural productivity, soil wetness and
erosion potential.
         (b)   Scenic View: Scenic view and vistas.
         (c)   Surface Hydrology: Surface hydrology identifying existing
surfaces drainage patterns, topography, major and minor water sheds and limits
of flood of record with elevations as set forth in the Hydrological
Investigations Atlas published by the U.S. Geological Survey, and also the
identification of the projected 100-year flood.
         (d)   Geology: Geology identifying surface geological deposits and a
statement of their characteristics and limitations prepared pursuant to the
recommendations and published data of the Illinois Geological Survey and of any
other mapping data and analysis of subsurface conditions on the subject
property if required by the Village Engineer.
         (e)   Coverage And Vegetation: Natural coverage and vegetation showing
marshes, bogs, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees, natural prairie, rock
outcroppings, existing pasture land, cropland, orchards, other agricultural
uses, areas of sand, gravel, or peat extractions, and any unique natural or
ecologically sensitive area.
         (f)   Existing Development: Existing development illustrating the
generalized pattern of land use, major highways, collector streets, minor
streets, sidewalks and railroads, sanitary sewer, storm sewers and drainage
improvements, water main and associated utility improvements and designated
landmarks, historical areas and buildings.
         (g)   Current Ground Elevations: Current ground elevations on the
tract contours at two foot (2') intervals and spot elevations at all peaks in
grade, along drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more than
one hundred feet (100') in all directions.
      15.   Land Use: A written statement signed by the applicant outlining and
describing in detail as the Planning Commission deems appropriate, the
arrangement by which the applicant proposes to regulate land use and otherwise
ensure development of the proposed planned development, in accordance with the
approval of the Planning Commission and Village Board. Such statement may, but
need not, include a draft of proposed covenants intended to be included and to
be filed in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Kankakee County prior to
disposition of any land in the planned development (which covenants may include
adequate provisions to assure proper maintenance and repair of all areas and
facilities under common ownership, including payment thereof, and
enforceability thereof by, or on behalf of, the Village) proposed character and
bylaws of an association, if any, for homeowners, merchants, or industrial
owners within the proposed planned developments.
      16.   Statement Of Ownership: A statement of the present ownership of all
the land within the planned unit development.
   (C)   Public Hearing: The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the application for a planned development and sketch plan (and preliminary
plans if the development is 20 acres or less), giving notice of the time and
place not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date
of the hearing by publishing a notice thereof at least once in the local
newspaper.
   (D)   Planning Commission Action: Within forty five (45) days after the
close of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall provide a written
communication to the Village Board recommending approval, modification, or
disapproval of the sketch and/or preliminary plan of the planned development
and the reasons thereof:
      1.   In what respects the proposed plan is, or is not, consistent with
the stated purpose of the planned development regulations.
      2.   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements and
standards of the planned development regulations.
      3.   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations, otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, the density, dimension, area, bulk and use, and
the reasons why such departures are or are not deemed to be in the public
interest.
      4.   The nature and extent of the common open space and recreational
space in the planned development, the reliability of the proposals for
maintenance and conservation of the common open space and recreational space,
and the adequacy or inadequacy of the amount and function of the open space in
terms of the densities and dwelling types proposed in the plan.
      5.   The manner in which said plan does or does not make adequate
provision for public services, provide adequate control over vehicle traffic,
and further the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
      6.   The relationship and compatibility, beneficial or adverse, of the
proposed plan to the adjacent properties and neighborhood.
      7.   The desirability of the proposed plan to physical development, tax
base and economic well being of the entire community.
      8.   The conformity with the recommendations of the Comprehensive Plan of
the Village.
      9.   In case of a plan which proposed development over a period of years,
the sufficiency of the terms and conditions proposed to protect the interests
of the public and residents of the planned development in the integrity of the
plan.
   (E)   Action By The Village Board Of Trustees: The Village Board, after
receipt of the sketch development plan of the planned development, shall
approve, modify or disapprove such sketch development plan and/or preliminary
plan. The Village Board may require such special conditions in the approval of
the sketch development plan, as it may deem necessary to ensure conformity with
the intent of all Comprehensive Plan elements and the stated purpose of the
planned development.
      1.   Upon approval by the Village Board of the sketch development plan by
resolution, a record shall be prepared including findings of fact and setting
forth the terms of relief and/or variances granted from existing ordinances in
general, and specifically from the subdivision regulations. No building permit
shall be issued for any structure until a final planned development plan has
been filed and approved.
      2.   Approval of a sketch development plan shall not constitute approval
of the final plan, rather it shall be deemed an expression of the approval of
the layout submitted on the sketch plan, as a guide to the preparation of the
preliminary or final plans. Preliminary and final plan or plans for a portion
of the planned development or the entire planned development, shall be
submitted by the developer, not later than one year (or such additional time,
as may be authorized by resolution of the Village Board), after approval of the
sketch plan, for approval by the Corporate Authorities of the Village and
subsequent recording upon the fulfillment of the requirements of these
regulations and conditions, if any, of the sketch approval. The final plan
shall be approved as the final land use and zoning plan, if it conforms
substantially with the sketch and preliminary plan. Upon approval of the
Village Board the preliminary and final plan may be filed and approved
simultaneously if all requirements hereof are met.
      3.   The Village Board shall notify the Planning Commission and applicant
of its action. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-5: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of the preliminary plan is to provide
a transitional phase between sketch and final plan approval and a logical
sequence of events.
It is intended to permit the applicant the opportunity to provide specific
information pertaining to that portion of the planned development, which is the
subject of the preliminary plan.
   (B)   Requirements:
      1.   Application for preliminary plan approval of a planned development
shall be filed with the Director of Planning and Code Enforcement in
triplicate, accompanied by ten (10) copies of a preliminary development plan,
including the following.
      2.   Preliminary plans for all or specified development phases of the
planned development shall be submitted for approval. There shall be no minimum
acreage requirement with respect to preliminary plans. In considering the
approval of a preliminary plan, no further public hearing shall be required to
approve changes from the sketch development which are not "major changes" as
defined in subsection
9-4-8(B) of this chapter.
      3.   The following information shall be required for all preliminary
plans:
         (a)   Legal Description: A boundary survey and legal description of
the area covered by such preliminary plan, prepared and certified by a
registered Illinois surveyor, including the total acreage therein certified to
the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an acre, a north point (designated as true
north) and the date of the preparation.
         (b)   Topographic Survey: A topographic survey of the area covered by
such preliminary plan at two foot (2') contour intervals as such as exists at
that time.   
         (c)   Map: A map showing the existing zoning and land use of the
property covered by the preliminary plan and the area within five hundred feet
(500') thereof, as well as of the boundaries of the total planned development.
         (d)   Drawing: A detailed drawing of the area covered by such plan
prepared at a scale of not less than one inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200')
and shall show such designations as proposed streets (public and private) for
the area covered by such preliminary plan and the area within five hundred feet
(500') thereof, all buildings, their height and use, common open space,
recreational areas and facilities, parking areas, sidewalks, service areas, and
other facilities related to the proposed development. The submission may be
composed of one or more sheets and drawings and shall include:
            (1)   Public Roads: Existing and proposed public roads including
classifications, width of rights-of-way, width of pavement, and construction
details.
            (2)   Easements: Existing easements and proposed easements to be
granted in lieu of rights-of-way.
            (3)   Density: Provide information on the density of residential
uses, including dwelling units per acre, the number of dwelling units by type
and the number of buildings by type.
         (e)   Public Utilities Plan: A schematic public utilities plan of
existing and proposed utilities drawn at a scale of not less than one inch to
two hundred feet (1" = 200') for the area covered by such preliminary plan and
the area within three hundred feet (300') thereof indicating the following, and
any additional documentation:
            (1)   Schematic sanitary and storm sewer systems.
            (2)   Schematic water supply systems.
            (3)   Schematic street lighting and public area lighting systems.
            (4)   A landscape plan.
         (f)   Time Schedule: A time schedule of the proposed development of
the area covered by such preliminary plan.
         (g)   Character: Explanation of the character of the area covered by
the preliminary plan and the reasons why it has been planned to take advantage
of the flexibility of these regulations.
         (h)   Covenants: Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants which
will govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned
development and any of its common open space, and recreational areas and
facilities, in the area covered by the preliminary plan.
         (i)   Nonresidential Use: Provide information on the type and amount
of ancillary and nonresidential uses in a residential development, including
the amount of common open space, and recreational areas and facilities.
         (j)   Subsurface Conditions: Subsurface conditions on the tract (if
required by the Village Engineer); location and results of tests made to
ascertain subsurface soil, rock, and ground water conditions; depth to ground
water, unless test pits are dry at a depth of five feet (5').
         (k)   Title And Certificates: Present tract designation according to
official records in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds; title under which the
proposed development is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners; and
notation stating acreage.
         (l)   Open Space And Recreation Areas And Facilities: All parcels of
land intended to be dedicated for public use or reserved for the use of all
property owners with the purpose indicated, and the improvements which will be
made to each area and facility.
         (m)   Architectural Renderings: Architectural renderings of the
proposed structures within only the area which is the subject of the
preliminary plan.
   (C)   Time Limitations For Submission Of Preliminary Plans: The first
preliminary plan of the proposed planned development shall be submitted for
approval within six (6) months after adoption by the Village Board of the
sketch development plan, provided, that upon request in writing of the
developer, the Village Board may, by resolution duly adopted at any meeting of
the Village Board, extend the period of time for the submission of a first
preliminary plan.
If the first preliminary plan shall cover less than all of the planned
development, preliminary plans for additional areas of the planned development
may be submitted to the Village Board within such period of time as shall have
been prescribed in the approval of the application for establishment of the
planned development; provided, further, that upon request in writing of the
developer, the Village Board may extend the period of time for submission of
preliminary plans covering all of the planned development.
   (D)   Status Of Approved Preliminary Plan: Approval of a preliminary plan
shall not constitute approval of the final plan nor qualify a plat of the
planned development for recording, rather it shall be deemed an expression of
approval of the preliminary plan as a guide to preparation of the final plan. A
preliminary plan which has been granted approval as submitted or approval with
conditions or modifications shall not be modified or revoked nor otherwise
impaired by action of the Village pending an application for final approval
without the consent of the landowners, provided that application for final
approval is filed within the time or times specified in the resolution granting
preliminary approval and thereafter, but prior to final approval, the landowner
shall choose to abandon such plan and shall so notify the Planning Commission
in writing, or shall fail to file application for final plan approval within
the required time period, the preliminary plan approval shall be deemed to be
revoked and all that portion of the area included in the plan for which final
approval has not been given shall be subject to those local ordinances
applicable thereto. No building permit shall be issued for any structure until
approval has been given by the Village Board.
   (E)   Submission Of Updated Land Use Plans:
      1.   Submission With Preliminary Plans: At any time and from time to time
when a preliminary plan for a portion of the planned development is submitted
for approval, it shall be an obligation of the developer of such portion to
cause the developer of the planned development to prepare and submit to the
Village with such preliminary plan, an updated Land Use Plan for those areas in
the planned development for which preliminary plans shall not then have been
submitted for approval.
      2.   Annual Submissions: When no updated Land Use Plan of the planned
development shall have been prepared for one year, the developer of the planned
development shall, unless the Village waives such obligation, prepare and
submit to the Village a Land Use Plan for those areas in the planned
development for which preliminary plans shall not then have been submitted for
approval. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-6: FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the final development plan is to designate
with particularity the land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the
division of other lands, not so treated, into common open areas and building
areas, and to designate and limit the specific internal uses of each building
or structure, as well as of the land in general.
   (B)   Requirements: The final plan of the planned development shall conform
substantially to the preliminary plan as approved, and if desired by the
developer, it may be submitted in stages with each stage reflecting a portion
of the approved preliminary plan which is proposed to be recorded and
developed; provided however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of
these regulations. The required procedure for approval of the final plan of a
planned development shall require the following:
      1.   Application: Application for final plan approval shall be filed with
the Director of Planning and Code Enforcement in triplicate, accompanied by ten
(10) copies of a preliminary development plan. The final plan and supporting
data shall be filed with the Village Clerk and forwarded to the Planning
Commission for certification that the final plan is in conformity with these
regulations and in agreement with the approved preliminary and sketch plans.
      2.   Final Plan Submission: Final plans for all or specified development
phases of the planned development shall be submitted for approval. There shall
be no minimum acreage requirement with respect to final plans. Approval of
final plans may not be withheld for reasons that would be inconsistent with the
approved sketch development plan. In considering the approval of the final
plan, no further public hearings shall be required to approve changes from
sketch and preliminary development plans which are not "major changes" as
defined in subsection
9-4-8(B) of this chapter.
      3.   Final Plan Approval: Within twelve (12) months after approval of the
sketch development plan, the applicant shall submit a final plan for approval
to the Planning Commission.
      4.   Subdivision Plan: If the planned development constitutes a
subdivision, a final subdivision plan shall be submitted. Any such final
subdivision plan shall set forth on the face thereof suitable dedications of
permanent open space and recreational space to be owned in common easements,
rights-of-way, and all other criteria in form and substance conforming to the
requirements of the Village's subdivision regulations, as the same may be
amended and in force from time to time.
      5.   Final Version: The final version of the site plan of the planned
development shall be filed indicating the locations of all buildings, all
parking and loading spaces, and any other special structure, facility, or
feature approved or required by the Village Board.
      6.   Covenants: The final version of the covenants, if any, by which the
applicant proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed
development, accompanied by the written representation and warranty of the
applicant, in form and substance satisfactory to the Village Attorney to the
effect that the owner of the real property which is the subject of the proposed
planned development has not sold or otherwise disposed of any interest in said
property and will not sell, or otherwise dispose of any such interest, prior to
the filing for record of said covenants in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds
of Kankakee County, Illinois.
      7.   Deeds Or Easement Agreement: Such deeds or easement agreement, if
any, as area required or approved by the Village Board, shall be filed in form
and substance approved by the Village Attorney, conveying a suitable ownership
interest in the parcels within the proposed planned development which are to be
subject to public or common ownership.
      8.   Articles Of Incorporation: Filing a copy of the articles of
incorporation of the homeowners', merchants', or industrial owners'
association, if any, required or approved by the Village Board, certified by
the Secretary of State of Illinois, not more than thirty (30) days prior to the
filing of the final plan; a certificate of good standing for such corporation
certified by the Secretary as being true, correct, and complete copy of such
bylaws, as of the date not more than thirty (30) days prior to the filing of
such final plan.
      9.   Planning Commission Approval: After review of the final plan and
supporting data, the Planning Commission shall approve the plan within sixty
(60) days after filing by the developer. Disapproval of the final plan of the
planned development shall include a clear statement of the reasons thereof.
      10.   Board Approval: Approval by the Village Board of the final plan for
any proposed planned development shall be effective only for a period of sixty
(60) days after the date of such approval, unless within such sixty (60) day
period the applicant shall record or cause the recordation of the final plan
including any final subdivision plan, the final restrictive covenants, and the
deeds and/or easement agreement required or approved by the Village Board in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Kankakee County, Illinois.
      11.   Drawings And Specifications: Engineering drawings and
specifications for:
         (a)   Sanitary and storm sewer systems.
         (b)   Water supply systems.
         (c)   Street lighting and public area lighting systems.
         (d)   Sidewalks, trails, and paths.
Such engineering drawings and any other drawings required by any other
ordinance of the Village shall be prepared in such detail as may be required by
the Village Engineer.
      12.   Cost Estimate: Estimate of the cost of installations of all
proposed public improvement confirmed by a registered Illinois engineer.
      13.   Impact Report: A plan or report shall be prepared by the developer
and shall evaluate in general terms the impact of the proposed development on
the natural environment. The report shall identify:
         (a)   The final version of the developer's policy toward maintaining
the natural environment.
         (b)   An analysis of the existing environment prior to the proposed
action. Consideration should be given to the following factors:
            (1)   Unique physical features of the land such as soil stability,
erosion, and ground contours.
            (2)   Scenic views.
            (3)   Drainage, runoff surface water, ground water and floodplains.
            (4)   Air quality.
            (5)   Areas underlain by sand and gravel aquifers.
            (6)   Vegetation.
            (7)   Wildlife.
         (c)   A general listing of the effects on the environment which would
be caused by the proposed development and the actions which the developer
proposes to undertake to resolve any adverse conditions resulting from
development of the land.
      14.   Final Renderings: Final architectural renderings and facades of all
proposed primary structures.
      15.   Delinquent Taxes: A certificate shall be furnished from the County
Collector that he finds no delinquent taxes and that all special assessments
constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the property of the planned
development have been paid.
   (C)   Time Limitations For Submission Of Final Plans: Final plans for all of
the area covered by the first preliminary plan shall be submitted to the
Village Board for approval within one year after approval of the sketch
development plan by the Village Board, provided, that upon request in writing
of the developer, the Village Board may, by resolution duly adopted at any
meeting of the Village Board, extend the period of time for the submission of
such final plans. Final plans covering all of the planned development shall be
submitted to the Village Board for approval within such period of time as shall
have been prescribed in the approval of the application for establishment of
the development provided that upon request in writing of the developer, the
Village Board may, by resolution duly adopted at any Board meeting, extend the
period of time for submission of final plans covering all planned development.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-7: STANDARDS:
In granting or withholding approval of the sketch development plan, preliminary
plans and final plans, the Planning Commission and the Village Board shall be
guided by the requirements of this chapter and the following standards:
   (A)   Public Good: All plans shall be so designed that the public health,
welfare, and safety will be protected.
   (B)   Property Value: The proposed development shall be such that it does
not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in the immediate
area.
   (C)   Protection Of Conditions: All plans shall provide for protection of
both aesthetics and function of the natural environment, which shall include,
but not be limited to, conditions pertaining to floodplains, soil, and geologic
characteristics, air quality, and preservation of vegetation.
   (D)   Common Open Space: All plans shall provide for and ensure the
preservation of adequate recreational facilities and common open space.
   (E)   Balanced Neighborhood: Residential use areas shall have a variety of
housing types and densities necessary to achieve a balanced neighborhood.
   (F)   Public Activities: The planned development shall include land area
necessary to accommodate cultural, educational, recreational, and other public
and quasi-public activities necessary to serve the needs of the residents
thereof.
   (G)   Creative Land Uses: The proposed development shall provide for the
orderly and creative arrangement of all land uses with respect to each other
and to the entire Village.
   (H)   Ways For Pedestrians And Cyclists: Walkways shall form a logical, safe
and convenient system for pedestrian access to all dwelling units and to all
project facilities and off site destinations likely to attract substantial
pedestrian traffic. Walkways to be used by substantial numbers of children as
play areas or routes to schools or other principal destinations shall be so
located and safeguarded as to minimize contacts with normal automobile traffic.
Street crossings shall be held to a minimum on such walkways, located and
designed to promote safety, appropriately marked and otherwise safeguarded. If
substantial bicycle traffic is anticipated, bicycle paths shall be incorporated
in the walkway system. Pedestrian ways appropriately located, designed, and
constructed may be combined with other easements and uses by emergency or
service vehicles, but shall not be used by other automotive traffic.
      1.   Access: Access for pedestrians and cyclists shall be arranged to
provide safe, convenient routes, and need not be limited to the vehicular
access points. When pedestrian access points do not occur at street
intersections, they shall be marked and controlled, and when such ways are
exposed to substantial vehicular traffic at the edges of a district, fences or
other barriers shall be erected and maintained to prevent crossings except at
designated points. Bicycle paths, if provided, shall be so related to the
pedestrian way system that street crossings are combined.
      2.   Screening At Edges Of The Planned Development: Fences, walls or
vegetation screening shall be provided along the edges of the planned
development where needed to protect residents from undesirable views, lighting,
noise, or other off site influences or to protect occupants of adjoining
residential districts from similar adverse influences within the planned
development. In both cases, screening shall be designed to control the existing
or potential first floor residential windows in the planned development or
other residential district. Screening requirements may be waived where terrain
makes protection overview impractical. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-8: LEGAL STATUS OF PLANS AND COVENANTS; CHANGES:
   (A)   Compliance: All planned developments shall be developed in strict
compliance with the recorded final plan and supporting data. All final plans
and covenants filed and recorded hereunder shall be contractual undertakings
by, and shall be binding upon, the applicants; therefore, the owners of the
land covered by such planned development and their successors and assigns shall
limit and control the construction location and use and operation of all land
in such planned development, and all improvements and structures to be located
thereon.
      1.   Schedule: The Village Board shall consider planned development
subject to revocation if construction falls more than two (2) years behind the
filed and approved schedule. The developer shall be notified at least ninety
(90) days prior to any revocation hearing.
      2.   Changes In Final Approval Plan During Development: Upon issuance of
a special use permit and the necessary building permits, no changes may be made
during or after the development of the final plan as approved and recorded
unless such changes are made pursuant to a new and separate application for
planned development.
      3.   Occupancy: No planned unit development, or any portion thereof, may
be occupied until such time as a certificate of compliance has been issued by
the building inspector and/or Director of Planning and Code Enforcement
certifying that the development of a stage of the development, if applicable,
has been completed in compliance with the final plan as approved and recorded.
   (B)   Major Changes: Any of the following changes shall be deemed to be a
"major change":
      1.   A change which alters the concept, character or intent of the sketch
development plan.
      2.   A change which increases residential density.
      3.   A change which significantly increases the height of any building or
structure; or alters the uses and design standards set forth as a minimum in
this chapter.
      4.   A change which significantly increases nonresidential floor area by
more than ten percent (10%).
      5.   A change which reduces the amount of common open space of
recreational land.
      6.   A change in the Land Use Plan.
      7.   A change in the transportation plan.
   (C)   Minor Changes: The Planning Commission may approve minor changes in
the planned development which do not change the concept or intent of the
development. "Minor changes" are defined as any change not defined as a major
change. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-9: USE CONCEPTIONS:
The Planning Commission may recommend, and the Village Board may authorize,
that there be permitted in part of the area of a proposed planned development,
and for the duration of such development, specified uses not permitted by the
use regulation of the district in which said development is located, provided
that the Planning Commission shall find:
   (A)   That the use permitted by such exceptions are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the planned
development.
   (B)   That the uses permitted by such exceptions are not of such a nature or
so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood
   (C)   That no more than twenty percent (20%) of the ground area of the
planned development shall be devoted to such specified use exceptions;
provided, however, that in a residential planned development not more than
eight percent (8%) of the total ground area in the planned development which is
zoned for residential purposes shall be devoted to uses first permitted within
the commercial zoning district; and no ground area in the residential planned
development shall be devoted to uses first permitted within the industrial
zoning district.
   (D)   That in an industrial planned development, such specified use
exceptions shall comply with any performance standards contained within the
zoning district in which the proposed planned development is located. (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-10: BULK REGULATION; EXCEPTIONS:
In the case of any planned development, the Planning Commission may recommend,
and the Village Board may authorize, exceptions to the bulk regulations of this
chapter within the boundaries of such planned development, provided that the
Planning Commission shall find:
   (A)   That such exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of such
development as well as the neighboring property that would be obtained under
the bulk regulations of the district in which said development is located.
   (B)   That along the periphery of such planned developments; yard shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the district in which said
development is located.
   (C)   That in a residential planned development the maximum number of
dwelling units per gross residential acre shall not exceed three (3) units per
acre. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-11: MINIMUM LOT AREA IN RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Provided the overall number of dwelling units per acre (density) is not
increased beyond the provisions of section
9-4-10 of this chapter and provided that the common open space and recreational
area are in accord with section
9-4-13 of this chapter the planned development may include minimum lot areas
per dwelling unit smaller than those normally required in the zoning district.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-12: SPACING BETWEEN DETACHED RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
In a residential planned development, the minimum distance between the walls of
any two (2) separate buildings over one story in height shall be as follows:
   (A)   Thirty feet (30'), if either wall contains bedroom windows.
   (B)   Forty feet (40'), if either wall contains living room windows.
   (C)   Thirty feet (30') in all other circumstances, except that the minimum
distance between walls, which are parallel or substantially parallel in the
portions thereof, which are directly opposite one another (measured
perpendicularly) and do not exceed fifteen feet (15') in length and contain no
windows, shall be:
      1.   Fifteen feet (15') for all structures below a horizontal plane
thirty five feet (35') above grade; and
      2.   Thirty feet (30') for all structures above said plane. (Ord. O-9-17-
3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-13: DESIGNATION OF RECREATIONAL SPACE AND PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE:
Residential planned development areas shall include: recreational areas
equivalent to at least thirty percent (30%) of the total residential area; and
industrial and commercial areas shall include permanent common open space in an
amount equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the total commercial and/or
industrial areas of the planned development.
   (A)   Definitions:
DISTRICT PARKS: Large active and passive recreational areas generally located
on or near thoroughfares and within two (2) miles of each residence intended to
be served. District parks generally adjoin junior and senior high schools and
often include such facilities as swimming pools, tennis complexes, recreational
building and adequate off street parking.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS: Active and passive recreational areas which usually serve
children and adults in an urban area within a radius of approximately one-half
(1/2) mile. Neighborhood parks generally adjoin public elementary schools and
may include such features as ball diamonds and play area toward the interior of
the site so the perimeter can be landscaped to buffer sound and provide a
measure of safety to the public.
PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE: Parkways, medians, landscaped green space, or
other similar areas, defined as recreational areas.
PLAY LOTS: Active recreational areas intended for children up to six (6) or
seven (7) years of age. Play lots generally feature play apparatuses, benches,
sand areas and landscaping. Play lots should be located near the center of the
housing areas generating children of such ages so that children need not cross
arterial streets to reach play lots.
RECREATION AREA: Land specifically designed and intended for the active or
passive recreational use of the residents of the planned development and shall
include, but not be limited to: public or private play lots and parks; school
sites; stormwater detention or retention areas if the Planning Commission
determines that such areas are capable of being utilized for multipurpose
recreational activities; pedestrian corridors; bicycle trails; greenbelts; and
open space networks.
   (B)   Designation:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall determine, in its reasonable
discretion, whether land is designated and intended for the recreational use of
residents of the planned development and in so doing shall consider the
following factors:
         (a)   The relationship of the location of the land being considered to
the residential use area which it is intended to serve.
         (b)   The size and usability of the land being considered.
         (c)   Other existing or proposed recreational facilities capable of
fulfilling recreational needs of the residents.
      2.   Within the percentage limitations set forth for residential land use
above, the developer should, to the extent that good planning allows, provide
such recreational space in the nature of play lots, neighborhood parks,
generally in accordance with the following standards, and should deviations
from the following standards be required, the Planning Commission may vary
these requirements by five percent (5%):
 
Classification     Approximate Size Acres Per
                                    1,000 People
Play lots          Up to 1 acre     1.0
Neighborhood parks 4 - 10 acres     6.0
District parks     10 - 20 acres    3.0
 
         (C)   Maintenance Of Common Open Space And Recreation Areas: In the
event that the organization established to own and maintain common open space
and recreation areas and related facilities or any successory organization,
shall, at any time after establishment of the planned development, fail to
maintain the common open space and recreation areas and related facilities in
reasonable order and condition in accordance with the plan, the Village may
serve written notice upon such organization or upon the residents of the
planned development setting forth the manner in which the organization has
failed to maintain the space in reasonable condition, and said notice shall
include a demand that such deficiencies of maintenance be cured within thirty
(30) days thereof, and shall state the date and place of a hearing thereon
which shall be held within fourteen (14) days of the notice. At such hearing
the Village may modify the terms of the original notice as to the deficiencies
and may give an extension of time within which they shall be cured. If the
deficiencies set forth in the original notice or in the modifications thereof
shall not be cured within said thirty (30) days or any extension thereof, the
Village, in order to preserve the taxable values of the properties within the
planned development and to prevent the common open space from becoming a public
nuisance, may enter upon said property and maintain the same for a period of
one year.
Said entry and maintenance shall not vest in the public any rights to use the
common open space or recreation areas when the same is voluntarily dedicated to
the public by the owners. Before the expiration of said year, the Village
shall, upon its initiative or upon the request of the organization theretofore
responsible for the maintenance of the common open space, call a public hearing
upon notice to such organization, or to the residents of the planned
development to show cause why such maintenance by the Village shall not, at the
election of the Village, continue for a succeeding year. If the Village Board
shall determine that such organization is ready and able to maintain said
common open space and recreation areas at the end of said year, then such
matter shall be discontinued. If the Village Board shall determine that such
organization is not ready and able to maintain said common open space and
recreation areas in a reasonable condition, the Village may, in its discretion,
continue to maintain said common open space during the next succeeding year and
subject to a similar hearing and determination, in each year thereafter. The
decision of the Village Board in any such case shall constitute a final
administrative decision subject to review in accordance with appropriate
provisions of this chapter.
The cost of such maintenance by the Village shall be assessed ratably against
the properties within the planned development that have a right of enjoyment of
the common open space and recreation space and shall become a tax lien on said
properties. The Village at the time of entering upon said property for the
purpose of maintenance, shall file an appropriate notice of such lien upon the
properties affected by such lien within the planned development. (Ord. O-9-17-
3, 9-18-2017)
9-4-14: PERMITS:
Building, zoning and occupancy permits shall be required for each structure in
a planned development. No building permit relating to any part of a planned
development shall be issued prior to the approval of a final plan or such part
of the planned development; provided, however, that subject to the approval of
the Village, excavation operations (construction of sewer, water and other
utility improvements) may proceed at any time following approval of the
preliminary development plan. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
 
9-4-15: EFFECT OF DENIAL OF A SPECIAL USE:
No application for a special use, which has been denied wholly or in part by
the Village Board shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date
of said order of denial except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of
change of conditions found to be valid by the Planning Commission and the
Village Board. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Permitted Districts
9-5-2: Permitted Uses
9-5-3: Site And Structure Requirements
9-5-4: Mobile Home Park License
9-5-5: Zoning Of Mobile Home Parks
9-5-6: Development Standards
9-5-7: Water Supply And Sewage Disposal
9-5-8: Mobile Home Stand
9-5-9: Storage
9-5-10: Fences
9-5-11: Garbage And Waste
9-5-12: Health, Safety, And General Welfare Of Residents
9-5-13: Management
9-5-14: Applicability Of Village Ordinances And Regulations
9-5-15: Streets, Sidewalks And Lighting
9-5-16: Mobile Home Sales
9-5-17: Register Of Occupants
9-5-18: Permit For Existing Park
9-5-19: Penalty
9-5-1: PERMITTED DISTRICTS:
Mobile home parks shall be allowed as a special use within an R-1 Single-Family
Residential District and only if specifically authorized by the Village Board
as allowed in chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
Clubhouses and management offices.
Mobile homes, manufactured homes, factory built homes or any other similar
homes including movable or portable dwellings constructed for towing on its own
chassis and connection to utilities without use of a permanent foundation for
purposes of single-family permanent habitation.
Public safety facilities, for use exclusively by the residents and guests of
the development.
Recreation facilities, for use exclusively by the residents and guests of the
development.
The following accessory uses are permitted accessory uses provided they are
constructed as per all applicable ordinances, and separated from the side or
rear lot lines a minimum distance of five feet (5'):
One private garage or carport per site not to exceed five hundred (500) square
feet.
Storage shed not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) square feet. No side
dimension shall be greater than twelve feet (12'). Reference section
9-3-6 of this title for additional requirements. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Size And Density: No mobile home park shall contain an area of less
than ten (10) acres nor less than twenty (20) mobile home sites provided,
however, that mobile home parks in existence on the effective date of this
title having a total area or number of mobile home sites less than herein
prescribed may continue to operate. Existing mobile home parks may be altered
to bring such parks into conformity with this title. However, no additions or
alterations may be made to any existing mobile home park unless such additions
or alterations are in conformity with this title.
   (B)   Setbacks And Screening For Exterior Boundary:
      1.   All mobile home stands shall maintain the following setbacks from
mobile home park boundaries facing public streets:
         (a)   State or U.S. highways or major streets: Fifty feet (50').
         (b)   County highways or collector streets: Fifty feet (50').
         (c)   Township roads or minor streets: Forty feet (40').
      2.   There shall be minimum side and rear yards of forty feet (40').
      3.   All mobile home parks shall be provided with visual screening such
as fences or berming, as approved by the Code Enforcement Officer, along all
boundary lines abutting existing public rights-of-ways, residential, commercial
or industrial development. Such fences or berming shall be of sufficient height
and density to adequately filter from view the mobile homes, accessory
structures and other uses in the mobile home park.
   (C)   Lot Size Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot area: Seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width: Sixty feet (60').
      3.   Minimum lot area for corner lots: Nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
      4.   Minimum corner lot width: Seventy five feet (75').
      5.   Minimum home size: Nine hundred twenty four (924) square feet.
         (D)   Yard Setback Requirements:
      1.   Front setback: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Side yard setbacks: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear yard setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Corner lot setback: Twenty five feet (25').
      5.   Maximum structure height: Twelve feet (12').
      6.   Maximum lot coverage: Thirty percent (30%). (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-5-4: MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE:
   (A)   License Fee: The Village shall assess a license fee for owner's
maintenance and operation of any mobile home park located within the zoning
limits of the Village in accordance with the Illinois State Statutes and
applicable law of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
operate or maintain upon any property owned or controlled by him, a mobile home
park within the zoning limits of the Village, without having first secured such
license therefor from the Village, granted and existing in compliance with the
terms of this chapter. Such license shall automatically renew each year based
on the date of issuance and may be revoked only after a public hearing.
   (C)   Application: The application for such license shall be made on forms
furnished by the Village and shall be filed with the Village Clerk. The
application shall be accompanied by a copy of the mobile home park plan showing
the following, either existing or as proposed:
      1.   Name and address of the owner of the park and applicant, if
different.
      2.   Location and legal description of the park.
      3.   Plans and specifications of the proposed mobile home park
development including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A map indicating the area and dimensions of the tract of land.
         (b)   The number, location and size of all manufactured home sites.
         (c)   The location and width of all public and private streets,
roadways and walks.
         (d)   The location of all water, storm sewer and sanitary sewer
facilities.
         (e)   All building existing or to be constructed within the mobile
home park.
         (f)   The location of internal lighting and electrical systems.
         (g)   Location of recreational and retention facilities.
         (h)   Proper conformance with Village building, zoning and plumbing
regulations.
         (i)   As built plan showing the location and depth of all underground
utilities.
         (j)   Such further information as may be requested by the Village to
enable it to determine if the proposed park will comply with legal
requirements.
   (D)   Annexation Fee: Commencing upon final plat approval of the first phase
of any mobile home park, a monthly annexation fee, as determined at time of
annexation through the agreement, shall be assessed per unit (any mobile home
hooked up to Village sewer and water utilities and located within the park,
whether sold and occupied or not).
   (E)   Revocation And Suspension: The Village Board of Trustees is hereby
authorized to revoke any license issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter
if after due investigation and public hearing they determine that the holder
thereof has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, or that any mobile
home, or mobile home park, is being maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe
manner or is a nuisance. Said hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
procedure to be adopted by said Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Single Ownership: Each licensed mobile home park shall be licensed and
maintained as a single unit and the entire tract shall remain in single
ownership.
   (G)   Special Assessments: All special assessments levied by the Village
shall be levied against the entire tract comprising the mobile home park.
   (H)   Restriction: Licenses issued under the terms of this chapter convey no
right to erect any building, to do any plumbing or electrical work without
first obtaining a permit and having proper inspection to meet all codes of the
Village. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-5: ZONING OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   (A)   No mobile home park or extension thereof shall be allowed until and
unless a special use permit has been granted therefor, in accordance with the
zoning regulations of the Village as specified under section
9-14-12 of this title. The Planning Commission may, in conformance with the
zoning regulations, recommend, and the Board of Trustees may issue, through the
Code Enforcement Officer, a license for the location of a mobile home park.
   (B)   No mobile home park shall be located within the Village limits unless
Village water and sewer connections and fire protection facilities are
available. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   All utilities, including, but not limited to, water, sewer, electric,
gas, telephone, and cable television must be located in underground
unobstructable locations including individual connections to each dwelling unit
pad. Each dwelling unit shall be individually metered for utility service.
   (B)   No mobile home park shall be located in an area where the conditions
of soil, ground water level, drainage or topography may cause hazard to the
property, health or safety of the occupants. The park shall be located on a
well drained site, properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from
stagnant pools of water. The development shall be laid out to avoid adversely
affecting ground water and aquifer recharge, to reduce cut and fill, to avoid
unnecessary impervious cover, to prevent flooding, to provide adequate access
to lots and sites, and to mitigate adverse effects of shadow, noise, odor,
traffic, drainage, and utilities on neighboring properties. An underground
storm sewer system shall be provided, in accordance with Village standards, to
serve any mobile home development.
   (C)   No mobile home park shall be located such that it is exposed to
objectionable smoke, dust, noise, odors, vibrations or other adverse
influences.
   (D)   Ingress and egress to a mobile home park shall be provided in such a
manner to facilitate access by emergency vehicles, and should be designed to
provide efficient and safe traffic circulation in the vicinity.
   (E)   No part of any mobile home park shall be used for nonresidential
purposes except accessory uses that are required to directly serve mobile home
park residents and for management and maintenance of the mobile home park.
   (F)   Due to the unique nature of mobile home construction and installation,
all mobile home parks shall have safety buildings available for park residents
during severe weather or other emergencies.
   (G)   All developments shall be required to provide at least twenty five
percent (25%) of the buildable land area as open space. Developed open space
shall be designed to provide active recreational facilities to serve the
residents of the area. Such facilities shall be centrally located on the site
and readily accessible to all mobile home occupants. Undeveloped open space
shall be designed to preserve important site amenities or environmentally
sensitive areas. Retention and detention areas shall not be considered as
fulfilling any portion of open space requirements.
   (H)   Landscaping shall be provided as part of the site plan and subdivision
design. It shall be provided comprehensively throughout the site, integrating
the various elements of site design, preserving and enhancing the particular
identity of the site, and creating a pleasing site character. Landscaping shall
include plant materials such as trees, shrubs, ground covers, perennials, and
annuals, and other materials such as rocks, water, sculpture, art, walls,
fences and paving materials.
   (I)   A landscape plan prepared by a qualified expert shall be submitted
with each subdivision development request. The plan shall identify existing and
proposed trees, shrubs, and ground covers, natural features such as rock
outcroppings, and other landscaping elements. The plan shall show where they
are or will be located and planting and/or construction details. Special
attention shall be paid so as to substantially screen the development from all
adjoining zoning districts and land uses as outlined in section 
9-3-5 of this title.
   (J)   Lot layout shall provide for clustering or various angle arrangements
of the lots, as opposed to a grid pattern.
   (K)   Petitioners and owners of the development shall comply with any and
all ordinances of the Village in constructing any improvements within the park,
including, but not limited to, all of the building, plumbing, electrical, as
well as the zoning ordinances, subdivision ordinances and stormwater ordinance
of the Village. Specific fees applicable to the development will include the
current plat fee, annexation fee, cost allocation recapture fee and water and
sewer tap on fees for each home.
   (L)   The construction of public and private streets and all extensions of
existing sanitary, storm and water mains necessary to serve the property shall
be constructed and installed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Village, but at the expense of the owners. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-
18-2017)
9-5-7: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   (A)   The water and sanitary sewer systems within the limits of the park
property, with the exception of the certain water and sewer mains as identified
by the Village, shall be owned and maintained by the park.
   (B)   The Village shall identify, own and maintain the water and sewer mains
within the park. The park shall provide a perpetual easement of access to the
Village for the repair and maintenance of said water and sewer mains. Said
easement shall be recorded with the Kankakee County Recorder of Deeds. No
structures shall be placed on the Village's utility easements.
   (C)   The park is responsible for providing properly working and accessible
water service related portions of their system, keeping the same maintained and
repaired at all times. These portions shall include, but are not limited to,
private mains, curb stops, water shut off boxes and service lines to individual
homes.
   (D)   If the Village determines that certain measures are required for the
maintenance of the water or sanitary sewer system within the park, excepting
those owned and maintained by the Village, the Village shall notify the park.
The park shall undertake such measures at the park's expense. If, after
notification, the park fails to perform said measures, the Village shall be
granted total access to perform or have performed the necessary measures and
bill the expense to the park.
   (E)   The Village shall have the right to set water and sewer rates, to read
individual water meters, and to collect water usage fees from the individual
residents and/or other uses at the park. Said rates shall be the same as rates
set within the Village for single-family detached housing.
   (F)   The Village shall have access to any of the residential water meters
located within the park for the purpose of maintenance, repair and/or
replacements. This access shall be provided at any time that the Village
requests it, utilizing the maintenance personnel of said park. Any maintenance
and/or removal of water meters shall be performed by the park personnel, but
only at the request of and under the direct supervision of the Grant Park Water
Department. The Village shall incur no financial obligation as a result of any
of the aforesaid maintenance and/or replacement work.
   (G)   All water meters shall be installed in weather protected environment
to ensure proper and accurate registration. The Village shall incur no
financial obligations in the event that a frozen or abused water meter
replacement is deemed necessary. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-8: MOBILE HOME STAND:
   (A)   Placements: The mobile home stand shall be so placed as to provide for
the practical placement on the site of both the manufactured home and its
appurtenant structures and the retention of the mobile home on the site in a
stable condition and in satisfactory relationship to its surroundings.
   (B)   Location: The location of each mobile home stand shall be at such
elevation, distance, and angle in relation to the access street and the mobile
home lot driveway that placement and removal of the mobile home is practical.
   (C)   Construction: Concrete slab with full continuous perimeter foundation.
   (D)   Gradient: There shall be a minimum of two percent (2%) longitudinal
and adequate crown or cross gradient and surface drainage.
   (E)   Undercarriage: Each mobile home unit shall be skirted via a structural
treatment similar to that of the home unit or a landscaping treatment
conforming to the subdivision landscaping plan in such a manner so as not to
permit the undercarriage of the unit to be visible. Each unit shall have its
wheels removed and appropriate means of anchoring the units shall be provided
so as to reduce the potential for damage during periods of high winds.
   (F)   Additions To Mobile Homes: The maximum lot coverage of the mobile home
and any additions thereto shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total
lot area. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-9: STORAGE:
   (A)   Storage facilities shall be provided for the active storage of outdoor
equipment, furniture or tools, and for the inactive storage for such materials
which are used only seasonally or infrequently, and cannot be stored in the
manufactured home.
   (B)   Storage facilities shall be designed to enhance the appearance of the
park, constructed out of materials similar to the manufactured home,
coordinated with appropriate landscaping plan, provide for hazardous weather
protection, and must be maintained in coordination with other features of the
manufactured home. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-10: FENCES:
See title 4, chapter 5 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-11: GARBAGE AND WASTE:
   (A)   A sufficient number of adequate fly proof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage and shall be kept in sanitary
condition at all times. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of
as frequently as may be necessary to ensure that the garbage cans shall not
overflow. Garbage containers shall be disposed of in a Village approved manner
which creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health.
   (B)   Garbage and waste areas shall be fenced in and completely screened
from public rights-of-way. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-12: HEALTH, SAFETY, AND GENERAL WELFARE OF RESIDENTS:
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of all litter, rubbish or other
accumulated flammable materials. All buildings and the grounds of the park
shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any
condition that will menace the health of any occupant or the public or
constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   Approved fire hydrants shall be located throughout the mobile home
park and shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500') from any
mobile home. The hydrants shall deliver a minimum of seventy five (75) gallons
of water per minute at a pressure of twenty (20) pounds per square inch at the
highest elevation point of the mobile home park.
   (C)   Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire extinguishers of a
type approved by the State Fire Marshal for use at mobile home parks in good
working order of such number and so located in the park as to satisfy
applicable reasonable regulations of the Fire Departments. No open fires shall
be permitted.
   (D)   No owner or person in charge of any dog, cat or other pet or animal
shall permit it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any
mobile home park.
   (E)   A public safety facility shall be provided to serve the residents of
the mobile home park. Adequate provisions or plans shall be in place to protect
or shelter the residents of the park during severe weather, emergencies, or
other situations which potentially threaten health, safety or welfare.
   (F)   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly and rodent proof and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-13: MANAGEMENT:
   (A)   Each development shall have a responsible attendant or manager in
charge and present at all times. Duties of the attendant or manager will
include the maintenance of the park, its facilities and equipment, in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition, and be answerable for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Each development shall have a building in which shall be located the
office of the person in charge of said park. Within this office, a copy of the
park license and of this chapter shall be posted and the park register shall at
all times be kept.
   (C)   It is the duty of the person in charge, together with the licensee, to
see that the provisions of this chapter are complied with and enforced and to
report promptly to the proper authorities any violation of this chapter or any
other violations of law which may come to his attention. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-5-14: APPLICABILITY OF VILLAGE ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   All ordinances of the Village relating to subdivision controls,
zoning, official plans and buildings, housing and related construction shall be
in effect for all aspects of the development unless provisions are specifically
amended within this chapter.
   (B)   Residents of the park are required to comply with all Village codes
and ordinances unless provisions are specifically amended within this chapter
or pursuant to conditions of the special use permit. All plumbing, electrical,
building and other work on or at any mobile home park licensed under this
chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of this title regulating
such work unless said provisions are specifically made inapplicable under the
terms of this chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-15: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND LIGHTING:
   (A)   The road system shall be designed to permit the safe, efficient, and
orderly movement of traffic; to meet, but not exceed the needs of the present
and future population served; to have a simple and logical pattern; to respect
natural features and topography; to meet the needs of snow plows, fire trucks,
school buses (if necessary), ambulances, and other emergency vehicles; and to
present an attractive streetscape. The road system shall be designed to serve
the needs of the development and to discourage use by through traffic.
   (B)   A separate, secondary private drive shall be provided for emergency
use only. The location and construction of such drive shall be approved by the
Code Enforcement Officer, the Grant Park Police Department, and the Grant Park
Fire Department.
   (C)   Entrance drive into mobile home parks shall have direct access to a
public street and shall be designed to have free traffic flow onto such public
streets. No parking or mobile home lot access driveway shall be permitted off
an entrance drive for a distance of fifty feet (50') from a public right-of-
way.
   (D)   All lots shall front on residential access or subcollector streets,
not on collector streets. The right-of-way of residential streets shall be in
accordance with the subdivision regulations and recommended by the Village
Engineer. All streets shall have paving materials, curbs, gutters, grading,
intersections, off sets, radii of curvature, streetlights, street trees, storm
sewers, and sidewalks accompanying same in accordance with Village design
standards.
   (E)   The internal private street system serving mobile home sites shall
provide convenient circulation by means of minor streets and properly located
collector public streets. Cul-de-sac streets shall be limited to a length of
three hundred feet (300').
   (F)   There will be no dedicated streets within the park. The responsibility
of said roads and their maintenance shall belong to the developer, with the
Village having access and final determinations during special use process.
   (G)   All residential parking will be off street. No on street parking is
allowed.
   (H)   Off street parking shall be provided in front and side yards only. Two
(2) off street parking spaces shall be provided per dwelling unit. The off
street parking surface shall be covered with a concrete surface. Each space
shall not be less than ten feet (10') wide by twenty feet (20') deep. Enclosed
garage space shall not count toward the required off street parking
requirements. Such parking shall be located on the mobile home space rather
than in roadways or access ways and under no circumstances shall such parking
be permitted in public rights- of-way.
   (I)   All sidewalks and driveways shall be concrete and meet Village
standards.
   (J)   All driveways and walkways within the park shall be lighted at night
with electric lamps of not less than fifty (50) watts each (equivalent in gas
lighting), spaced at intervals of not more than one hundred feet (100').
   (K)   Individual walks to each mobile home stand from paved streets or
parking areas are required and shall be a minimum of two feet (2') in width.
   (L)   Common sidewalks are required throughout the mobile home park and
shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in width.
   (M)   No walk shall be used as a drainage way. Sudden changes in alignment
and gradient shall be avoided.
   (N)   Streetlights shall be designed to produce illumination consistent with
Village standards, as approved by the Village Engineer. Potentially hazardous
locations such as intersections, major pedestrian crossings, and portions of
streets abutting service buildings and recreation areas shall be illuminated to
standards as set by the Village Engineer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-16: MOBILE HOME SALES:
Mobile home sales are permitted on a limited basis. One home may be used for a
model, and one model is allowed for each park. This model must follow all
structural and aesthetic guidelines as outlined for a manufactured residence.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-17: REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS:
It shall be the duty of each licensee and permittee to keep a register
containing a record of all mobile home owners and occupants located within the
park. The register shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of each mobile home occupant.
   (B)   The name and address of the owner of each mobile home.
   (C)   The make, model, year and license number of each mobile home or motor
vehicle.
   (D)   The state, territory or country issuing such licenses.
   (E)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home.
The park shall keep a current register available for inspection at all times by
law enforcement officers, public health officials and other Village officials
whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the
register. The register record for each occupant registered shall not be
destroyed for a period of six (6) years following the date of registration.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-18: PERMIT FOR EXISTING PARK:
   (A)   Existing parks shall file an application for a mobile home park permit
in conformity with this chapter within ninety (90) days after the effective
date of this chapter. The complete plan submitted shall show compliance with
all applicable provisions of this chapter except where compliance would
constitute an unreasonable hardship or a special permit annexation specifies
otherwise. A mobile home park permit shall be issued at such time as the
Village Board determines that the existing park conforms fully to the complete
plan submitted with the application.
   (B)   Mobile home parks in existence on the effective date of this chapter
which provide mobile home spaces having a width or area less than that required
may continue to operate with spaces of the existing width and area, provided
that any expansion or reorganization of an existing mobile home park shall in
all respects comply with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-5-19: PENALTY:
Any person who either intentionally or unintentionally violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any
provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-6-1: Districts Established
9-6-2: Zoning Map
9-6-3: Entire Area Zoned
9-6-4: Annexations
9-6-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The Village of Grant Park, for the purpose of this title, is hereby divided
into the following zoning districts:
Residential Districts:
 E-1  Estate Residential District
 R-1  Single-Family Residential District
 R-2  Two-Family Attached Residential District
 R-3  Multiple-Family Residential District
Commercial Districts:
 C-1  Downtown Commercial District
 C-2  Commercial District
Industrial Districts:
 I-1  Light Industrial District
 I-2  Heavy Industrial District
Specialty Districts:
 A-1  Agricultural District
 OS-1 Open Space District
 
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-6-2: ZONING MAP:
   (A)   Authorization: The location and boundaries of the districts
established by this title are indicated upon the map entitled, "Official Zoning
Map, Village of Grant Park, Illinois", which, together with all explanatory
matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this
title.
   (B)   Location Of Map: The official zoning map shall be located in the
Office of the Village Clerk and shall be the final authority as to the current
zoning status of land and buildings, subject to such authorized amendments
which be in effect.
   (C)   Interpretation Of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following
rules shall apply:
      1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      3.   Boundary lines which follow or approximately follow plotted lot
lines of other property lines as identified by the "tax identification number"
of the parcel assigned by the County of Kankakee shall be construed as
following such lines.
      4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      5.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerline of streams, or other bodies of water
shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections (C)1 through (C)3 of this section shall be so
construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by dimensions shown on the map, or in the absence of
dimensions, by the scale of the map.
      7.   Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot in single
ownership on the effective date of this title, the regulations of this title
for either portion of such lot may, at the owner's discretion, apply to the
entire area of the lot or twenty five feet (25') beyond the zoning district
boundary lines, whichever is the lesser distance.
      8.   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and
railroad rights-of-way, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be
deemed to be the district boundary.
      9.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsections (C)1 through (C)8 of this section, the Planning
Commission's decision may be presented to the Village Board in the same matter
as an amendment to this title as outlined in chapter 14 of this title.
   (D)   Vacation Of Public Ways: Whenever any street, alley, or other public
way is vacated in the manner authorized by the law, the zone adjoining each
side of such street, alley, or public way, shall be automatically extended to
the center of such vacation and all areas included in the vacation shall then
and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended zone.
   (E)   Changes: If, by amendment to this title, any change is made in any
district boundary, it shall be shown on the official zoning map. The date of
the latest updating of the official zoning map shall be shown on the face of
the map. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-6-3: ENTIRE AREA ZONED:
It is the intent that the entire area of zoning jurisdiction, including all
land and water areas, streets, alleys, railroads and other rights-of-way, be
included in the districts established by this title. If any area is not shown
on the official zoning map as being included in any district, it shall be
deemed to be in the R-1 Residential District. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-6-4: ANNEXATIONS:
   (A)   Whenever territory is added to the Village by annexation, the zoning
for such territory (including, but not limited to, its zoning district
classification, special uses, and variations) may be established by means of a
preannexation agreement, as provided by law; provided that all otherwise
applicable regulations and procedures of this title have been complied with
prior to the execution of said preannexation agreement.
   (B)   Whenever any parcel of land is hereafter annexed to the Village, in
any manner whatsoever, such territory, upon annexation, shall be classified or
zoned under this title as an R-1 District, except as may be provided for by a
preannexation agreement or an annexation agreement after public hearing by the
Planning Commission. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. E-1 ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Purpose
9-7A-2: Policy
9-7A-3: Uses Permitted
9-7A-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-7A-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-7A-6: Accessory Uses
9-7A-7: Prohibited Uses
9-7A-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-7A-9: Special Provisions
9-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The Residential Zoning District E-1 is hereby established to further the use of
lands optimally suited to neither prime agricultural nor high density urban
uses because of location, topography, soil characteristics, wetness,
vegetation, or other natural or man induced factors and where portions of the
land may be kept open to protect and conserve hilly areas, wetlands, prairies,
wooded regions, and other unique areas for the public benefit and perpetuation
of the diversity of natural ecosystems.
   (A)   To provide lands for large lot, single-family residential uses which
are the optimum use due to topography, soils, natural characteristics, manmade
features, and/or location and existing uses.
   (B)   To provide the opportunity to keep horses, or other large animals, and
the right to practice in a limited manner agriculture, floriculture,
horticulture, cultivation of field or garden crops, and similar related
activities, but within the limits of smaller lots. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the E-1 Estate Residential District, it shall be the
policy of the Village to:
   (A)   Foster uses where adequate police and fire protection are available.
   (B)   Allow a minimum one acre lot and maximum two (2) acre lot for single-
family residential use and other permitted compatible uses where each domicile
may be served by an on site sewage disposal system until such time as Municipal
services are available.
   (C)   Zone E-1 lands least adaptable for sustained long term agriculture
uses and/or least suitable for dense urbanized development because of location,
topography, geology, soil types, hydrologic characteristics, or other natural
features of the land. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure, or premises shall
be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used, except as otherwise provided
in this title for other than one or more of the following specified uses:
Agricultural uses:
Gardening and general farming, for private use only, but not including poultry
and livestock.
Greenhouses for private use only.
Nurseries for private use only.
Public, quasi-public, and governmental buildings and facilities:
Churches and other places of worship.
Municipal buildings.
Public and parochial schools.
Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center buildings.
Residential uses:
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Village Board as allowed in section
9-14-12 of this title:
Cemeteries.
Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis clubs,
swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
Horses, but not more than one per acre, and housed in a barn at least one
hundred feet (100') from any property line. Horses shall not be grazed in a
front or side yard, and overgrazing is prohibited. Approval of the construction
of said barn shall also be part of the special use application. Adequate
trailways or exercise facilities must be demonstrated.
Larger dimensions for the one allowed, detached accessory shed, tool room, or
similar building or structure used for domestic storage or shelter of horses,
per principal building with approval by the Planning Commission and Village
Board.
Larger dimensions for the one allowed, detached garage or portion of principal
building designed, arranged, used, or to be used for the storage of automobiles
of the occupants of the premises, per principal building, but not to exceed the
regulations set forth in section
4-1-19 of this Code unless approved by the Planning Commission and Village
Board.
Nursery schools, day schools, and childcare centers.
Public utility buildings and structures. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Within any development, each such permit shall
be valid for a period of six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than one additional period.
Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental of real
property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the area of
permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than one year and shall not be renewed for more than two (2) successive periods
at the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structural features
inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the conduct of any
business, trade, or industry.
Garages, carports, or other parking areas for the exclusive use of the resident
occupants of the premises, but subject to the requirements of section
4-1-19 of this Code.
Gardening, greenhouse, and other facilities for raising of plant materials,
fruits, and vegetables.
Home occupations in accordance with section
9-3-9 of this title.
Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of chapter 13
of this title.
Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their guests and
set back from every property line at least twenty feet (20'). (Ord. O-9-17-3,
9-18-2017)
9-7A-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-7A-3 through
9-7A-6 of this article, inclusive. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than one acre nor
more than two (2) acres shall be designated, provided, and continuously
maintained for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of two hundred feet
(200') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   (C)   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back not less than fifty
feet (50') from the front lot line. The principal building may not be set back
farther than thirty three percent (33%) of the depth of the lot.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance of not less than twenty feet (20') or ten percent (10%) of the lot
frontage, whichever is greater.
      3.   Rear Yard: All detached, accessory structures shall be set in a
distance of not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
   (D)   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height, and no accessory structure shall exceed twenty feet (20') in
height, except as provided elsewhere in this title.
   (E)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed thirty percent (30%).
   (F)   Minimum Size Of Dwelling: Each single-family detached dwelling, and
any other structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes,
shall contain at least two thousand (2,000) square feet of livable floor area
exclusive of garages and any story below grade. All residential units shall be
required to have a garage in conformance with section
4-1-19 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7A-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (B)   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (C)   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 12 of this title.
   (D)   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used or maintained on any lot
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary purposes.
   (E)   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be parked or stored
only in accordance with the requirements of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
GR249   9-7B.txt ()CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Purpose
9-7B-2: Policy
9-7B-3: Uses Permitted
9-7B-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-7B-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-7B-6: Accessory Uses
9-7B-7: Prohibited Uses
9-7B-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-7B-9: Special Provisions
9-7B-1: PURPOSE:
The Residential District R-1 as hereby established to provide for an
environment of predominately single-family detached dwellings with certain
additional compatible uses which serve the residents living in district. The R-
1 District is also established to implement the purpose and intent for
residential districts where provision for compatible community facilities and
services are available. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the R-1 Single-Family Residential District, it shall
be the policy of the Village to:
   (A)   So locate R-1 Single-Family Residential Districts to other districts
nearby or adjacent to available Municipal police and fire protection so as to
protect these residential areas from the danger of fire, explosion, or noxious
fumes and the irritations of offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, glare,
or other threats to health and well being.
   (B)   So locate R-1 Single-Family Residential Districts where paved roads
meeting current Village standards may serve the residents providing convenience
and safety in transportation where mobility is not impeded and where hazards
and the intensity or potential for accidents are avoided or minimized. (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-3: USES PERMITTED:
Public, quasi-public, and governmental buildings and facilities:
Churches and other places of worship.
Municipal buildings.
Public and parochial schools.
Public libraries.
Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center buildings.
Residential uses:
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Village Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis clubs,
swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
"Group home, small", as defined in chapter 2 of this title and provided no
other group home is established within six hundred feet (600').
Mobile home parks.
Nursery schools and daycare centers, when accessory to the principal residence
on the premises.
Public utility buildings and structures. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Within any development, each such permit shall
be valid for a period of six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than one additional period.
Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental of real
property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the area of
permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than one year and shall not be renewed for more than two (2) successive periods
at the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, and do not involve the conduct of any
business, trade, or industry. See section
4-1-15 of this Code for additional requirements.
Garages, carports, or other parking areas for the exclusive use of the resident
occupants of the premises, but subject to the requirements of section
4-1-19 of this Code.
Gardening, raising of plant material, fruits, and vegetables.
Home occupations.
Keeping of household pets exclusively for the use of personal enjoyment of
residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes as defined as kennels
in chapter 2 of this title.
Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of chapter 13
of this title.
Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their guests, and
in accordance with section
4-9-1 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-7B-3 through
9-7B-6 of this article, inclusively. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than nine
thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet shall be designated, provided, and
continuously maintained for each parcel containing a permitted and special use.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Width: A minimum lot width of eighty feet (80') shall be
provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use. Corner lots
shall have a minimum lot width of one hundred feet (100').
   (C)   Minimum Lot Depth: A minimum lot depth of one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
Reverse corner or double frontage lots shall have a minimum lot depth of one
hundred fifty feet (150').
   (D)   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: All structures shall be set back at least twenty five
feet (25') from the front lot line. Maximum setback shall be twenty five feet
(25') plus ten percent (10%) of the average depth of the lot.
      2.   Side yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance not less than eight feet (8').
      3.   Rear yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear property line.
   (E)   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height. Detached garages shall comply with the height requirements of
section
4-1-19 of this Code.
   (F)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed fifty percent (50%).
   (G)   Minimum Size Of Dwelling: Each single-family detached dwelling, and
any other structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes,
shall contain at least one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet of
livable floor area, exclusive of garages and any story below grade. All
residential units shall be required to have a garage in conformance with
section
 4-1-19 of this Code.
   (H)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building not to exceed thirty percent
(30%). Accessory structures not to exceed ten percent (10%).
   (I)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed sixty percent (60%). (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (B)   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (C)   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used, or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary recreational
purposes.
   (D)   Residential Driveways: Shall be constructed of asphalt or concrete and
meet the conditions set forth in section
9-12-4 of this title.
   (E)   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be parked or stored
only in accordance with the requirements of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
ARTICLE C. R-2 TWO-FAMILY ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7C-1: Purpose
9-7C-2: Policy
9-7C-3: Uses Permitted
9-7C-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-7C-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-7C-6: Accessory Uses
9-7C-7: Prohibited Uses
9-7C-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-7C-9: Special Provisions
9-7C-1: PURPOSE:
The Two-Family Attached Residential District R-2 is hereby established to
provide for an environment of predominately two- family attached dwellings with
certain additional compatible uses which serve the residents living in the
district. The R-2 District is also established to implement the purpose and
intent for residential districts where provision for compatible community
facilities and services are available. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7C-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the R-2 Two-Family Attached Residential District, it
shall be the policy of the Village to:
   (A)   So locate R-2 Districts to other districts nearby or adjacent to
available Municipal police and fire protection so as to protect these
residential areas from the danger of fire, explosion, or noxious fumes and the
irritations of offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, glare, or other
threats to health and well being.
   (B)   So locate R-2 Districts where paved roads meeting current Village
standards may serve the residents providing convenience and safety in
transportation where mobility is not impeded and where hazards and the
intensity or potential for accidents are avoided or minimized. (Ord. O-9-17-3,
9-18-2017)
9-7C-3: USES PERMITTED:
Public, quasi-public, and governmental buildings and facilities:
Churches and other places of worship.
"Group homes, small", as defined in chapter 2 of this title and provided no
other group home is established within six hundred feet (600').
Municipal buildings.
Public and parochial schools.
Public libraries.
Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center buildings.
Residential uses:
Single-family detached dwellings.
Two-family attached dwellings. Any dwelling constructed for the purpose of or
with the potential to be subdivided for individual ownership shall complete the
process of subdividing the lot (as specified under Village subdivision
regulations) prior to certificate of compliance being issued for either unit.
Such process shall be required even in the instance where one owner intends to
own and maintain the entire property and both units, whether owner occupied or
not. The lot shall be equally divided down the common wall by a single straight
line from the lot front to the lot rear property line. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-7C-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis clubs,
swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
Nursery schools and daycare centers, when accessory to the principal residence
on the premises.
One detached accessory shed, toolroom or similar building or structure used for
domestic storage shall be permitted per each individual dwelling unit, under
the specifications and within the requirements as defined under section
9-3-6 of this title.
Public utility buildings and structures. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7C-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Within any development, each such permit shall
be valid for a period of six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than one additional period.
Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental of real
property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the area of
permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than
one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5) successive periods at
the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7C-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structural features
inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the conduct of any
business, trade, or industry. See section
9-3-6 of this title for additional requirements.
Garages, carports, or other parking areas for the exclusive use of the resident
occupants of the premises, but subject to the requirements of section
4-1-19 of this Code.
Gardening, raising of plant material, fruits, and vegetables.
Home occupations.
Keeping of household pets exclusively for the use of personal enjoyment of
residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes as defined as kennels
in chapter 2 of this title.
Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of chapter 13
of this title.
Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their guests, and
in accordance with section
4-9-1 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7C-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-7C-3 through
9-7C-6 of this article, inclusively. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7C-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than twelve
thousand (12,000) square feet shall be designated, provided, and continuously
maintained for each parcel containing a permitted and special use. Attached
two-family lots that are subdivided for individual ownership shall provide half
of the lot area for each dwelling as defined under section
9-7C-3 of this article, but in no case shall this area be less than six
thousand (6,000) square feet per unit.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Width: A minimum lot width of one hundred feet (100')
shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use. Corner
lots shall have a minimum lot width of one hundred twenty feet (120'). Attached
two-family lots that are subdivided for individual ownership shall divide the
width of the lot equally, but in no case shall this width be less than fifty
feet (50') per unit.
   (C)   Minimum Lot Depth: A minimum lot depth of one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
Reverse corner or double frontage lots shall have a minimum lot depth of one
hundred fifty feet (150').
   (D)   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty feet
(30') from the front lot line. Maximum setback shall be thirty feet (30') plus
ten percent (10%) of the average depth of the lot.
      2.   Side yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance not less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear property line.
   (E)   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height. Detached garages shall comply with the height requirements of
section
4-1-19 of this Code.
   (F)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed fifty percent (50%).
   (G)   Minimum Size Of Dwelling: Each attached dwelling unit, and any other
structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes, shall contain
at least one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of livable floor area,
exclusive of garages and any story below grade. All residential units shall be
required to have a garage in conformance with section
4-1-19 of this Code.
   (H)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building not to exceed thirty percent
(30%). Accessory buildings not to exceed ten percent (10%).
   (I)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed sixty percent (60%).
   (J)   Common Wall: The common wall constructed to divide the building and
create separate dwelling units shall be a solid, UL approved fire separation
wall, extending from its footing below grade to the underside of floor/roof,
containing no plumbing or electrical work. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7C-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (B)   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (C)   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 12 of this title.
   (D)   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used, or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary recreational
purposes.
   (E)   Residential Driveways: Shall be constructed of asphalt or concrete and
meet the conditions set forth in section
9-12-4 of this title.
   (F)   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be parked or stored
only in accordance with the requirements of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
GR249   9-7D.txt ()CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE D. R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7D-1: Purpose
9-7D-2: Policy
9-7D-3: Uses Permitted
9-7D-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-7D-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-7D-6: Accessory Uses
9-7D-7: Prohibited Uses
9-7D-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-7D-9: Special Provisions
9-7D-1: PURPOSE:
The Multiple-Family Residential District R-3 is hereby established to permit
existing multi-family developments and to provide for an environment of
predominately attached, semiattached and two-family attached dwellings with
certain additional compatible uses which serve the residents living in the
district. The R-3 District is also established to implement the purpose and
intent for residential districts by providing an appropriate density where
provision for compatible community facilities and services are available. (Ord.
O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District, it
shall be the policy of the Village to:
   (A)   So locate R-3 Districts to other districts nearby or adjacent to
available Municipal police and fire protection so as to protect these
residential areas from the danger of fire, explosion, or noxious fumes and the
irritations of offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, glare, or other
threats to health and well being.
   (B)   So locate R-3 Districts where paved roads meeting current Village
standards may serve the residents providing convenience and safety in
transportation where mobility is not impeded and where hazards and the
intensity or potential for accidents are avoided or minimized.
   (C)   So locate R-3 Districts to minimize its effects on single- family
detached developments. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-3: USES PERMITTED:
Public, quasi-public, and governmental buildings and facilities:
Churches and other places of worship.
Group homes, large and small, as defined in chapter 2 of this title and
provided no other group home is established within six hundred feet (600').
Municipal buildings.
Public and parochial schools.
Public libraries.
Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center buildings.
Residential uses:
Apartment buildings and multiple-unit dwellings.
Attached dwellings.
Multi-family condominium or townhouse dwellings. Any dwelling constructed for
the purpose of or with the potential to be subdivided for individual ownership
shall complete the process of subdividing the property (as specified under
Village subdivision regulations) prior to certificate of compliance being
issued for any unit.
Semiattached dwellings.
Two-family attached dwellings and the property is under single ownership. (Ord.
O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis clubs,
swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
Nursery school, day nursery, and childcare center, but not allowed in a multi-
family residence unit.
Public utility buildings and structures. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Within any development, each such permit shall
be valid for a period of six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than one additional period.
Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental of real
property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the area of
permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than one year and shall not be renewed for more than two (2) successive periods
at the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the
conduct of any business, trade, or industry. See section
9-3-6 of this title for additional requirements.
Detached garages or structures associated with automobile storage for the
exclusive use of residential occupants of the premises of residential uses,
providing parking space quantity to meet requirements based on the number of
units in a building, but only in the event that attached garages have not been
provided. Said garages may exceed the floor dimension limitations stipulated in
section
4-1-19 of this Code, by determination of the Code Enforcement Officer and with
approval of the Planning Commission and Village Board.
Home occupation.
Keeping of household pets exclusively for the use of personal enjoyment of
residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes as defined as kennels
in chapter 2 of this title.
Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of chapter 13
of this title.
Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their guests,
following guidelines as established under section
4-9-1 of this Code and set back from every property line at least twenty feet
(20'). (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
 9-7D-3 through
9-7D-6 of this article, inclusively. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet shall be designated, provided, and continuously
maintained for each parcel containing a multi-family dwelling and special use.
This requirement shall not pertain to separate ownership conveyances for
individual attached, semiattached or two-family dwelling units, although as a
whole development, these uses must meet this requirement. For multi-family
buildings, a ground area of four thousand (4,000) square feet shall be required
for each dwelling unit in the building.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Width: A minimum lot width of one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
Corner lots shall contain a minimum of one hundred forty four feet (144') of
lot width. No lots shall be resubdivided for individual ownership of dwelling
units with less than twenty feet (20') of lot width.
   (C)   Minimum Lot Depth: A minimum lot depth of one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
Reverse corner or double frontage lots shall have a minimum lot depth of one
hundred fifty feet (150').
   (D)   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty feet
(30') from the front lot line. Maximum setback shall be thirty feet (30') plus
ten percent (10%) of the average depth of the lot.
      2.   Side yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance not less than fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Rear yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than forty feet (40') from the rear property line.
   (E)   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height. Approved detached garages for multiple tenant usage shall be
of such height as determined at time of approval, but shall not exceed the
height of the principal structure.
   (F)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed seventy percent (70%).
   (G)   Minimum Size Of Dwelling: Each dwelling shall contain at least the
following square feet of floor area for each dwelling unit:
      1.   For one and two (2) bedroom units: One thousand (1,000) square feet.
      2.   For three (3) or more bedroom units: One thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet.
   (H)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building not to exceed thirty percent
(30%). The total of all accessory buildings not to exceed ten percent (10%).
   (I)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed sixty percent (60%). The
balance of the lot shall be used for, but not limited to, open space and yard
recreation space.
   (J)   Minimum Landscaped Area: Two percent (2%) of the total square footage
of the real property shall be set aside as a decorative landscaped area on the
street side. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-7D-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (B)   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (C)   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 12 of this title.
   (D)   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall not be parked or
stored on a zoning lot in an R-3 District.
   (E)   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used, or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary recreational
purposes.
   (F)   Screening: Any screening required of service yards or other areas
which tend to be unsightly shall be accomplished by walls, fencing, planting,
or a combination of these as outlined in section
9-3-5 of this title. Screening must enhance architectural features and
strengthen vistas along important ways of approach or entry. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-
18-2017)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Purpose
9-8A-2: Policy
9-8A-3: Uses Permitted
9-8A-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-8A-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-8A-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
9-8A-7: Prohibited Uses
9-8A-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-8A-9: Special Provisions
9-8A-1: PURPOSE:
To preserve the historical characteristics and heritage of the traditional
central commercial area of the Village, which by its nature requires special
regulation design to enhance the area and ensure that future development or
redevelopment is not incompatible with the historical character of the area.
The area included within this district has historical significance as being the
commercial business center of the Village as it was originally laid out. (Ord.
O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of commercial districts and preserve the C-1 Downtown
Commercial District, it shall be the policy of the Village to:
   (A)   Ensure that all redevelopment or new development is consistent in
appearance with surrounding buildings and historical characteristics of the
area.
   (B)   Promote sound community planning to preserve the heritage, aesthetic
interest, values, and customs related to the historic significance of the area.
   (C)   Preserve the economic stability of retail trade and personal service
business of the traditional Downtown Commercial District. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-8A-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure, or premises shall
be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied or used, except as otherwise provided
in this title for other than one or more of the following uses:
Business service establishments:
Banks.
Business and management consultants.
Business office.
Chamber of commerce.
Charitable organization.
Civic association.
Credit agency.
Currency exchange.
Employment agency.
Financial institution.
Insurance agency.
Investment carrier.
Investment company.
Labor union and organization.
Loan agency.
Mail order house.
Merchants association.
News syndicate.
Newspaper office.
Parking lot, commercial.
Picture framing.
Professional membership association.
Radio and television service and repair.
Real estate office.
Savings and loan.
Security and commodity broker.
Social service and fraternal association.
Theater, indoor only.
Trade association.
Video rental establishments, including repair of video equipment.
Personal service establishments which perform services on the premises:
Beauty parlor.
Dry cleaner.
General minor repair or fix it shop, excluding automobile repair.
Health and fitness club.
Interior decorating shop, including upholstering and drapery making.
Laundry.
Meeting hall.
Schools or studios for art, music or dance.
Tailor or dressmaker.
Tanning parlor.
Travel bureau.
Undertaking establishment and funeral parlor.
Professional office establishments:
Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping.
Artists and industrial designers.
Attorney and law office.
Chiropractor's office.
Dentist's office.
Doctor's, surgeon's and/or physician's office.
Engineering and architectural services.
Land surveyors.
Medical and dental clinics.
Optician's office.
Osteopath's office.
Private clinic.
Professional consultants.
Professional offices.
Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
Churches.
Essential services (as defined in chapter 2 of this title).
Government buildings and facilities.
Museum, art gallery.
Office building.
Post Office.
Public utility establishment.
Retail businesses - alcohol sales and consumption, as permitted by the Liquor
Commissioner.
Retail businesses which supply commodities on the premises:
Antique store.
Apparel store.
Appliance store.
Art and school supply store.
Art gallery.
Bakery, in which the manufacture of goods is limited to goods retailed on the
premises only.
Bicycle store - retail, rental and repair.
Book and stationery store.
Business machine store.
Camera store and photographic store.
Candy and confectionery store.
China and glassware store.
Clothing and costume rental stores.
Dairy products store.
Delicatessen.
Department store.
Drapery store.
Drugstore.
Dry goods store.
Floor coverings, including rugs and carpets.
Floral shop.
Furniture store.
Garden supply, tool and seed stores.
General retail store.
Gift shop.
Grocery and food store.
Hardware store.
Hobby shop.
Ice cream store.
Jewelry store.
Leather goods and luggage store.
Linoleum and tile store.
Locksmith.
Meat market.
Merchandising machines, sale of products.
Music store.
Newsstand.
Office supplies and stationery store.
Orthopedic and medical appliance supply store.
Paint and wallpaper store.
Pet shop.
Photography studio.
Plumbing and heating shop.
Radio and television sales.
Record shop.
Restaurants.
Shoe store.
Sporting goods store.
Tobacco shop.
Toy store.
Variety store. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Automobile parts and supply store, automobile repair (minor), automobile sales.
Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges as permitted by the Liquor Commissioner.
Billiard and pool hall.
Drive-in banking and saving and loan facilities.
Drive-in restaurants.
Drive-in uses.
Hotel.
Laboratories, medical and dental.
Nursery school, day nursery, and childcare center.
Planned commercial development group.
Residence when behind or on the second floor of a commercial establishment.
Scientific research agencies. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Christmas tree sales, each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than sixty (60) days.
Parking lot designated for a special event; provided, however, that each permit
shall be valid only for the duration of the designated special event.
Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Within any development, each such permit shall
be valid for a period of six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than one additional period.
Temporary mobile signs as provided in chapter 13 of this title.
Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental of real
property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the area of
permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than one year and shall not be renewed for more than two (2) successive periods
at the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same zoning lot, and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use. See section
9-3-6 of this title for additional requirements. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-8A-3 through
9-8A-6 of this article, inclusive. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand (6,000) square feet of separate ground
area shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of forty feet (40') shall
be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special use.
   (C)   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back the same distance as
the setback from the front lot line as the structures located on adjacent
parcels and as approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      2.   Side Yard: No side yards shall be required except ten feet (10')
shall be provided where the side yard abuts an R zone unless zones are divided
by a street or alley. However, in all cases, adequate provision for maintenance
of side walls and internal vehicular circulation shall be made.
      3.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set back at least ten feet (10')
from the rear lot line. Rear yards that abut an R zone shall provide twenty
five feet (25') except where zones are divided by a street or alley.
   (D)   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof shall exceed a height
of thirty five feet (35').
   (E)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed one hundred percent (100%).
   (F)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building and any accessory structures
combined may not exceed fifty percent (50%). The balance of the lot shall be
used for, but not limited to, parking, open space and yard recreation space.
   (G)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed eighty percent (80%). The
balance of the lot shall be used for, but not limited to, open space and yard
recreation space. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8A-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
   (B)   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (C)   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (D)   Scope Of Operations: All business establishments shall be retail trade
or service establishments dealing directly with consumers. All business,
servicing or processing, except for off street parking or loading, shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings. The Village Board may waive
this provision by designating certain days on which business establishments may
conduct their businesses outside the building or structure.
   (E)   Screening: Where a commercial or office use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in section
9-3-5 of this title. Any screening required of service yards or other areas
which tend to be unsightly shall be accomplished by walls, fencing, planting,
or a combination of these as outlined in section
9-3-5 of this title. Screening must enhance architectural features and
strengthen vista along important ways of approach or entry.
   (F)   Lighting: Lighting of the facility and parking areas shall be directed
away from surrounding properties, and shall meet specifications as set by the
Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
GR249   9-8B.txt ()CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8B-1: Purpose
9-8B-2: Policy
9-8B-3: Uses Permitted
9-8B-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-8B-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-8B-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
9-8B-7: Prohibited Uses
9-8B-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-8B-9: Special Provisions
9-8B-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   To promote areas which primarily serve the needs of motorists in a
manner conducive to generating business development.
   (B)   To promote regulations for highway associated uses through adequately
sized parcels of land allowing for setbacks, clear vision and safe ingress and
egress. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the C-2 Commercial District, it shall be the policy
of the Village to:
   (A)   Promote the grouping of C-2 uses to major thoroughfares and to
discourage the hazards to safety and nuisance of traffic congestion along
public streets.
   (B)   Require adequate off street parking and limited access to road through
the use of frontage roads. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building enlarged, occupied, or used,
except as otherwise provided in this title, for other than one or more of the
following specified uses:
Any use allowed in the C-1 Downtown Commercial District.
Business service establishment which performs services on the premises:
Automobile diagnostic center or clinic.
Automobile repair, minor.
Automobile undercoating establishment.
Bowling alley.
Equipment rental and leasing service.
Funeral home.
Lawn mowing repair service.
Motel.
Motorcycle service and repair.
Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
Ambulance service.
"Essential services", as defined in chapter 2 of this title.
Lodge or fraternal organizations.
Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities permitted in the
C-1 District.
Public service or Municipal garage.
Retail business - alcohol sales and consumption, subject to approval by the
Liquor Commissioner:
Ancillary use in restaurants. Establishments serving meals in a permanent
building other than "drive-ins" with the serving of alcohol drinks from only a
service bar as an ancillary use not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the retail
sales of the establishment.
Package liquor sales.
Retail business, which supplies commodities on the premises:
Agriculture implement sales and service.
Automobile accessories, parts, and supplies stores.
Boat sales and rentals.
Building services and supplies.
Camper sales.
Motor vehicle dealer and motor home dealer.
Motorcycle sales.
Restaurants.
Tire, battery, and accessory dealer.
Used car lot. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Adult oriented establishments, as identified and under specific additional
regulations of section
9-3-10 of this title.
Airports.
Animal hospital.
Assisted living center.
Automobile laundry or car wash.
Automobile service station.
Automotive repair, major.
Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges as approved by the Liquor Commissioner.
Commercial recreational uses.
Drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, and other drive-in uses when acting as a
primary use in itself and not accessory to a permitted or special use.
Drive-in uses.
Hospitals.
Lumberyard.
Mini warehouses for private storage.
Mobile home dealer.
Outdoor storage. All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and
products shall be enclosed by a fence, wall, or plant materials adequate to
conceal such facilities from adjacent properties and the public right-of-way.
Residence, secondary to the business use of the premises and not located below
the second floor above ground level of the building.
Tattoo parlors.
Truck stop terminals. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
C-1 District temporary permitted uses. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same permitted use or special use. See section
9-3-6 of this title for additional requirements. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-8B-3 through
9-8B-6 of this article, inclusive. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet of separate
ground area shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special
use.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of one hundred twenty
feet (120') shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special
use. Corner lots shall have a minimum of one hundred forty four feet (144') of
lot width.
   (C)   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty feet
(30') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: All structures shall be set back at least five feet (5')
from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: All structures shall be set in from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than fifty feet (50').
      4.   Transitional yard: Where properties in the C-2 District are
adjoining other zoning districts or across road right-of-way from other zoning
districts, the required yards shall be at least equal in dimension to the
adjoining yards in the adjoining district(s) or the front yards in the district
(s) separated from the property by road right-of-way. Where yards in the C-
2 District exceed the requirements of the adjoining district(s), the yards of
the C-2 District shall apply.
   (D)   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof, shall exceed a height
of thirty five feet (35'), and no accessory structure shall exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height.
   (E)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed one hundred percent (100%).
   (F)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building not to exceed thirty percent
(30%). The total of all accessory buildings not to exceed ten percent (10%).
   (G)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed eighty percent (80%). The
balance of the lot shall be used for, but not limited to, open space and yard
recreation space.
   (H)   Minimum Landscaped Area: Two percent (2%) of the total square footage
of the real property shall be set aside as a decorative landscaped area on the
street side. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-8B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Outdoor Storage: Shall not be placed within any required front or side
yard and shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from the rear lot line.
   (B)   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent durable concrete or asphalt surface, and shall be graded and drained
as to dispose of all surface water.
   (C)   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (D)   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (E)   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces.
   (F)   Screening: Where a commercial or office use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in section
9-3-5 of this title. Any screening required of service yards or other areas
which tend to be unsightly shall be accomplished by walls, fencing, planting or
a combination of these as outlined in section
9-3-5 of this title. Screening must enhance architectural features and
strengthen vistas along important ways of approach or entry.
   (G)   Lighting: Lighting of the facilities and parking areas shall be
directed away from surrounding properties, and shall meet specifications as
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (H)   Performance Standards: Commercial establishments shall comply with the
provisions of performance standards as outlined in chapter 9, article C of this
title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9A-1: Purpose
9-9A-2: Policy
9-9A-3: Uses Permitted
9-9A-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-9A-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-9A-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
9-9A-7: Prohibited Uses
9-9A-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-9A-9: Special Provisions
9-9A-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   To provide for lands for development by industrial firms that have
high standards of performance that can be located in relatively close proximity
to residential and business uses.
   (B)   To provide regulations that are designed to permit the operations of
most manufacturing, wholesaling and warehousing activities with adequate
protection to adjacent district uses and sufficient control of external effects
to protect one industry from another.
   (C)   To provide some retail uses that service industrial uses within the
industrial areas or that do not depend upon the direct visits of retail
customers. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the I-1 Light Industrial District, it shall be the
policy of the Village to:
   (A)   Promote industrial development in Municipal planned industrial areas.
   (B)   Locate industrial uses on lands suitable for those purposes, yet at
locations that would not be harmful or disadvantageous to nearby or adjacent
lands.
   (C)   So locate the I-1 Light Industrial District to available Municipal
police and fire protection so as to protect these areas from the dangers of
fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other threats to health and well being.
   (D)   Encourage the grouping of compatible industrial activities, thereby
promoting convenience, efficiency and safety in transportation.
   (E)   So locate the I-1 Light Industrial District where existing paved roads
may provide convenience, efficiency, and safety in transportation.
   (F)   Discourage the intrusion of residential and commercial uses which are
noncompatible with I-1 uses.
   (G)   Locate all I-1 Districts within current Municipal water sewerage
disposal service areas. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure, or premises shall
be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used, except as otherwise provided
in this title, for other than one or more of the following specified uses:
Industrial type uses:
All low nuisance, light manufacturing and industrial activities, not expressly
prohibited in section
9-9A-7 of this article including fabrication, processing, assembly,
disassembly, repairing, cleaning, servicing, testing, packaging and storage of
materials, products and goods that can be conducted wholly within enclosed
buildings.
Fertilizer and seed sales.
Grain storage.
Laboratories and research firms involved in a research, experimentation or
testing of materials, goods or products.
Printing, publishing, or lithography establishments.
Vocational schools.
Miscellaneous uses:
Automobile service station.
Contractor offices.
Manufactured housing sales.
Meeting halls.
Professional offices.
Restaurant.
Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
Animal pounds and shelters.
"Essential services", as defined in chapter 2 of this title.
Office building.
Public service or Municipal garage.
Public utility establishment.
Vocational school.
Wholesale and warehouse uses:
Direct selling establishments, where products are stored and distributed, but
not displayed for retail sales.
Establishments that warehouse and distribute beverages.
Mini warehouses.
Wholesale and warehouse establishments that deal in commodities which are the
product of a use permitted in the I-1 District. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Adult oriented establishments, as identified and under additional specific
regulations of section
9-3-10 of this title.
Medical cannabis facilities provided the facilities otherwise comply with the
provisions of chapter 17 of this title.
Outdoor storage, including contractors' yards.
Recreational uses (commercial or private).
Residence of the proprietor, caretaker or watchman, when located on the
premises of the commercial or industrial use.
Service retail businesses, such as, but not limited to:
Animal hospitals.
Automobile painting, repair, major and minor, including body repair shops, but
excluding salvage yards.
Banks, savings and loans.
Blueprinting establishments.
Medical clinics.
Tattoo parlors. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of six (6) months and shall not be renewed for more than one additional period.
Temporary office or residence both incidental and necessary for the sale,
maintenance, or rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location
of the office and the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be
valid for a period of six (6) months and shall not be renewed for more than two
(2) successive periods at the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same parcel, and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-9A-3 through
9-9A-6 of this article, inclusive.
Any use that creates any external odor, smoke, dust, noise or glare or that
involves the use of any radioactive or highly toxic materials, as determined by
the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet of separate
ground area shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special
use.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of one hundred twenty
feet (120') shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special
use. Corner lots shall have a minimum of one hundred forty four feet (144') of
lot width.
   (C)   Minimum Lot Depth: A minimum lot depth of one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   (D)   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: All structures shall be set back at least fifty feet
(50') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: All structures shall be set back at least five feet (5')
from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: All structures shall be set in from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Transitional yard: Where properties in the I-1 District are
adjoining a residential or commercial district, a yard shall be provided along
such side lot line, not less than thirty feet (30') in width. Where properties
in the I-1 District are adjoining or across road rights-of-way from commercial
or residential zoning districts, or across road rights-of-way from other zoning
districts, the required yards shall be at least equal in dimension to the
adjoining yards in the adjoining district(s) or the front yards in the district
(s) separated from the property by road rights-of-way. Where yards in the I-
1 District exceed the requirements of the adjoining district(s), the yards of
the I-1 District shall apply.
   (E)   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof shall exceed a height
of fifty feet (50').
   (F)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed eighty percent (80%).
   (G)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building not to exceed thirty percent
(30%). The total of all accessory buildings not to exceed ten percent (10%).
   (H)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed eighty percent (80%).
   (I)   Minimum Landscaped Area: Two percent (2%) of the total square footage
of the real property shall be set aside as a decorative landscaped area,
enhancing the street side of the property, and as approved by the Code
Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9A-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Warehouse And Storage Facilities: Warehouse and storage facility
functions shall be totally enclosed and conducted within buildings and
structures.
   (B)   Business Servicing Or Processing: All business servicing or
processing, except for off street parking and off street loading shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
   (C)   Outside Storage: All outside storage of goods, materials and products
shall be screened in accordance with section
9-3-5 of this title. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from
surrounding properties.
   (D)   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent durable concrete or asphalt surface, and shall be graded and drained
as to dispose of all surface water.
   (E)   Curb, Gutter, Storm Drainage And Entrance Curbs: Required on all
street frontages and shall meet the approval of the Village Engineer and
Village standards.
   (F)   Parking And Loading Requirements: In accordance with the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (G)   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (H)   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces.
   (I)   Screening: Where a commercial or industrial use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in section
9-3-5 of this title. Any screening required of service yards or other areas
which tend to be unsightly shall be accomplished by walls, fencing, planting or
a combination of these as outlined in section
9-3-5 of this title. Screening must enhance architectural features and
strengthen vistas along important ways of approach or entry.
   (J)   Enclosure Of Use: All industrial or commercial operations shall take
place within completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise specified.
   (K)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed shall comply
with the provisions of performance standards as outlined in article C of this
chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
GR249   9-9B.txt ()CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9B-1: Purpose
9-9B-2: Policy
9-9B-3: Uses Permitted
9-9B-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-9B-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-9B-6: Accessory Uses
9-9B-7: Prohibited Uses
9-9B-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-9B-9: Special Provisions
9-9B-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   To provide for lands for development by most types of industrial
firms.
   (B)   To provide regulations that are designed to permit operations of most
industrial activities with adequate protection to adjacent district uses and
sufficient control of external effects to protect one industry from another
within the district. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the I-2 District, it shall be the policy of the
Village to:
   (A)   Promote industrial development in Municipal planned industrial areas.
   (B)   Locate industrial uses on lands suitable for those purposes, yet at
locations that would not be harmful or disadvantageous to nearby or adjacent
lands.
   (C)   So locate the I-2 District to available Municipal police and fire
protection so as to protect these areas from the dangers of fire, explosion,
noxious fumes and other threats to health and well being.
   (D)   Encourage the grouping of compatible industrial activities, thereby
promoting convenience, efficiency and safety in transportation.
   (E)   So locate the I-2 District where existing paved roads may provide
convenience, efficiency and safety in transportation.
   (F)   Discourage the intrusion of residential and commercial uses which are
noncompatible with I-2 uses. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure or premises shall
be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used, except as otherwise provided
in this title, for other than one or more of the following specified uses:
Adult oriented establishments, as identified and under specific additional
regulations of section
9-3-10 of this title.
Industrial and manufacturing type uses:
Abrasive manufacturing.
Bakeries.
Boot and shoe manufacturing.
Bottling companies.
Dairy products processing.
Dry cleaning establishments and laundries employing more than ten (10) persons.
Electronic and scientific precision instruments manufacturing.
Electroplating.
Food manufacture, packaging and processing.
Furniture, bedding, and carpet manufacturing.
General manufacturing.
Glass products production and sales.
Light machinery production.
Lithographing.
Machine shop.
Paper products manufacturing.
Plastics processing.
Pottery and ceramics manufacturing.
Printing and publishing establishments.
Wearing apparel manufacturing.
Woodworking.
Miscellaneous uses:
Freight terminals, including air, motor and railroad.
Parking lots and garages, principal.
Radio and television stations and studios.
Schools - vocational or trade.
Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
Banks and financial institutions.
Business, professional, medical and dental offices.
Civic buildings.
Wholesale and warehouse uses:
Building materials and products sales and storage.
Cartage and express facilities.
Warehouses, storage, and distribution facilities. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Antenna towers in excess of sixty feet (60') in height, as measured from ground
level.
Industrial or manufacturing uses:
Asphalt products manufacturing.
Boiler and tank manufacturing.
Brick and structural clay products manufacturing.
Chemical and processing manufacturing.
Concrete mixing plants.
Feed mills.
Foundries and forge plants.
Grain storage and processing.
Heavy machinery production.
Leather tanning and processing.
Meatpacking.
Metal reduction and refinement.
Metal stamping.
Petroleum products processing and storage.
Petroleum refining.
Rubber processing and manufacturing.
Steel manufacturing.
Stone products manufacturing.
Medical cannabis facilities provided the facilities otherwise comply with the
provisions of chapter 17 of this title.
Miscellaneous uses:
Air, motor and railroad freight terminals.
Airports and heliports.
Automobile or truck service stations, repair facilities and car washes used in
conjunction with a service station.
Bulk storage of petroleum products.
Car washes.
Eating and drinking establishments.
Fuel and ice sales.
Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles, including body
repair, painting and engine rebuilding.
Health clubs.
Mining operations.
Planned unit developments.
Public and private utility facilities.
Recreation and social facilities.
Stadiums. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of six (6) months and shall not be renewed for more than one additional period.
Temporary office or residence both incidental and necessary for the sale,
maintenance, or rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location
of the office and the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be
valid for a period of six (6) months and shall not be renewed for more than two
(2) successive periods at the same location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same parcel and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-9B-3 through
9-9B-6 of this article, inclusive.
Any use that creates any external odor, smoke, dust, noise or glare or that
involves the use of any radioactive or highly toxic materials, as determined by
the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Lot Area: One acre of separate ground area shall be provided
for each parcel used for a permitted or special use.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of one hundred fifty feet
(150') shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special use.
Corner lots shall contain a minimum of one hundred seventy feet (170') of
width.
   (C)   Minimum Lot Depth: A minimum lot depth of one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   (D)   Yards:
      1.   Yards Facing Existing Or Proposed Roadways (Not Including Interior
Circulation Roads Or Drive Within An Individual Tract): There shall be a
required yard adjacent to each existing or proposed roadway which bounds an
individual tract. Such required yard shall not be less than one hundred feet
(100') in depth; provided, however, that such a yard located across a street
from a residential district shall not be less than one hundred fifty feet
(150') in depth.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set back not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the side lot line, except where side lot line abuts upon a
residential district, the required side yard shall be not less than one hundred
feet (100').
      3.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set back not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the rear lot line, except where rear lot line abuts upon a
residential district, the required rear yard shall be not less than one hundred
feet (100').
   (E)   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof, shall exceed a height
of fifty feet (50').
   (F)   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed seventy percent (70%).
   (G)   Maximum Lot Coverage: Principal building and any accessory structures
combined may not exceed forty percent (40%). The balance of the lot shall be
used for, but not limited to, parking, open space and yard recreation space.
   (H)   Maximum Area Coverage: Including all buildings, structures, sidewalks,
parking areas or other hard surface not to exceed eighty percent (80%).
   (I)   Minimum Landscaped Area: Two percent (2%) of the total square footage
of the real property shall be set aside as a decorative landscaped area,
enhancing the street side of the property, and as approved by the Code
Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Warehouse And Storage Facilities: Warehouse and storage facility
functions shall be totally enclosed and conducted within buildings and
structures.
   (B)   Business Servicing Or Processing: All business servicing or
processing, except for off street parking and off street loading shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
   (C)   Outside Storage: All outside storage of goods, materials and products
shall be screened in accordance with section
9-3-5 of this title. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from
surrounding properties.
   (D)   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent durable concrete or asphalt surface, and shall be graded and drained
as to dispose of all surface water.
   (E)   Curb, Gutter, Storm Drainage And Entrance Curbs: Required on all
street frontages and shall meet the approval of the Village Engineer and
Village standards.
   (F)   Parking And Loading Requirements: In accordance with the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   (G)   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   (H)   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces.
   (I)   Screening: Where a commercial or industrial use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in section
 9-3-5 of this title. Any screening required of service yards or other areas
which tend to be unsightly shall be accomplished by walls, fencing, planting or
a combination of these as outlined in section
9-3-5 of this title. Screening must enhance architectural features and
strengthen vistas along important ways of approach or entry.
   (J)   Enclosure Of Use: All industrial or commercial operations shall take
place within completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise specified.
   (K)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed shall comply
with the provisions of performance standards as outlined in article C of this
chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
GR249   9-9C.txt ()CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE C. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-9C-1: Purpose
9-9C-2: Compliance
9-9C-3: Measurement
9-9C-4: Standards
9-9C-5: Investigation
9-9C-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   To provide that business, utilities, light industry, research and
related activities shall be established and maintained with proper appearance
from streets and adjoining properties.
   (B)   To provide that each permitted or special use shall be a good neighbor
to adjoining properties by the control of emission of noise, odor, glare,
light, vibration, smoke, particulate matter, gases, wastes and other hazards.
   (C)   To state the conditions of construction and operation with which uses
will be expected to comply. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9C-2: COMPLIANCE:
   (A)   Performance Standards Procedure:
      1.   Any application for a building permit for a use which shall be
subject to performance standards shall be accompanied by a sworn statement
filed by the owner of subject property or the operator of the proposed use that
said use will be operated in accordance with the performance standards set
forth herein.
In many cases, the relation of a prospective use to all these performance
standards cannot be judged properly at the time of building permit issuance. In
such cases, the recipient of the building permit should note that these
standards, like all other provisions of this title, are continuing obligations
and that all uses shall be expected to operate in compliance with these
standards. The building plans shall bear the signature of a qualified
professional stating that all performance standards will be complied with based
upon the submitted building plans. The Village retains the option to conduct
its own investigation to determine compliance with the performance standards.
      2.   Continued compliance with performance standards is required and
enforcement of continued compliance with these performance standards shall be
enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      3.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall investigate any purported
violation of performance standards and, if there is reasonable grounds for the
same, shall notify the Village Board of the occurrence or existence of a
probable violation thereof. If after investigation, the Code Enforcement
Officer finds that a violation occurred or exists, such violation shall be
terminated as provided in subsection (A)4 of this section.
      4.   All violations, as ascertained through investigation, shall be
terminated within thirty (30) days of the decision of the Code Enforcement
Officer or shall be deemed a separate violation for each day following and
subject to fines as set forth herein, except that certain uses established
before the effective date of these regulations and nonconforming as to
performance standards shall be given a reasonable time in which to conform
therewith as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer. Any violation which
presents an emergency to person or property shall be dealt with immediately in
a manner determined by emergency personnel.
   (B)   Regulation Of Nuisance Elements:
      1.   No land or building in any I-1 or I-2 District which shall be used,
occupied or operated in such a manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious,
noxious or otherwise objectionable, fire, explosive or other hazard; noise or
vibration, smoke, dust, dirt or other form of air pollution; electrical or
other disturbance; glare; or other substance, condition or element in such
amount as to adversely affect the surrounding area or premises at the specified
point or points of the determination.
      2.   The determination of the existence of any dangerous and
objectionable elements shall be made at:
         (a)   The point or points where such elements shall be most apparent
for fire and explosion hazards, for radioactivity and electrical disturbances,
for smoke and other forms of air pollution.
         (b)   At or beyond the property lines of the use creating such
elements for noise, for vibration, for glare, and for odors, wherever the
effect is greatest. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9C-3: MEASUREMENT:
Each measurable standard shall be measured at the appropriate indicated
location in accordance with the provisions of section
9-9C-4 of this article. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9C-4: STANDARDS:
   (A)   Fire And Explosion Hazards: All activities involving, and all storage
of, inflammable and explosive materials shall be provided with adequate safety
devices against the hazard of fire and explosion and adequate firefighting and
fire suppression equipment and devices standard in this industry. Burning of
waste materials in open fires is prohibited. The relevant provisions of State
and local laws and regulations shall also apply.
   (B)   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activities shall be
permitted which cause radioactivity in violation of the Code of Federal
Regulations, "Standards for Protection Against Radiation", the most current
revision or amendment thereto.
No activities shall be permitted which emit dangerous electrical disturbances
adversely affecting the operation of any equipment. All applicable Federal
regulations shall be complied with.
   (C)   Noise: Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on
which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness, or intensity.
At the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated continuously
from a facility shall not exceed the value given in tables 1 and 2 of this
subsection (C) of any octave band frequency. The sound pressure level shall be
measured with a sound level meter and an octave band analyzer that conform to
specifications published by the American Standards Association. Octave band
analyzers shall be calibrated in the preferred frequencies (American Standards
Association S1.6-1967). Preferred frequencies for acoustical measurements shall
be used.
   TABLE 1
Center Frequency  Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level, Decibels
Cycles Per Second
Center Frequency  Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level, Decibels
Cycles Per Second
31.5              79
63                74
125               69
250               64
500               58
1,000             52
2,000             47
4,000             43
8,000             40
 
If the noise is not smooth and continuous, one or more of the corrections in
table 2 of this subsection shall be added to or subtracted from each of the
decibel levels given in table 1 of this subsection.
   TABLE 2
Type Of Operation     Corrections
Or Character Of Noise In Decibels
Type Of Operation                                       Corrections
Or Character Of Noise                                   In Decibels
Daytime operation only                                  Plus 5
Noise source operates less than:                         
 20 percent of any 1 hour period                       Plus 51
 5 percent of any 1 hour period                        Plus 101
 1 percent of any 1 hour period                        Plus 15 percent
Noise of impulsive character (hammering, etc.)          Minus 5
Noise of periodic character (hum, screech, etc.)        Minus 5
Property not located within 500 feet of any R district:  
 I-1 District                                          Plus 5
 I-2 District                                          Plus 10
 
   Note:
      1.    Apply 1 of these corrections only.
   (D)   Odors: No emission shall be permitted of odorous gases or other
odorous matter in such quantities as to be readily detectable without
instruments at the property line of the lot from which they are emitted.
Detailed plans for the prevention of odors crossing property lines may be
required before the issuance of a building permit.
   (E)   Glare: Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights or
high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general illumination,
shall not be visible at any property line. Any operation or activity producing
glare shall be performed within a completely enclosed building and be conducted
so that direct and indirect illumination from the source of light on the lot
shall not cause illumination in excess of one-half (1/2) foot-candle when
measured at the lot line. Exposed sources of light shall be shielded and
intense sources of light shall be controlled so as not to cause a nuisance
across lot lines.
   (F)   Exterior Lighting: Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining properties.
   (G)   Heat: Any operation producing intense heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
   (H)   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is detectable without
instruments at any property line of the lot.
   (I)   Smoke: Measurement shall be made at the point of emission. The
Ringelmann smoke chart published by the United States Bureau of Mines shall be
used for the measurement of smoke. Smoke no darker or more opaque than no. 0 on
said chart may be emitted except that smoke not darker or more opaque than no.
1 on said chart may be emitted for periods not longer than four (4) minutes in
any thirty (30) minutes. These provisions, applicable to visible gray smoke,
shall also apply to visible smoke of a different color but with an equivalent
apparent opacity.
   (J)   Particulate Matter: Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at
any point in concentrations exceeding 0.1 grains per cubic foot of the
conveying gas or air. For measurement of the amount of particles in gases
resulting from combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack
temperature of five hundred degrees Fahrenheit (500°F) and fifty percent (50%)
excess air.
   (K)   Gases: Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic, or corrosive. Detailed plans
for the elimination of fumes or gases may be required before the issuance of a
building permit.
   (L)   Other Forms Of Pollution: No emission of fly ash, dust, fumes, vapors,
gases or any other forms of air, earth or water pollution shall be permitted
which can cause any damage to health, to animal, vegetation, or other forms of
property, or which can cause any excessive soiling. No discharge beyond lot
lines of any toxic or noxious matter in such quantity as to be detrimental to
or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or
damage to property or business, shall be permitted.
   (M)   Hazard: Any operation allowed in articles A and B of this chapter
shall be carried on with reasonable precautions against fire and explosion
hazards.
   (N)   Waste: All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
of in such manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to
the classification assigned to the receiving waters by the Village, the State
of Illinois, and the USEPA. Approval of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency of all plans for waste disposal facilities shall be required before
issuance of any building permit. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-9C-5: INVESTIGATION:
   (A)   Should the Code Enforcement Officer determine that the proposed or
current use violates or may violate the performance standards as set forth
herein, an investigation shall be initiated. The property owner shall provide
information as requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Plans of the existing or proposed construction and development.
      2.   A description of the existing or proposed machinery, processes and
products.
      3.   Specifications for the mechanisms and techniques used or proposed to
be used in restricting the possible emission of any of the dangerous and
objectionable elements as set forth in this section.
      4.   Measurements of the amount or rate of emission of said dangerous and
objectionable elements. Failure to submit data requested by the Code
Enforcement Officer shall constitute an intentional violation.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer may require any person, firm or
corporation to retain an expert consultant or consultants to study and report
as to compliance or noncompliance with the performance standards, and to advise
how a proposed or current use could be brought into compliance. Such
consultants shall be fully qualified to give the required information and shall
be persons or firms mutually agreeable to the Code Enforcement Officer and to
the owner or operator of the use in question. In the event of inability to
select a mutually agreeable consultant, the Planning Commission shall select
the consultant. The cost of the consultant's services shall be borne by the
owner or operator of said use.
   (C)   If violation continues to exist after the conclusion of the time
granted for compliance with the performance standards, any permits previously
issued shall be void and the operator shall be required to cease operation
until the violation is remedied. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIALTY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10A-1: Purpose
9-10A-2: Policy
9-10A-3: Uses Permitted
9-10A-4: Special Uses Permitted
9-10A-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-10A-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
9-10A-7: Prohibited Uses
9-10A-8: Special Provisions
9-10A-1: PURPOSE:
The Zoning District A-1 is hereby established to allow the transitional and
temporary designation of lands for agriculture use until such time as
appropriate development is proposed and Municipal improvements become
available. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the A-1 Agricultural District, it shall be the policy
of the Village to:
   (A)   Foster uses where adequate police and fire protection are available.
   (B)   Require a minimum, continuous area for the A-1 Agricultural District
to be twenty (20) acres in area. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied, and no building, structure, or premises
shall be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used, except as otherwise
provided in this title for other than the agricultural use that exists at time
of annexation. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
Any changes in usage from those in existence at time of annexation shall be
permitted only if specifically authorized by the Board as allowed in chapter 14
of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Code Enforcement Officer of a permit,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than one
successive period per location. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same parcel, and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
Barns, stables, greenhouses, and other similar structures for the exclusive use
of the occupants of the premises, which are incidental to the use of the
property.
Garages, carports, or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of the
residents or occupants of the premises.
Home occupations. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
9-10A-3 through
9-10A-6 of this article, inclusive. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10A-8: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
GR249   9-10B.txt ()CHAPTER 10
SPECIALTY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. OS-1 OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10B-1: Purpose
9-10B-2: Uses Permitted
9-10B-3: Special Uses Permitted
9-10B-4: Temporary Uses Permitted
9-10B-5: Accessory Uses Permitted
9-10B-6: Prohibited Uses
9-10B-7: Special Provisions
9-10B-1: PURPOSE:
To recognize the existence of major open space and recreational areas in the
Village. The Open Space District is intended to apply to all public open space
of notable quality and to major private open spaces. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10B-2: USES PERMITTED:
Detention, retention or natural swale areas and property designated for
recreational usage such as bike trails, walk paths or natural landscaping.
Municipal and public utility facilities.
Public and private cemeteries.
Public or private golf courses and recreational areas, including associated
structures such as clubhouses, maintenance buildings and pro shops.
Public parking lots on land whether public or private.
Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, gardens, recreational and other open areas,
including those leased, and also including associated structures such as
playground equipment, rest facilities, gazebos and other similar public
buildings. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10B-3: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in chapter 14 of this title:
Band shells and amphitheaters.
Concession stands and restaurants, but not drive-through, and only as
associated with a particular permitted use.
Libraries and information centers.
Membership sports and recreation clubs.
Museums and art galleries.
Organized groups or clubs holding scheduled events or meetings on a regular
basis and utilizing the area in a manner consistent with its primary permitted
usage.
Public sports and recreation buildings and facilities. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-10B-4: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to the Village Board and issuance by the Code Enforcement
Officer of a permit, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
Open space area designated for a special event; provided, however, that each
permit shall be valid only for the duration of the designated special event.
Temporary mobile signs on privately owned property only and as provided in
chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10B-5: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses and structures, as allowed under section
9-3-6 of this title, are permitted in the Open Space District, subject to
consistency with the permitted usage of the property. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-10B-6: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in sections
 9-10B-2 through
9-10B-5 of this article, inclusive. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-10B-7: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
   (B)   Lighting: Lighting of the facility and parking areas shall be directed
away from surrounding properties, and shall meet specifications as set by the
Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Parking: In accordance with the applicable regulations set forth in
chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Statement Of Purpose
9-11-2: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
9-11-3: Nonconforming Use Of Conforming Building Or Structure
9-11-4: Nonconforming Use Of Land
9-11-5: Conversion To Special Use
9-11-6: Developments As Legal Nonconforming Use
9-11-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses, and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses may
be continued.
This title establishes separate zoning districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of the uses which are permitted in that
zoning district. It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of those
districts that those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses which
substantially and adversely affect the orderly development and taxable value of
other property in the district not be continued without restriction. (Ord. O-9-
17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-11-2: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Any nonconforming building or structure which existed lawfully at the time of
the adoption of this title and which remains nonconforming, and any such
building or structure which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of
this title or of any subsequent amendment thereto, may be continued in
accordance with the regulations which follow:
   (A)   Repairs And Alterations:
      1.   Buildings Or Structures Intended For A Nonconforming Use: Ordinary
repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure
which existed lawfully at the time of the adoption of this title and which
remains nonconforming, and any such building or structure which shall become
nonconforming upon the adoption of this title or of any subsequent amendment
thereto, may be continued only in accordance with the regulations which follow:
         (a)   A building in a residential district containing nonconforming
uses may be repaired or altered to improve livable and health conditions,
provided no changes are made that would increase the number of dwelling units
or the bulk of the building.
      2.   Building Or Structure Intended For A Permitted Use: Ordinary repairs
and structural changes may be made to a nonconforming building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use permitted
in the district in which it is located; provided said repairs, alterations or
structural changes conform to the regulations of the district in which said
building or structure is located.
   (B)   Additions And Enlargements: A nonconforming building or structure, all
or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted
in the district in which it is located, shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner.
   (C)   Moving Of Building Or Structure: No building or structure which does
not conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located
shall be moved in whole or in part to any other location unless every portion
of such building or structure is moved or removed and the use thereof is made
to conform to all regulations of the district into which it is moved.
   (D)   Restoration Of Damaged, Nonconforming Building Or Structure:
      1.   Nonresidential Buildings And Structures: A building or structure,
which is not used for a single-family residence in the R-1 District, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a nonconforming use,
which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God to the
extent that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the
entire building or structure new, shall not be restored, unless said building
or structure shall conform to all site and structure requirements of the
district in which it is located. In the event that such damage or destruction
is less than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the building or
structure, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration
is started within one year from the date of the partial destruction and is
completed within the time frame as specified under the permit issued.
      2.   Single-Family Residential Uses: A legally existing single- family
residential building or structure in the R-1 Zoning District, the building or
structure, its lot and/or foundation upon which it sits being nonconforming
because of its size, shape and/or setback, which is destroyed or damaged by
fire or other casualty or act of God, may be restored upon its existing
foundation (or foundation footprint). Such a restoration shall not increase the
bulk of the building, but shall restore it to its original size and appearance.
No repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such repairs or
reconstruction are started within one year of the date of damage or destruction
and is completed within the time frame as specified under the permit issued.
   (E)   Discontinuance Of Use Of Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A
building, structure or portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is
not permitted in the district in which it is located, and is vacant, unoccupied
and not used on the effective date of this title or thereafter becomes vacant
and remains unoccupied or is not used for a continuous period of one year shall
not thereafter be occupied or used except by a use which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which it is located. Such change shall be made
after a public hearing in conformance with chapter 14 of this title.
   (F)   Expansion Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: The
nonconforming use of a part of a building or structure may be expanded within
the building or structure in which said use is presently located, but no
changes and alterations will be permitted unless such changes and alterations,
and the use thereof, conform to all the regulations of the district in which
the building or structure is located.
   (G)   Change Of A Nonconforming Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may be changed to any other
permitted use in the district in which it is located; but no change shall
extend or otherwise modify any provision made in this title for elimination of
such nonconforming buildings or structures, and the use thereof. Once a change
has been made to a permitted use, no change can be made back to the previous
nonconforming use. No nonconforming use shall be changed to another
nonconforming use. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-11-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of land, may be continued subject to the
principal use of the land and subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: The nonconforming use of part of a
building or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure
is designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, shall not be expanded into any other portion of such building or
structure.
   (B)   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of a building or structure, all
or substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for
a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is discontinued for a
period of one year, it shall not be renewed, and any subsequent use of the
building or structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district in
which the premises are located. Such change shall be made after public hearing
in conformance with chapter 14 of this title.
   (C)   Change Of Nonconforming Use: No nonconforming use shall be changed to
another nonconforming use when such nonconforming use is located in a building
or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is
designed or intended for a permitted use.
   (D)   Change To A Conforming Use: Whenever all or any part of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is
occupied by a nonconforming use and is subsequently changed to or replaced by a
use conforming to the provisions of this title, such premises shall not
thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-11-4: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of land, may be continued subject to the
principal use of the land and subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Expansion: A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   (B)   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of one year, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and any subsequent use
of land shall conform to the regulations of the district in which the land is
located. Such change shall be made after a public hearing in conformance with
chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-11-5: CONVERSION TO SPECIAL USE:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use may be converted to a permitted
"special use" by the granting of a special use permit, as authorized in chapter
14 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-11-6: DEVELOPMENTS AS LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE:
Developments that have obtained preliminary and final approval at the time this
title is adopted, may be developed as a legal nonconforming use, lot, or
building per the zoning regulations in effect at the time of approval. However,
developments having only preliminary approval prior to the adoption of this
title must actively petition for final approval of the entire project within
one year from the date on which preliminary approval was granted, in order to
proceed with the development in accordance with the zoning regulations, except
for yard requirements which shall comply with the provisions set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-12-1: Off Street Parking General Requirements
9-12-2: Off Street Parking Location
9-12-3: Off Street Parking Separate Or Combined Space
9-12-4: Off Street Parking Design, Development And Maintenance
9-12-5: Off Street Parking Units Of Measure
9-12-6: Off Street Parking Table
9-12-7: Loading Space General Requirements
9-12-8: Loading Space Specific Measurements
9-12-1: OFF STREET PARKING GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The duty to provide and maintain off street parking space shall be the
joint and shared responsibility of the operator and/or owner of the use and/or
land for which off street parking space is required to be provided and
maintained.
   (B)   For land, structures, or uses actually used, occupied, or operated on
the effective date of this title, there shall be provided such off street
parking space as was required for such land, structures, or uses by any
previous ordinance. However, if such land, structure, or uses are enlarged,
expanded, or changed, determination shall be made by the Code Enforcement
Officer regarding the number of off street parking spaces that shall be
required, taking into consideration all aspects being affected by such
enlargement, expansion or change. In no event shall the required number of
parking spaces be less than the sum of previously required spaces plus required
spaces under this title for the additional area of the enlargement, expansion
or change.
   (C)   For all uses established or placed into operation after the effective
date of this title, there shall be constructed, provided, preserved, and
maintained the amount of off street parking space hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   All off street parking space, whether provided in accordance with the
provisions of this title, or in accordance with the provisions of any former
ordinance, shall be maintained as hereinafter required.
   (E)   Parking and loading spaces for all uses may be provided in garages or
parking areas, with or without charge, conforming with the provisions of this
title.
   (F)   Construction vehicles may be parked only on the job site and off the
street.
   (G)   No vehicle may be parked in any residential front yard, except upon a
regularly constructed residential driveway, and provided that the vehicle is
pulled up beyond the sidewalk and no visual or other type of hazard is created.
   (H)   Multipurpose utility trailers and recreational vehicles, including,
but not limited to, travel trailers, pickup campers or coaches, motorized
dwellings, tent trailers, boats, snowmobiles, trailers, dune buggies and other
equipment designated for recreational use, shall not be parked on any
residential street or parking lot, but may be parked in the residential front
yard on a driveway, clearing sidewalks with no visual or other type of hazard
created. Recreational vehicles that, due to size, will not fit in the driveway
or side concrete pad may be parked by resident property owners or their guests
on the street in front of their house only for a period of seventy two (72)
hours for loading, unloading or visiting provided no visual or other type of
hazard is created and after notification to and approval by the Police
Department.
Recreational type vehicles may be parked on owner's property to the side of the
principal building, in relation to the front of the home, provided it meets the
following requirements:
      1.   The vehicle does not encroach into a neighbor's yard;
      2.   The vehicle does not cause a safety hazard;
      3.   The vehicle does not cause a visual obstruction;
      4.   The vehicle sits on a concrete pad approved by the Building
Department;
      5.   The vehicle is kept in operable condition;
      6.   The vehicle is not used for any other purpose than it was designed
for; and
      7.   The vehicle is at the location to the side of the home.
This section shall not apply to any recreational vehicle used as a temporary
residence in front of or at the side of the home, if still on the homeowner's
property, provided the recreational vehicle does not remain on the property for
more than one hundred twenty (120) hours.
   (I)   Semitrucks or semitrailers are allowed only on established truck
routes. Parking of any semitruck or semitrailer is prohibited in all
residential districts.
   (J)   Any application for a building permit or for an occupancy certificate
where no building permit is required, shall include a plot plan drawn to scale
and fully dimensioned showing any off street parking or loading facilities to
be provided in compliance with this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-12-2: OFF STREET PARKING LOCATION:
Off street parking space shall be located on the same lot as the use for which
provided, except as set forth herein:
   (A)   Municipally Owned Property: Municipally owned property.
   (B)   Special Location Plan: Pursuant to the procedure hereinafter set
forth, either part or all of the required off street parking space may be
located off the lot of the use for which the space is provided. Also, two (2)
or more uses may share the same off street parking space and each of such uses
may be considered as having provided such shared space individually. The
following limitations shall apply to the "special location plan".
      1.   Separate From Use: Off street parking shall be located as
hereinafter specified, where a distance is specified, such distance shall be
the walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to
the nearest point of the building that such facility is required to serve.
         (a)   In all residential districts, parking facilities shall be
located on the same lot or lots with the building they are required to serve,
except that vehicles with a weight of seven thousand (7,000) pounds or more or
exceeding ninety inches (90") in height are prohibited.
         (b)   In the C-2 Commercial District and industrial districts, parking
facilities shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of the building
they are required to serve.
      2.   Application: All applications for approval of a special plan
hereunder shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Officer by the owners of the
entire land area and all structures included thereon. The application shall
contain such information and representations required by this title or deemed
necessary and shall include plans showing the following details:
         (a)   The location of the uses or structures for which off street
parking space is required.
         (b)   The location at which the off street parking space is to be
located.
      3.   Procedure:
         (a)   All applicants shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission and Code Enforcement Officer. Any approval may establish necessary
conditions and limitations.
         (b)   All special plans recorded hereunder shall be binding upon the
applicants for such special location plan, their successors and assigns, shall
limit and control the issuance and validity of all zoning permits and zoning
certificates and shall restrict and limit the use and operation of all land and
structures included within such special location plans to all conditions and
limitations specified in such plans and approvals thereof.
         (c)   All special plans hereunder may be amended according to the same
procedures and subject to the limitations and requirements by which such plans
were approved. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-12-3: OFF STREET PARKING SEPARATE OR COMBINED SPACE:
Separate off street parking space shall be provided for each use or the parking
space required of two (2) or more uses located on the same lot may be combined
and used jointly; provided, however:
   (A)   Where off street parking is combined and used jointly by two (2) or
more uses having different standards for determining the amount of off street
parking required, the parking space shall be adequate in area to provide the
sum total of off street parking requirements of all such uses.
   (B)   Where off street parking space is combined and used jointly by two (2)
or more uses having the same standard for determining the amount of off street
parking space required, all such uses, for the purpose of this section shall be
considered a single unit, and the gross floor area of all such uses in all
structures on the same lot and the number of employees of all such uses in all
structures on the same lot as fixed by the applicable standard shall be taken
as a single total for the purpose of determining the amount of off street
parking space required. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-12-4: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including commercial parking lots and automobile or trailer sales lots, shall
be designed, developed, and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Design Plan Approval: The plan for the design of parking lots or areas
shall be subject to approval of the Village Engineer and Code Enforcement
Officer, in accordance with current standards on file in the Code Enforcement
Office and requirements noted herein.
   (B)   Restricted Use: No off street parking area shall be used for sale,
repair, dismantling, or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials, or
supplies, except when parking is a permitted principal or conditional use.
   (C)   Design Specifications:
      1.   All districts:
         (a)   Drainage/Approved Material: All off street parking areas shall
be graded for proper drainage and provided with bituminous asphalt, concrete or
other approved dustless, durable material capable of carrying a wheel load of
four thousand (4,000) pounds maintained at all times in such a manner as to
prevent the release of dust and to be free of dust, trash, and debris.
         (b)   Curb Cuts: Except for approved circle drives in residential
districts, no more than one curb cut shall be allowed for any lot with less
than two hundred foot (200') frontage on a public street, and no more than two
(2) curb cuts shall be allowed for any lot with two hundred feet (200') or over
frontage.
         (c)   Access Angle: Entrance/exit access shall intersect the public
street at an angle of seventy degrees (70°) to ninety degrees (90°).
         (d)   Vehicular Access: All off street parking areas shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic, as determined
by the Village Engineer and Code Enforcement Officer.
         (e)   Parking Space Dimensions: Except for parallel parking spaces,
each required off street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in
width and at least twenty feet (20') in length, exclusive of access drives or
aisles, ramps or columns. Such space shall have a vertical clearance of at
least seven feet (7') and shall be measured at right angles to the axis of the
vehicle. For parallel parking, the length of the parking space shall be
increased to twenty four feet (24').
         (f)   ADA Requirements: Parking for the handicapped shall be provided
at a size, number, and location as specified by State and Federal regulations.
         (g)   Location: No pavement or curbing shall be located closer than
five feet (5') from any property line unless it can be specifically
demonstrated that the intent is to extend the parking to adjacent properties. A
plan must be submitted and approved during the review process which shows how
the extension of parking will occur.
         (h)   Curbing: All parking areas with more than twelve (12) spaces
within any district shall be provided with curbing along perimeter parking so
located that no part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond the parking area.
         (i)   Ingress/Egress: A clear path of ingress and egress must be
individually provided for each space; parking spaces shall not be adjoined in
any manner whereby use of one space would effectively eliminate ingress or
egress to any other parking space. No turnaround, street or driveway that
serves as access to any parking space shall be considered a separate parking
space or area if its use effectively blocks ingress or egress of any other
parking space.
         (j)   Clear Path Of Vision: At points of ingress and egress into roads
for off street parking, no structure, parked vehicle, sign or plant material
shall obstruct a clear path of motor vehicle driver's vision of approaching
vehicles within a triangular square determined by a diagonal line connecting
two (2) points measured seventy five feet (75') equidistant from the point of
intersection with the centerline of the road and the points of ingress and
egress.
         (k)   Lighting: Driveways, accessways and parking areas shall be
illuminated in sufficient manner to create a safe environment for vehicles and
pedestrians. All lighting shall be glare free and directed away from adjoining
properties. Lighting heads shall be permanently fixed downdraft lighting
utilizing shadow boxes to direct light downward.
         (l)   Landscaping: All open vehicle parking areas containing more than
twelve (12) contiguous and adjacent parking spaces shall be effectively
screened in accordance with the guidelines noted in section
9-3-5 of this title. Five percent (5%) of the entire parking area shall be
landscaped with island greenery; such plan shall be approved with the site
plan.
      2.   Single-Family R-1 and Two-Family R-2 Residential Districts:
         (a)   Driveways for single-family homes shall not be less than nine
feet (9') in width. Where a driveway leads to a garage, the width shall not be
less than the span of the garage door, or if more than one, the total span of
all doors. The width of the driveway for an attached garage may not extend
beyond three feet (3') from the side of the garage nearest to the structure's
main entrance. The driveway extension, located on the side of the garage
farthest from structure's main entrance, may be extended up to the side yard
setback provided that no extension is constructed on an easement.
         (b)   No lot in an R-1 Residential District shall have more than one
driveway approach to a garage or parking area, except for approved circle
drives.
         (c)   All aprons must be constructed with concrete.
         (d)   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the area in front of a
single-family home's building setback line may be covered by a hard surface,
unless a circle drive is utilized.
         (e)   Circle drives may be permitted when it is determined by the
Director of Building and Zoning that its presence will not be injurious to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. When making such a decision the
Director of Building and Zoning may consider, but in no way shall be limited
to: traffic conditions, aesthetics and lot coverage. No approval for a circle
drive will be granted by the Director of Building and Zoning without the
submission of a site plan, drawn to scale, delineating the circle drive
configuration to be constructed on the lot.
         (f)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, no
driveway or portion thereof shall be permitted if its construction would cause
the total lot coverage to exceed sixty percent (60%).
      3.   Commercial, industrial, and Multiple-Family Residential R-
3 Districts:
         (a)   Width: Shall be provided with entrances and exits not less than
twelve feet (12') nor more than seventeen and one-half feet (171/2') in width
for each direction of traffic and so located as to minimize traffic congestion.
         (b)   Distance Between Curb Cuts And Intersections: Minimum distance
between curb cuts and public street intersections shall be no less than one
hundred forty five feet (145') measured from the centerline of the street to
the centerline of the entrance/exit access.
         (c)   Vehicular Access: Each off street parking space shall open
directly upon an aisle or driveway at least twelve feet (12') wide for each
direction of traffic or such additional width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space.
         (d)   Garages: Where garages are provided, driveway width to the
garage shall be no less than the span of the garage door(s).
         (e)   Screening: Off street parking areas for four (4) or more
vehicles that adjoin or are across the street from property zoned for any
residential use shall have a dense evergreen planting and/or such other
screening in accordance with guidelines of section
9-3-5 of this title.
         (f)   Landscaping: A minimum of fifteen feet (15') of landscaping in
the front yard shall be provided in all commercial and industrial districts.
Reduction in the depth of landscaping may be permitted as a special use if
adequate provisions for landscaping can be demonstrated. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-12-5: OFF STREET PARKING UNITS OF MEASURE:
For purposes of this section, the following units of measurement shall apply:
   (A)   Floor Area: "Floor area" shall mean the gross floor area taken from
the outside wall of the building.
   (B)   Dwelling Unit: A "dwelling unit" shall mean one room, or a suite of
two (2) or more rooms, designed for or used by one family for living and
sleeping purposes and having only one kitchen or kitchenette.
   (C)   Seat Or Bench: A seat shall be the space intended for an individual;
in places where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews, or other seating
facilities, each twenty inches (20") of such seating facilities shall be
counted as one seat.
   (D)   Employees: "Employees" shall mean the maximum number of permanent
staff members working on the premises at any one time.
   (E)   Fractions: When units of measurement result in the requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction shall require one parking space.
   (F)   Multiple Uses: For structures which function under more than one use,
parking space shall be provided to accommodate the maximum potential need for
parking as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-12-6: OFF STREET PARKING TABLE:
 
 
 
Parking Class Uses (Permitted Or Special) Required Spaces
Parking Class Uses (Permitted Or Special)      Required Spaces
Class 1       Dwelling, single-family          2 per dwelling unit
              Dwelling, two-family              
Class 2       Dwelling, multiple-family        2.5 per dwelling unit
              Convalescent home, extended care
              facilities nursing home, home
              for the aged                     1 per each 2 beds plus 1 per
Class 3       Group homes                      each 2 employees
              Institutional uses
              Parsonage, rectory or parish
              house
Class 4       Medical, dental or optical       2 per each office or exam plus 1
              clinics                          per employee
              Library, museum or other public
Class 5       or quasi-public use              3 per 1,000 square feet of gross
              Philanthropic and charitable     floor area
              institutions
              Personal service establishments
              Post Office                      4 per 1,000 square feet of gross
Class 6       Professional office              floor area
              establishments
              Recreational or community center
              Business service establishments  6 per 1,000 square feet of floor
Class 7       Retail businesses which supply   area
              commodities on the premises
              Elementary schools               1 per each employee plus 1 per
Class 8       Nursery schools                  each 3 classrooms

                                               1 space per each employee plus 1
Class 9       High schools                     space per each 4 students based
                                               on the maximum number according
                                               to design capacity
              Business schools                 1 space per each 2 employees
Class 10      Commercial or trade schools      plus 1 space per each 2 students
              Music or dance schools
              Cocktail lounges                 10 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Class 11      Restaurants                      of gross floor area
              Taverns
              Auction halls
              Auditoriums (also as accessory   1 space per 2.5 seats or 45
              to churches, school and other    linear inches of seating or by
Class 12      institutional establishments)    potential seating as determined
              Churches, temples, synagogues    by the Enforcement Officer
              Convention halls or exhibition
              halls
              Golf driving ranges              1 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                               gross floor area plus 1 space
Class 13      Greenhouses or nurseries, retail per 2,000 square feet of gross
                                               land area

              Golf courses                     75 spaces per 9 holes (regular
Class 14      Par 3 golf courses               golf) or 40 spaces per 9 holes
              Pitch and putt golf course       (par 3 course)

              Athletic fields
Class 15      Grounds of recreational clubs,   1 space per 5,000 square feet of
              noncommercial                    gross land area
              Public parks and playgrounds
              Bowling alleys                   1 space per 2 persons based on
              Dance halls                      the maximum number of persons
              Skating rinks                    that can be accommodated at the
Class 16      Swimming pools                   same time in accordance with
                                               such design capacity and 1 space
              Tennis courts and clubs          per each 2 employees

Class 17      Indoor theaters                  1 space per each 4 seats
                                               Reservoir space sufficient to
Class 18      Drive-in banking facility        accommodate a number of
                                               automobiles equal to 5 times the
                                               number of teller windows
                                               1 space per employee plus
Class 19      Automobile laundry (mechanical)  parking spaces equal to 5 times
                                               the maximum capacity of the auto
                                               washing unit
              Garage for the storage,
              servicing and repair of motor
              vehicles including body repair,
              painting and engine rebuilding
              Mobile home display, sales,
              service                          5 per 1,000 square feet of gross
Class 20      Model garage, display and sales  floor area plus 1 space per
              Motor vehicles sales and service 2,000 square feet of land area
              Motorcycle, bicycle, or other
              outdoor recreational vehicle
              sales, rental, service
              Trailer, boat, and camper or
              camper trailer sales, rental and
              service
                                               1 space per each pump island
Class 21      Auto service station             plus 2 spaces per each stall
                                               plus 1 space per employee
              Industrial type uses, wholesale
Class 22      or warehouse uses, as defined in 1 space per each employee
              chapters 8 and 9 of this title
              Amusement parks and similar
              establishments
              Billiard and pool halls          3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Class 23      Indoor amusements, including     of gross floor area plus 3
              indoor archery, rifle range and  spaces per 1,000 square feet of
              shooting gallery                 gross land area
              Kiddie park
              Miniature golf
                                               Spaces as required by the
Class 24      Special uses not specified above Village Board after review by
                                               the Code Enforcement Officer
 
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-12-7: LOADING SPACE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Location: All required loading areas shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served. All motor vehicle loading areas which abut a
residential district from a commercial or industrial district shall be
completely screened therefrom by building walls or by a uniform solid fence,
wall, or door, or densely planted, mature shrubbery or any combination thereof,
not less than five feet (5') in height. No permitted or required loading area
shall be located within thirty feet (30') of the nearest point of intersection
of any two (2) streets. No loading area shall be located in a required front or
side yard, and any loading area located in a required rear yard may be open to
the sky. No pavement or curbing shall be located closer than two feet (2') from
any property line unless it can be specifically demonstrated that the intent is
to extend the loading to adjoining properties. A plan must be submitted and
approved during the review process which shows how the extension of loading
will occur.
   (B)   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required off street loading area
shall be at least twelve feet (12') in width by at least forty feet (40') in
length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fifteen feet (15').
   (C)   Access: Each required off street loading area shall be designated with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement, and shall be subject to approval by
the Code Enforcement Officer. Loading areas shall be designed in such manner to
create flow through traffic patterns on site; no backing in from public streets
shall be allowed.
   (D)   Surfacing: All open, off street loading areas shall be surfaced with a
bituminous asphalt or concrete material capable of bearing a live load of two
hundred (200) pounds per square foot.
   (E)   Repair And Service:
      1.   Residential Districts: No motor vehicle repair work or service of
any kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in
any residential district.
      2.   Commercial Districts: No motor vehicle repair of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in commercial
districts, except emergency repair service necessary to start vehicles.
      3.   Industrial Districts: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in an
industrial district if such loading facilities are within five hundred feet
(500') of a residence district. Washing of accessory vehicles and emergency
service required to start vehicles shall be permitted.
   (F)   Utilization: Space allocated for off street loading use shall not,
while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   (G)   Central Loading: Central loading facilities may be substituted for
loading areas on the individual zoning lots provided the following conditions
are fulfilled:
      1.   Each zoning lot serviced shall have direct access to the central
loading area without cross streets or alley at grade.
      2.   Total off street loading berths provided shall meet the minimum
requirements herein specified based on the sum of the several types of uses
served. (Area of types of uses may be totaled before computing number of
loading berths.)
      3.   No zoning lot served shall be more than five hundred feet (500')
removed from the central loading area.
      4.   The tunnel or ramp connecting the central loading area with the
zoning lot served shall not be less than seven feet (7') in width and have a
clearance of not less than seven feet (7').
   (H)   Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off street loading facilities are
required herein, but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent
alley, service drive, or open space on the same lot. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-12-8: LOADING SPACE SPECIFIC MEASUREMENTS:
   (A)   Residence Districts: Off street loading facilities accessory to uses
allowed in the residence districts shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   Loading Berths: For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth
shall be provided for buildings containing ten thousand (10,000) to one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional loading
berth for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross
floor area or fraction thereof.
         (a)   Educational and cultural institutions.
         (b)   Philanthropic and cultural institutions.
         (c)   Religious institutions.
      2.   Planned Development, Residential: Loading berths shall be provided
on the basis of the required berths of each individual use.
      3.   Recreational And Social Facilities: For buildings containing ten
thousand (10,000) to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor
area, one loading berth shall be provided, and for each additional one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area up to five hundred thousand
(500,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof in excess of five
hundred thousand (500,000) square feet.
      4.   Nonresidential Uses: For all other nonresidential uses, loading
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   For buildings containing ten thousand (10,000) to one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area, there shall be provided on
the same zoning lot, adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor
vehicle, off any adjacent alley, service drive, or open space.
         (b)   For buildings containing ten thousand (10,000) to one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area, two (2) off street loading
berths shall be provided.
         (c)   For buildings containing over one hundred thousand (100,000)
square feet of gross floor area, there shall be provided one loading berth for
each one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction
thereof.
   (B)   Commercial Districts: Off street loading spaces accessory to uses
permitted in the commercial districts shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   Any use listed in a residential district that also is permitted in
any of the commercial districts shall provide loading spaces as established for
that use in the preceding section for residential districts.
      2.   Establishments containing less than seven thousand (7,000) square
feet of gross floor area shall be provided with adequate facilities, accessible
by motor vehicle, off any adjacent alley, service drive, or open space on the
same zoning lot.
      3.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing seven thousand (7,000) to forty thousand (40,000)
square feet of gross floor area. For buildings containing forty thousand
(40,000) to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area, two
(2) loading berths shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for
each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area
or fraction thereof. Each such loading berth for buildings in excess of one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area shall not be less
than twelve feet (12') in width by fifty five feet (55') in length:
Cartage and express facilities.
Mail order houses.
Printing and publishing.
Restricted production and repair.
Warehousing, storage, and wholesale establishments.
      4.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing up to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
gross floor area for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet
of gross floor area up to five hundred thousand (500,000) square feet, one
additional loading berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth
for each fifty thousand (50,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction in
excess of five hundred thousand feet (500,000').
Banks and financial institutions.
Medical and dental clinics.
Offices, business, professional and governmental.
Recreation buildings and community centers, noncommercial.
      5.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing up to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
gross floor area, plus one additional loading berth for each additional one
hundred fifty thousand feet (150,000') of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
Each such loading building in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of
gross floor area shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width by fifty
five feet (55') in length.
Clubs or lodges (not for profit), containing retail shops, auditoriums,
exhibition halls, or business or professional offices (other than accessory).
Convention halls.
Exhibition halls.
      6.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing up to one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) square feet
of gross floor area, plus one additional loading berth for each additional two
hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof:
Amusement establishments: bowling alleys, swimming pools, and skating rinks.
For buildings containing ten thousand (10,000) square feet of gross floor area,
one loading berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each
additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area or
fraction thereof.
Clubs and lodges (not for profit), containing no retail shops, convention
halls, auditoriums, exhibition halls or business or professional offices (other
than accessory).
Meeting halls.
Parking lots and garages: There shall not be requirements for off street
loading.
Schools: music, dance, business, and trade.
Theaters, indoor.
Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
For all other uses, loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area Of Establishments Required Number
In Thousands Of Square Feet        And Size Of Berths
   7 to 60                      1 - (12 foot x 30 foot)
   61 to 100                    2 - (12 foot x 30 foot each)
 
For each additional two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet in gross floor
area or fraction thereof over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
gross floor area, one additional loading berth shall be provided, such
additional berth to be at least twelve feet (12') in width by fifty five feet
(55') in length.
   (C)   Industrial District: Off street loading facilities accessory to uses
allowed in the industrial district shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair, or
storage of materials, goods, or products: For buildings containing up to forty
thousand (40,000) square feet of gross floor area, one loading berth shall be
provided. For buildings containing forty thousand (40,000) to one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area, two (2) loading berths
shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each additional one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area or fraction thereof. Each
such loading berth for buildings in excess of ten thousand (10,000) square feet
of gross floor area shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in width by fifty
five feet (55') in length.
      2.   For uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided for
buildings up to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area.
For each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor
area up to five hundred thousand (500,000) square feet, one additional loading
berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each additional
five hundred thousand (500,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction
thereof in excess of five hundred thousand (500,000) square feet.
Medical and dental clinics.
Recreational buildings or community centers.
      3.   Motor freight terminals: For buildings containing five thousand
(5,000) to forty thousand (40,000) square feet of gross floor area, one loading
berth shall be provided. For buildings containing forty thousand (40,000) to
one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area, two (2) loading
berths shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each additional
one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction
thereof. Each such loading berth for buildings in excess of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of gross floor area shall be not less than twelve feet
(12') by fifty five feet (55') in length.
      4.   Planned developments, industrial: Loading berths shall be provided
on the basis of the required berths for each individual use.
      5.   For all other uses, loading facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area Of Establishments Required Number
In Thousands Of Square Feet        And Size Of Berths
   7 to 40                      1 - (12 foot x 30 foot)
   41 to 100                    2 - (12 foot x 30 foot each)
 
For each additional two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet in gross floor
area or fraction thereof over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
gross floor area, one additional loading berth shall be provided, such
additional berth to be at least twelve feet (12') by fifty five feet (55') in
length. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 13
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Title
9-13-2: Purpose
9-13-3: Definitions
9-13-4: Permit Required
9-13-5: Permitting Process; Appeals
9-13-6: Permit Denial
9-13-7: Permit Expiration
9-13-8: Nonconforming Signs
9-13-9: General Construction And Maintenance Standards
9-13-10: Appearance Standards
9-13-11: Prohibited Signs
9-13-12: Enforcement
9-13-13: Residential Districts
9-13-14: Reserved
9-13-15: Reserved
9-13-16: Agricultural Districts
9-13-17: Wayfinder Signs
9-13-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the GRANT PARK SIGN ORDINANCE. (Ord.
O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the use of signs in the Village which
are safe, aesthetically pleasing, compatible with their surroundings and
legible in the circumstances in which they are seen. This chapter recognizes
the need for a well maintained and attractive physical appearance of the
community, the need to preserve the noncommercial character of residential
neighborhoods, and the need for adequate business identification for the
conduct of competitive commerce. Further, this chapter is adopted for the
purpose of reducing sign or advertising distractions that may increase traffic
accidents by distracting driver attention from the roadway. No provision of
this chapter is intended to prohibit or permit signs on the basis of content.
No provision of this chapter is intended to favor or permit commercial speech
at the expense of noncommercial speech. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following types of signs, parts of signs
or descriptions are defined as follows:
SIGN: Any object, device, display, or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct, or
attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event, idea, position or location by any means, including
words, letters, figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, or
projected images.
Animated Or Moving: Any sign that changes physical position or light intensity
by any movement or rotation or that gives the visual impression of such
movement or rotation.
Awning, Canopy, Or Marquee: A sign that is mounted, painted, or attached to an
awning, canopy, or marquee that is otherwise permitted by ordinance.
Billboard: A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or
entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than the premises
on which the sign is located.
Business: A sign that directs attention to a business or profession conducted,
or to a commodity or service sold, offered, or manufactured, or to an
entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is located.
Construction: A temporary sign erected on the premises on which construction is
taking place, during the period of such construction, indicating the names of
the architects, engineers, landscape architects, contractors or similar
artisans, and the owners, financial supporters, sponsors, and similar
individuals or firms having a role or interest with respect to the structure or
project.
Directional: Signs limited to directional messages, principally for pedestrian
or vehicular traffic, such as "one- way", "entrance", and "exit".
Electronic Message Board: Any sign that uses changing lights to form a sign
message or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of change is
electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic process.
Face: The area or display surface used for the message.
Flashing: Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign that exhibits changing
natural or artificial light or color effects by any means whatsoever.
Freestanding: Any nonmovable sign not affixed to a building, i.e., pole sign,
ground sign, and construction signs.
Ground: Any sign, other than a pole sign, in which the entire bottom is in
contact with or is close to the ground and is independent of any other
structure.
Identification: A sign giving the nature, logo, trademark, or other identifying
symbol; address; or any combination of the name, symbol, and address of a
building, business, development, or establishment on the premises where it is
located.
Illuminated: A sign lighted by or exposed to internal or external artificial
lighting.
Nameplate: A sign, located on the premises, giving the name or address, or
both, of the owner or occupant of a building or premises.
Permanent: A sign that will be permanently affixed to the ground or permanently
affixed to another structure. For purposes of this chapter, a "permanent sign"
shall mean any sign that has a foundation, will be attached to a structure with
a foundation, and will be standing for more than one hundred twenty (120) days.
Pole: A sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or other support so that
the bottom edge of the sign face is six feet (6') or more above grade.
Portable: A sign that is not permanent, affixed to a building, structure, or
the ground, including, but not limited to, signs to be transported on wheels.
Projecting: A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a building for
support and that projects more than twelve inches (12") from such building.
This type of sign is commonly known as a shingle sign.
Roof: A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or that is wholly
dependent upon a building for support and that projects: above the top walk or
edge of a building with a flat roof; above the eave line of a building with a
gambrel, gable, or hip roof; or, above the deck line of a building with a
mansard roof.
Wall: A sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building or structure in
such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for, or forms the
background surface of, the sign and that does not project more than twelve
inches (12") from such building or structure.
SIGN AREA: The entire face of a sign, including the advertising surface and any
framing, trim, or molding, but not including the supporting structure.
SIGN PROJECTION: The distance from the exterior wall surface to the sign's
furthest physical point. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to install, alter, enlarge, extend or relocate
(hereinafter "construct") a permanent sign, or a sign that will have electrical
service, must first obtain a permit by filing with the Director of Building and
Zoning ("Director") an application in writing, on a form to be furnished by the
Director, which shall consist of the following information:
   (A)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, which shall be
confirmed through the applicant's driver's license or state identification
card, articles of incorporation, or other legally recognized form of
identification;
   (B)   Proof of ownership or possessory interest in the land on which the
sign is to be erected;
   (C)   The address and legal description of the property on which the sign is
to be erected;
   (D)   Names and addresses of any contractors employed by the applicant to
erect the sign;
   (E)   Sealed building plans signed by a licensed architect setting forth the
specifications for the construction of the sign;
   (F)   Sealed site plans signed by a licensed land surveyor showing the
location of the sign in relation to other signs and structures sufficient to
ensure compliance with the standards of this chapter; and
   (G)   Proof of possession of any license or permit which, under Federal,
State or local law, the applicant is required to have in order to erect a sign
under this chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-5: PERMITTING PROCESS; APPEALS:
The Director shall complete an application review and notify an applicant of
his/her decision to grant or deny a permit within thirty (30) days of receipt
of the application. An applicant may obtain his/her permit from the Village
Hall once advised that a decision to grant the permit has been issued. A record
of all permits issued and denied pursuant to this chapter shall be maintained
by the Director. Any permit not specifically approved or denied within thirty
(30) days of the application's submission shall be deemed denied as failing to
comply with the provisions of this chapter unless both parties agree to an
extension in writing. All extensions shall be signed by the Director and the
applicant and shall specify the date upon which the extension is to terminate.
If the Director has not granted or denied an application upon the expiration of
the time period so specified, the applicant may either consider such failure as
a denial of the permit or agree to a further extension of time. The Director
shall not consider the sign's content as a part of his/her decision to grant or
deny a permit and shall limit his/her decision to compliance with this Code.
The Director shall use reasonable efforts to notify the applicant of his/her
decision to grant or deny a permit in writing. If an application is incomplete,
the Director shall allow the applicant an opportunity to provide the
information necessary for his/her review. In the case of a denial, the Director
shall advise the applicant why the sign cannot be constructed as proposed. The
notification shall be mailed to the applicant via U.S. mail at the address
contained on the application. The notification shall be postmarked no later
than three (3) business days subsequent to the expiration of the review period.
An applicant denied a permit under this chapter may appeal the Director's
decision to the President and Board of Trustees for the Village of Grant Park.
Said appeal shall be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and stamped no
later than thirty (30) days subsequent to the date indicated on the Director's
denial letter or the final date upon which the Director's review has expired if
no letter is received. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Village Clerk shall
immediately send notice to the President and Board of Trustees of the appeal.
Within fourteen (14) days subsequent to the receipt of an appeal, the Village
Clerk shall send notice to the applicant setting forth the date, time and
location of the appeal hearing. The appeal shall be held within thirty five
(35) days of receipt of the applicant's appeal. The President and Board of
Trustees' review of the appeal shall be limited to whether the proposed sign
conforms to this Code. The President and Board of Trustees may only reverse the
decision of the Director upon a majority vote of the elected officials then
holding office. Upon a reversal, the Director shall be obligated to issue a
permit to the applicant within seven (7) days. An applicant may appeal the
decision to deny a permit made by the President and Board of Trustees through
the Illinois Administrative Review Law. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-6: PERMIT DENIAL:
The Director may only deny a permit if the sign, as proposed, fails to comply
with the standards set forth in this chapter. The Director's denial and the
reasons for said disapproval shall be noted on the application. (Ord. O-9-17-3,
9-18-2017)
9-13-7: PERMIT EXPIRATION:
If work authorized under a sign permit has not commenced within ninety (90)
days of the date of issuance of that permit, said permit shall become void.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-8: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Any permanent sign or permanent sign structure lawfully existing or under
construction at the time of the adoption of this title, or of a later
amendment, but whose location or use does not conform with the regulations set
forth herein, shall be known as nonconforming. Nonconforming signs shall be
registered with the Director. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-9: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
All signs shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the following
limitations and requirements:
   (A)   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with the minimum
requirements of the International Building Code in effect at the time of the
permit application.
   (B)   All signs which are illuminated or contain any electrical parts shall
be constructed in accordance with the National Electrical Code in effect at the
time of the permit application.
   (C)   All signs shall be maintained in accordance with the minimum
requirements of the International Property Maintenance Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-
18-2017)
9-13-10: APPEARANCE STANDARDS:
All signs shall conform to the following appearance standards:
   (A)   All paint used must be weatherproof or covered by weatherproof
material.
   (B)   All lettering must be composed through the use of computer generation
or stencil.
   (C)   No signs shall be permitted that show wood in its natural exposed
condition.
   (D)   Spray paint may not be used on any signs.
   (E)   Every sign that requires a permit before its construction shall
contain an identification tag on the sign providing the name and telephone
number of the company constructing and maintaining the same.
   (F)   External lighting of signs shall be directed away from the public
right-of-way and from adjoining properties. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-11: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following signs and displays
shall be strictly prohibited throughout the Village:
   (A)   Signs erected on or that project over public property or a public
right-of-way unless erected by or with the written permission of the Village.
   (B)   Signs that project beyond the property line on which the sign is
erected.
   (C)   Permanent signs on public utility easements.
   (D)   Signs placed within a natural waterway.
   (E)   Signs attached to trees, public utility poles, standpipes, gutter
drains or fire escapes, other than warning signs issued by government officials
or public utilities.
   (F)   Signs that block or impede the ingress or egress of any door, window,
or fire escape. No sign shall be erected so as to impair access to the roof of
a building.
   (G)   Signs (even temporary) that create a visual or physical hazard for
vehicles, pedestrians or children.
   (H)   Billboards, except for signs affixed to bus shelters erected in the
public right-of-way with the written permission of the Village.
   (I)   Signs which do not meet the standards of, or which otherwise violate,
the Illinois Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971, as amended.
   (J)   Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-13-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: If the Director finds that any sign is
unsafe or insecure, is a menace to the public, or has been constructed,
erected, or stands in violation of the provisions of this chapter, he shall
give written notice to the owner of the property upon which the sign is
located. If the owner fails to remove or alter the sign so as to comply with
the standards set forth herein within ten (10) days after such notice, the
Director may issue a citation and/or institute court proceedings for the
removal/repair thereof. Provided, however, the Director may cause any sign
which is an immediate peril to person or property to be removed summarily and
without notice.
   (B)   Maintenance And Repair: Every sign, including, but not limited to,
those signs for which no permits or permit fees are required, shall be
maintained in a safe, presentable and good condition at all times. If the owner
fails to abate any maintenance issues within ten (10) days after notice by the
Director, he may issue a citation and/or institute court proceedings for the
removal/repair thereof.
   (C)   Alterations: No display sign or outdoor device shall be altered,
rebuilt, enlarged, extended or relocated, except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. The repainting, changing of parts and preventative
maintenance of signs shall not be deemed to be alterations if performed by the
sign permit holder.
   (D)   Compliance: Nothing in this chapter shall limit the methods by which
the Director ensures compliance with the standards set forth herein. The
Director is authorized to take any measure not prohibited by law to obtain
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
 
9-13-13: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The following signs shall be permitted in residential districts except that no
sign shall be located closer than one-half (1/2) of the required setback
distance of the lot:
   (A)   Nameplates, identification, and construction signs subject to the
following:
      1.   Lots that contain single-family dwellings shall be permitted to have
two (2) nameplates not to exceed two (2) square feet in area.
      2.   Lots with multi-family dwellings shall be permitted to have one
identification sign not to exceed twelve (12) square feet in area.
      3.   In connection with the construction or remodeling (construction
sign) of a building or subdivision there shall be permitted one sign not to
exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area; on corner lots two (2) signs will
be permitted provided they face different streets. All construction signs shall
be removed within fourteen (14) days after occupancy permits are granted for
the building or subdivision, whichever may be applicable. Provided, however,
for subdivisions this section shall only be interpreted as allowing one
construction sign (or 2 signs in the case of a corner lot) per subdivision.
   (B)   Signs within residential districts but not on a lot devoted primarily
to a residential use shall conform to the following specifications:
      1.   No more than one sign shall be permitted per lot, except that on a
corner lot two (2) signs will be permitted provided they face different
streets.
      2.   No sign shall exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area.
      3.   No sign shall project higher than ten feet (10') above the ground
level.
   (C)   All other signs shall conform to the following specifications:
      1.   No sign shall project higher than five feet (5') in height above the
ground level unless in a window.
      2.   The maximum surface area of all signs on a lot (be it a single sign
or multiple) shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
      3.   All signs shall be freestanding but not permanently affixed to the
ground. Provided, however, signs placed in a window need not be freestanding.
      4.   No sign permitted under this subsection shall be illuminated. (Ord.
O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-14: RESERVED:
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-15: RESERVED:
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-16: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS:
Signs allowed in residential districts shall be allowed in agricultural
districts subject to the standards set forth therein. All signs that are
permitted as identified in subsection
9-13-14(A) of this chapter shall be allowed in agricultural districts as a
special use. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-13-17: WAYFINDER SIGNS:
The Village of Grant Park is authorized to construct, operate and maintain
wayfinder signs on public property or in a public right- of-way for the
purposes of directing the public's attention to businesses, governmental
buildings, historical sites, hospitals, parks, public property, schools,
streets, or other similar locations within the corporate limits of the Village
of Grant Park and Village owned property outside of Village limits.
   (A)   The Village of Grant Park shall have the sole authority to determine
the location, number, size and style of wayfinder signs.
   (B)   The Village of Grant Park shall have the sole authority to determine
the location, number, size and style of the individual placards to be affixed
to wayfinder signs.
   (C)   Private entities may apply to the Office of the Village Clerk to have
their business names placed on an individual placard at their own cost for the
reproduction and installation of the placard. The placard will be ordered
through the Village of Grant Park to ensure its conformity to other placards
and wayfinder signs throughout the Village.
   (D)   Only those entities licensed to conduct business within the Village of
Grant Park, and currently in operation, may be granted the right to have a
placard affixed to a wayfinder sign.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall have the right to deny any request for a
placard to be affixed to a wayfinder sign for any reason including, but not
limited to, lack of space, aesthetics, public/traffic safety, or nonconformance
with the rules established by the Village Administrator.
   (F)   Priority for placard space on a wayfinder sign shall be given to the
locations of governmental buildings, historical sites, parks, public locations,
streets and locations of public accommodation such as schools and hospitals.
   (G)   Priority for private entities shall be based upon the timeliness of
the application and payment. The Village shall have the right to remove or move
the placard of a private entity, without prior notice, so as to make space for
placards identifying the locations specified in subsection (F) of this section.
Any placard so removed shall be affixed to another wayfinder sign as space
becomes available.
   (H)   The Village Administrator shall establish written rules for the
erection, maintenance and the removal of individual placards on wayfinder
signs. The Village Administrator shall establish a monthly fee to be paid by
private entities having their names affixed to a wayfinder sign for the
continued maintenance of wayfinder signs throughout the Village. (Ord. O-9-17-
3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-14-1: Administrative Organization Of Title
9-14-2: Office Of Code Enforcement Officer
9-14-3: Office Of The Planning Department
9-14-4: Office Of Village Clerk
9-14-5: Zoning Board Of Appeals
9-14-6: Village Board Of Trustees
9-14-7: Planning Commission
9-14-8: Building Permits
9-14-9: Reserved
9-14-10: Variances
9-14-11: Appeals
9-14-12: Special Use Permits
9-14-13: Amendments
9-14-14: Notice Provisions
9-14-15: Temporary Permits
9-14-16: Fees
9-14-17: Penalties
9-14-18: Reversion
9-14-19: Rehearings
9-14-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF TITLE:
The administration of this title is vested in the following offices or
agencies:
The Office of Code Enforcement Officer (section
9-14-2 of this chapter).
The Office of the Planning Department (section
9-14-3 of this chapter).
The Office of Village Clerk (section
9-14-4 of this chapter).
The Village Board of Trustees (section
9-14-6 of this chapter).
The Village Planning Commission (section
9-14-7 of this chapter). (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-2: OFFICE OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Code Enforcement Officer shall mean the Director of the Building Department
as established in section
4-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-3: OFFICE OF THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT:
The authorized organizational personnel of the Planning Department shall
administer that portion of this title as required, and shall:
   (A)   Prepare and cause to be published in a newspaper as a legal notice, on
or before April 30 of each year, maps showing the existing zoning uses,
divisions, restrictions, regulations and classifications in effect.
   (B)   Maintain permanent and current records of this title including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, special use permits, planned unit
developments, variations, appeals, and applications thereof.
   (C)   Advise all persons seeking zoning information of the existence of
official plans of the Village and the relationship of these plans to zoning.
   (D)   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to all
matters arising out of this title.
   (E)   Receive, file and forward to the Village Board (with copies to the
Planning Commission where applicable) all applications for amendments, special
use permits, planned unit developments and other matters on which the Village
Board is required to pass under this title.
   (F)   Receive, file and forward to the Planning Commission all applications
for variations and other matters on which the commission is required to pass
under this title.
   (G)   Keep the Village Board advised on zoning activities. (Ord. O-9-17-3,
9-18-2017)
9-14-4: OFFICE OF VILLAGE CLERK:
The Village Clerk and his/her authorized organizational personnel shall
administer that portion of this title prescribing duties for the Village Clerk,
and shall:
   (A)   Accept appeals filed in the Village Clerk's Office and forward same to
the Village Planning Commission for appropriate action.
   (B)   Maintain copies of this title and the official zoning map for
reference by the public. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-5: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
See title 2, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-6: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The Village Board shall establish the standards, procedures and contents of
this title and shall reserve certain matters of final decision to itself.
Decisions of the Village Board shall be subject to judicial review as the law
may provide, and the jurisdiction of the Village Board shall be:
   (A)   To decide variations, special uses, amendments (text and map) and
planned unit developments after report by the Village Planning Commission.
   (B)   To confirm appointments to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   To decide all matters required by this title.
   (D)   To initiate text and comprehensive amendments to this title. (Ord. O-
9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-7: PLANNING COMMISSION:
The Planning Commission shall have the following jurisdiction and authority:
   (A)   Board Of Appeals: To hear and decide appeals from, and to review
orders, decisions, or determinations made by the Director of Building and
Zoning and to that end have the power of the Director of Building and Zoning
with respect to such order, decision, or determination.
   (B)   Variations: To hear, review, and offer its recommendations to the
Village President and Board of Trustees on applications for variations from the
requirements of this title.
   (C)   Comprehensive Plan: To prepare and recommend a Comprehensive Plan,
including an official map, to the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Comprehensive Plan Amendments: To review, prepare, and recommend to
the Village President and Board of Trustees changes in and amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan, including the official map.
   (E)   Zoning Ordinance Amendments: To initiate, hear, review, and offer its
recommendations to the Village President and Board of Trustees on applications
for amendments to this title.
   (F)   Special Use Permits: To hear, review, and offer its recommendations to
the Village President and Board of Trustees on applications for special use
permits.
   (G)   Planned Unit Development: To hear, review, and offer its
recommendations to the Village President and Board of Trustees on applications
for planned unit development approval.
   (H)   Site Plan Approval: To hear, review, and offer its recommendations to
the Village President and Board of Trustees on applications for, or appeals
from the Director of Building and Zoning denial of, site plan approval made to
the Village President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-8: BUILDING PERMITS:
   (A)   Requirements And Restrictions: The building permit purchaser shall
comply with all requirements and restrictions as set forth in this title, all
requirements and restrictions as set forth in title 4 of this Code and all
requirements and restrictions that appear on the current building permit
application as approved by the Village Board.
   (B)   Penalties: Any person who, either intentionally or unintentionally,
disregards, disobeys, neglects, omits or refuses to comply with, or resists
enforcement of any provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Any work done, actions taken or projects completed without a
required permit or inspections shall, without exception, be subject to all
application requirements, fees, inspections and penalties as required by this
section. Any illegal work, action, project or use begun, continued or completed
that does not comply with this title or other Village ordinance, shall be
stopped, removed, or altered by the order of the Director of Building and
Zoning. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-10: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Authority: The Planning Commission, after a public hearing, shall
recommend to the Village Board, any variance of the regulations of this title.
Variance may be requested only in cases where there are practical difficulties
or particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this title relating to the use, construction or alterations of
buildings or structures or the use of land. The variance is intended as a
device for adjustment where this title creates unnecessary and undue hardship
in unusual cases, to give affected property owners rights as nearly equal as
possible to those of others in the same district. However, no variance shall be
granted under this section to allow a structure or use in a district restricted
against such structure or use. Variance may be recommended only where such
commission makes findings of fact in accordance with the standards hereinafter
prescribed, and further, finds that there are practical difficulties or
particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this title.
   (B)   Application And Notice Of Hearing: An application for a variation
shall be filed in writing with the Code Enforcement Officer. The application
shall contain such information as the Planning Commission and Village Board
may, by rule, require. Notice of the time and place of such public hearing
shall be published at least once in the official newspaper not more than thirty
(30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Findings: The Planning Commission shall not recommend to vary the
provisions of this title as authorized in this section, unless it shall have
made findings based upon the evidence presented regarding the following points:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures, or buildings in the same zoning districts. In
addition:
         (a)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same district and the same vicinity.
         (b)   The condition or situation of the property is not of so general
or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a
general regulation to be adopted as an amendment to this title. (In such cases,
the commission shall take steps to initiate consideration of such an
amendment.)
      2.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant or by any person presently having an interest in the
property.
         (a)   The hardship is created by the physical character of the
property, including dimensions, topography, or soil conditions, or by other
extraordinary situation or condition of such property.
         (b)   Self-inflicted or personal hardship shall not be considered as
grounds for a variance, since the variance will continue to affect the
character of the neighborhood after title to the property has passed.
      3.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege or convenience that is denied by this title to
other lands, buildings, or structures in the same zoning district.
      4.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same zoning district under the terms of this title and would work unnecessary
and undue hardship on the applicant.
      5.   That the variance granted is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure.
      6.   That the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the
general intent and purpose of this title and that such variance will not be
injurious to the public welfare. Further, that the granting of the variance
will not be of substantial detriment to adjacent property values and that the
character of the district will not be changed by such granting.
   (D)   Conditions And Safeguards: In recommending the granting of any
variance, the commission may specify appropriate conditions, safeguards and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variance as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the
effect of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood, and to
implement the general purpose and intent of this title. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
   (E)   Restrictions: Under no circumstances except as permitted above shall
the commission recommend to grant a variance to permit a use not generally or
by special exception permitted in the zoning district involved or any use
expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in the zoning
district. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings
in the same zoning district and no permitted use of lands, structures, or
buildings in other zoning districts shall be considered grounds for the
authorization of a variance.
   (F)   Effective Period: No order of the Village Board granting a variation
shall be valid for a period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days from the
date of such order, unless a building permit is obtained within such period and
the erection or alteration of a building is started or the use is commenced
within such period. The Village Board may grant one extension, valid for no
more than one hundred eighty (180) additional days, upon written application
and good cause shown, without notice or hearing, provided such application is
received before the expiration of the original effective period. If any of the
benefits conferred by a variation, whether heretofore or hereafter granted, are
abandoned, or are not utilized for any continuous period of one year, said
variation shall, to the extent of such abandonment or nonutilization, become
valid only after a public hearing as provided herein.
   (G)   Decisions: Not more than sixty (60) days after the close of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall make its findings of fact and its
recommendation, in writing, to the Village Board. The concurring vote of four
(4) members of the commission shall be necessary to grant a variance. The
Village Board may, through a motion passed by a majority of votes, accept or
reject the recommendation of the Planning Commission. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-14-11: APPEALS:
   (A)   Authority: The Planning Commission shall hear and make recommendations
to the Village Board from an administrative order, requirement or determination
under this title.
   (B)   Scope Of Appeals: An appeal, in which it is alleged that there is
error in any decision made by the Code Enforcement Officer under this title,
may be taken to the Planning Commission by any person or governmental agency
aggrieved by such decision or by any department, or officer of the Village.
Such an appeal shall be taken and filed with the Village Clerk within twenty
(20) days from the date of the action on which the appeal is taken specifying
the grounds thereof. The appeal shall specify the alleged error or errors in
such order, requirement, decision, or determination. The Village Clerk shall,
without delay, forward to the commission a copy of the notice of appeal
together with all the records pertaining to the decision on which the appeal is
made.
   (C)   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the decision appealed unless the Code Enforcement Officer
certifies to the Planning Commission after the notice of the appeal has been
filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this event,
the proceedings shall not be stayed unless by a restraining order, which may be
granted by the commission or by a court of record on application, on notice to
the Code Enforcement Officer and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Hearing: The Planning Commission shall render a written recommendation
on the appeal within a reasonable time, but in no event more than sixty (60)
days after the closing of the public hearing, and shall promptly forward a copy
of the recommendation to the Village Board. The Village Board may affirm or may
reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the decision of the Code Enforcement
Officer, as in its opinion ought to be done, and to that end shall have the
powers of the Code Enforcement Officer. All decisions of the Village Board
shall, in all instances, be final administrative determinations and shall be
subject to judicial review only in accordance with applicable Illinois
Statutes. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-12: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   (A)   Purpose: This title is based upon the division of the Village into
districts, within which the use of land, and the uses of bulk of buildings and
structures, are substantially uniform. However, within the Village generally,
or within certain zoning districts, certain uses specified in this title are of
a nature requiring special and intensive review to determine whether they
should be permitted in specified locations, and to identify the special
conditions and safeguards which should be applied if permission is granted in
such locations. Special use procedures as provided herein are intended to
assure that such review is made and that appropriate conditions and safeguards
are attached. Special use procedures shall be applied, and special exceptions
granted, only as, and in cases, specified in this title.
   (B)   Categories: It is recognized that there are special uses which,
because of their unique characteristics, can only be properly classified in any
particular district or districts upon consideration in each case of the impact
of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public need for the particular
use at the particular location. Such special uses fall into three (3)
categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest;
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property, public facilities, or the Village as a whole;
and
      3.   Uses, either public or private, that because of past or present
conditions, need special consideration.
   (C)   Authority: Special use permits shall be reviewed and heard by the
Planning Commission, but only in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
set forth. The Planning Commission shall make their recommendations to the
Village Board.
   (D)   Application And Notice Of Hearing: An application for a special use
permit shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Officer, who shall forward a
copy of the application to the Planning Commission. The application shall be in
such form, contain such information, and be accompanied by such plans, as the
Village Board, Planning Commission, or Code Enforcement Officer may deem
appropriate. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at
least once, not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before
the hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. The
published notice may be supplemented by such additional form of notice as the
Board may provide by rule. The appellant shall have notified all adjoining
owners by certified letter, return receipt requested, at least five (5) days
prior to the hearing. The letter shall indicate the time, place and date of the
public hearing and give a description of the request.
   (E)   Application Standards: The application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The extent to which the proposed special use departs from the zoning
and subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, the density, dimensions, area, bulk, and uses,
and the reasons why such departures are deemed to be in the public interest.
      2.   In what respects the proposed special use meets the requirements and
standards of the special use regulations.
      3.   The method by which the proposed special use makes adequate
provisions for public services, provided adequate control over vehicular
traffic, provides for and protects designated, common open space and furthers
the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
      4.   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed special use to
adjacent properties and neighborhoods.
      5.   The desirability of the proposed special use to physical
development, tax base and economic well being of the Village.
      6.   The conformity with the intent and spirit of the Comprehensive Plans
of the Village.
   (F)   Recommendation By The Planning Commission: Within sixty (60) days
after the close of the hearing, unless the applicant shall have consented to a
longer period, the commission shall transmit to the Village Board a written
report giving its findings and recommendations for special use permits issued,
and on the restrictions to be imposed upon the premises benefited by the
special use permit. Where the special use is denied, the record of the
commission shall set forth, and the applicant shall receive notice of, the
specific grounds for denial.
   (G)   Action By The Commission, Findings Required:
      1.   Before granting any application for a special use, the commission
shall make written findings that it is empowered under specified sections of
this title to grant the special use and that the granting of the exception will
not adversely affect the public interest. The commission shall also make
written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules and requirements
governing individual special uses, and that, where applicable, satisfactory
provision and arrangement has been made concerning the following:
         (a)   Ingress and egress to the property and proposed structures or
uses thereon, with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and
convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or
catastrophe.
         (b)   Off street parking and loading areas, where required, with
particular attention to the items in subsection (G)1(a) of this section.
         (c)   Refuse and service areas.
         (d)   Control of noise, glare, odor, or other potentially adverse
effects of the proposed use on nearby property, and screening or buffering to
alleviate such effects. Control of drainage and erosion.
         (e)   Utilities, with reference to location, availability and
potentially adverse appearance or other effects on surroundings.
         (f)   Signs and lighting, with reference to glare, traffic safety, and
compatibility and harmony with adjoining properties and the character of the
are
         (g)   Required yards and other open spaces.
      2.   No special use permit will be granted unless:
         (a)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort or general welfare.   
         (b)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair values within the neighborhood.
         (c)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      3.   The special use shall in all other respects conform to the
applicable regulation of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may in each instance be modified by the Village Board pursuant to
the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Conditions And Safeguards: The commission may impose such conditions
relating to the special use as it may deem necessary in the particular case to
protect the public interest, in relation to the items listed at subsection (G)1
of this section and as may otherwise be reasonably necessary, and may require a
guarantee or bond to ensure continued compliance with such conditions and
continued maintenance of such safeguards. Violations of conditions or
safeguards lawfully attached to any special use shall be deemed violations of
this title.
   (I)   Special Exceptions Apply To Property, Not Person: When granted, a
special exception, together with any conditions or safeguards attached, shall
apply to the land, structure or use for which it was issued, and not to a
particular person.
   (J)   Withdrawal Of Application; Rehearing If Withdrawn Or Denied: An
application for a special use may be withdrawn at any time, but if withdrawn
after the commission has convened the public hearing at which it was to be
considered, or if denied by the Village Board, substantially the same
application shall not be considered within twenty four (24) months from the
date of the withdrawal or denial. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-13: AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   Authority: The regulations and districts established by this title may
be amended from time to time by the Village Board through the enactment of an
amending ordinance. No such amendment shall be made without a public hearing
before the Planning Commission and a report of findings and recommendations
submitted to the Village Board by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Initiation: Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board, Planning
Commission, Code Enforcement Officer, and by any other person, firm or
corporation having a freehold interest, a possessory interest entitled to
exclusive possession, a contractual interest which may become a freehold
interest, an option to purchase, or any exclusive possessory interest in which
is specifically enforceable on the land which is described in the application
for an amendment.
No application for amendment to this title shall be made which proposes
reclassification of any of the same property within any zoning district that
has been subject of a public hearing held by the Planning Commission within
twenty four (24) months preceding the date of filing.
   (C)   Processing: The process for obtaining an amendment shall be as
follows:
      1.   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Code
Enforcement Officer and thereafter entered into the records of the first
meeting thereafter of the Village Board. The application shall be in such form
as to contain such information and be accompanied by such plans as the Planning
Commission and Village Board by rule may require.
      2.   A copy of such application shall thereafter be forwarded by the Code
Enforcement Officer to the Planning Commission with a request to hold a public
hearing.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within ninety
(90) days after receiving the application from the Code Enforcement Officer.
Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least once,
not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before the hearing in
a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. The published notice may be
supplemented by such additional form of notice as the Planning Commission and
Village Board may provide by rule. The appellant shall have notified all
adjoining owners by certified letter, return receipt requested, at least five
(5) days prior to the hearing. The letter shall indicate the time, place and
date of the public hearing and give a description of the request.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall, within sixty (60) days after the
hearing, transmit a written report giving its findings and recommendations to
the Village Board.
   (D)   Review Consideration:
      1.   In reviewing an amendment, the Planning Commission shall give
careful attention to the following:
         (a)   The effect of the proposed amendments on the comprehensive
planning of the entire Village.
         (b)   The changes in community characteristics that may take place
because of the projected change.
         (c)   The relative effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the present
wording of the ordinance, and whether a justification for change exists because
of either special reasons or a change in conditions.
         (d)   Whether the amendment is designed to correct an improper
situation or would result merely in the granting of special privileges.
      2.   Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to change
the zoning classification of particular property, the Planning Commission shall
make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specified case
with respect to the following matters in addition to all points listed above:
         (a)   Existing uses of property within the general area of the
property in question.
         (b)   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question.
         (c)   The suitability of the property in question for the use
permitted under the existing zoning classification.
         (d)   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which may have taken place
since the day the property in question was placed in its present zoning
classification.
         (e)   Conformance or nonconformance with officially adopted plans of
the Village.
         (f)   The proposed amendment is in the public interest and is not
solely for the interest of the applicant.
   (E)   Decisions: The Village Board, upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission, may grant or deny any proposed amendment in accordance with
applicable Illinois Statutes, or may refer it back to the Planning Commission
for further consideration.
In cases of written protest against any proposed amendment, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered,
such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of five (5)
members of the Village Board.
If no action is taken by the Village Board within six (6) months after the
report of the Planning Commission, the application shall be deemed to have been
denied and shall not thereafter be granted. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-14: NOTICE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Publication Of Notice: Notice of the time and place of the hearing of
any proposed variation, special use, amendment, or planned development shall be
given by the Code Enforcement Officer not more than thirty (30) days nor less
than fifteen (15) days before the hearing by publishing such notice at least
once in one or more newspapers published in the Village or in general
circulation within the Village.
   (B)   Contents Of Notice: In each case where notice is required to be given
under this section, such notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   Time and place of public hearing.
      2.   Common street address and legal description of subject property.
      3.   A brief statement setting forth the nature of the proposed
variation, special use, amendment, or planned development.
      4.   The name of each applicant.
   (C)   Notice To Owners Of Nearby Property:
      1.   At the time of the filing of an application for any proposed
variation, special use, amendment or planned development, the applicant shall
furnish to the Code Enforcement Officer a complete list of the names and
addresses of the owners of all property adjacent to or across from the subject
site within a one hundred fifty foot (150') radius from any property line. The
public roads, streets, alley, and other public ways shall be excluded in
determining this requirement. The property owners to be notified shall be those
whom were sent tax bills for the general taxes for the last preceding tax year.
The Planning Commission shall hear no case unless the applicant furnishes such
list.
      2.   The applicant for such zoning action shall send written notice by
return receipt certified mail to all persons whose names appear on the
adjoining property owner's list. The applicant shall be responsible for
providing the Code Enforcement Officer with the receipts at least twenty four
(24) hours prior to the public hearing. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-15: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
   (A)   Authority: The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized by this title to
issue a temporary permit for uses specifically authorized in particular zoning
districts as temporary permit uses.
   (B)   Application: An application for a temporary permit shall be made to
the Code Enforcement Officer in writing on a form provided by the Village. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit only after he is satisfied that
the use allowed by the temporary permit will not adversely affect the public
health, safety or general welfare of the Village and/or immediate neighborhood.
   (C)   Hearing: The Code Enforcement Officer may, if he so desires, hold a
public hearing on the request for a temporary permit, or may contact the
property owners affected by the proposed use regarding their opinion of the
use.
   (D)   Conditions: The Code Enforcement Officer may require that certain
conditions relating to the public health, safety or general welfare be complied
with before the issuance of a temporary permit.
   (E)   Decisions: The Code Enforcement Officer shall render a written
decision on the application for a temporary permit within a reasonable time and
promptly forward a copy of the decision to the petitioner. Appeals from the
decision of the Code Enforcement Officer can be made to the Village Board.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-16: FEES:
The Village Board shall establish and amend from time to time a schedule of
fees, charges and expenses required for building permits, zoning certificates,
certificates of occupancy, variation, special use permits, temporary use
permits, amendments, signs and other matters pertaining to this title.
Until all such required fees have been paid, no application for any of the
above shall be deemed to have been filed and no action shall be taken on such
application.
All fees shall be paid to the Office of the Code Enforcement Officer or the
Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-17: PENALTIES:
Any person who either intentionally or unintentionally violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any
provisions of this title, shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. O-9-17-
3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-18: REVERSION:
   (A)   Scope Of Authority:
      1.   A variance, special use permit or change in zoning may be reverted
or revoked as provided in this chapter if the testimony upon which such
variance, special use permit or zoning change was falsely given.
      2.   A change of zoning shall be reverted as provided for in this chapter
if the permitted variance, special use or permitted use is not in full
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title.
      3.   A change of zoning may be reverted as provided for in this title if
the land zoned has not been put to use as allowed in such zoned district within
three (3) years of its change of zoning.
   (B)   Initiation: Reversions may be proposed by the Village Board, Planning
Commission, Code Enforcement Officer or by any person aggrieved by a variance,
special use permit or change in zoning.
   (C)   Processing: The process for reverting a variance or special use permit
or change in zoning shall be as follows:
      1.   An application for a reversion shall be filed with the Code
Enforcement Officer and shall be in such form, contain such information and be
accompanied by such plans as the Planning Commission by rule may require.
      2.   A copy of such application shall thereafter be forwarded by the Code
Enforcement Officer to the Planning Commission with a request to hold a public
hearing.
The Planning Commission shall hear special use requests, changes in zoning and
reversions of variances.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within ninety
(90) days after receiving the application from the Code Enforcement Officer.
Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least once,
not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before the hearing in
a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. A copy of such notice shall
be mailed by registered letter, return receipt requested, to the current
interest holders of the land as found on the last tax assessment.
      4.   The public hearing shall be held in the Village Hall.
      5.   The Planning Commission shall, within sixty (60) days after the
hearing, transmit a written report giving its findings and recommendations to
the Village Board.
   (D)   Decision: The Village Board, upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission, may grant or deny any proposed reversion or may refer it back to
the Planning Commission for further consideration. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-14-19: REHEARINGS:
Once the Village Board has decided a case, substantially the same case shall
not be allowed to come before it again. All decisions of the Village Board
shall, in all instances, be final administrative determinations and shall be
subject to judicial review only in accordance with applicable Illinois
Statutes.
   (A)   Applications For Rehearings: Applications for rehearings shall be
filed with the Village Clerk. Evidence in support of the application shall
initially be limited to that necessary to enable the Village Board to determine
whether there has been a substantial change in the facts, evidence, or
conditions in the case.
   (B)   Determination By The Village Board: Within thirty (30) days of
acceptance of the application by the Village Clerk, the Village Board shall
make its determination on the application for rehearing. The application shall
be denied if it is found from record that there has been no substantial change
in the facts, evidence, or conditions in the case. If the Village Board finds
that there has been a change, the applicant shall be authorized to submit a new
application or appeal and the appropriate procedures shall be followed to
continue the process. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 15
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-15-1: Purpose
9-15-2: Definitions
9-15-3: Standards
9-15-4: Maintenance And Operation
9-15-5: Noise Levels
9-15-6: Decommissioning Plan
9-15-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the location, installation, and
maintenance of wind energy conversion systems. The promotion of safe, effective
and efficient use of wind energy systems will be balanced against the need to
preserve and protect public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
9-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: The person or entity filing an application under this chapter.
BUILDING MOUNTED: A wind energy conversion system that is mounted to the roof
or part of a house or building.
COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system (WECS) or
combination of wind energy conversion systems that is designed to have a
capacity in excess of the amount needed for residential and agricultural uses
and that has a combined nameplate capacity of greater than one hundred
kilowatts (100 kW).
DROP LINE: The area surrounding the wind energy conversion system where the
tower would land if it were to fall.
MAST MOUNTED: Freestanding wind energy conversion system that is located near
the building(s).
OWNER: The individual or entity that intends to own and operate the wind energy
system in accordance with this chapter.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (NONCOMMERCIAL): A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated controls or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of not more than one hundred kilowatts
(100 kW) and which is intended to primarily reduce on site consumption of
utility power.
TOTAL HEIGHT: The vertical distance from ground level to the center of the hub.
TOWER: Monopole structures only.
WIND TURBINE: A wind energy conversion system that converts wind energy into
electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and includes the
nacelle, rotor, tower, and pad transformer. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-15-3: STANDARDS:
In addition to those requirements specified in section
9-14-12 of this title, the following minimum requirements shall be met before a
special use permit is granted to an applicant:
   (A)   Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems:
      1.   Building Permit: All wind energy conversion systems require a
building permit prior to the initiation of construction. Owners must comply
with all applicable building codes adopted by the Village. A set of drawings
and engineering analysis that conforms to manufacturer's standards, which has
been certified by a licensed professional engineer, shall be submitted with the
building permit application.
      2.   Climb Prevention: All WECS project towers or poles must be
unclimbable by design or protected by anticlimbing devices such as:
         (a)   Fences with locking portals at least six feet (6') high; or
         (b)   Anticlimbing devices twelve feet (12') from base of pole.
      3.   Color: Towers and blades shall be painted a nonreflective,
unobtrusive color that blends into the surrounding landscape to the greatest
extent possible. Advertising, streamers and printing are prohibited.
      4.   Compliance With Additional Regulations: It shall be the
responsibility of the person in charge of the WECS project to contact the FCC
and FAA regarding additional permits necessary or any other applicable Federal
or State regulations for the installation of a WECS project prior to the public
hearing before the Plan Commission. The WECS projects shall be UL approved and
ASEE certified or the equivalent.
      5.   Compliance With FAA: It shall be the responsibility of the person in
charge of the WECS project to complete the proper FAA applications and obtain
the proper permits for the WECS project. It shall also be the responsibility of
the person in charge of the WECS project to obtain a determination of no
significant impact to air navigation from the FAA.
      6.   Controls And Brakes: All WECS projects shall be equipped with manual
and automatic controls and mechanical brakes to limit rotation of blades to a
speed below the designed limits of a WECS. For purposes of this section,
"manual and automatic controls" mean controls which give protection to power
grids and limit rotation of a WECS' blades to below the designed limits of the
conversion system. The professional engineer or authorized factory
representative must certify that the rotor and overspeed control design and
fabrication conform to good engineering practices. No changes or alterations
from the certified design shall be permitted unless accompanied by a
professional engineer's or the authorized factory representative's statement of
certification.
      7.   Design Safety Certification: The safety of the design of all WECS
towers shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer. The standard for
certification shall be good engineering practices and shall conform to all the
Village's officially adopted codes.
      8.   Height: Wind generator machine height must comply with all FAA
regulations.
      9.   Installation Certification: A licensed professional engineer or
certified manufacturer's representative or installer shall certify that the
construction and installation of the WECS project meets or exceeds the
manufacturer's construction and installation standards.
      10.   Lighting: Lighting for the towers shall be constructed in
accordance with the minimum requirements and standards allowed by the FAA or
other regulatory authority in an effort to minimize the visual impact of the
structures.
      11.   Migratory Birds: An avian study shall be conducted by a qualified
third party professional, such as an ornithologist or wildlife biologist, to
determine if there is any potential impact the WECS project may present to
migratory birds. The study must provide assurances that the WECS project does
not negatively impact the path of migratory birds. The results of the study
shall be made available at the hearing before the Plan Commission.
      12.   Mounting: All wind energy conversion systems shall be mast mounted.
Building mounted WECS will require an additional special use permit.
      13.   Roads: Any proposed access roads that will be used for construction
purposes shall be identified and approved by the township Road Commissioner or
the Village Engineer, whoever has jurisdiction, prior to the hearing before the
Plan Commission.
Any road damage caused by the transport of the facility's equipment, the
installation, or the removal, must be completely repaired to the satisfaction
of the township Road Commissioner or the Village Engineer, whoever has
jurisdiction.
      14.   Setbacks:
         (a)   Setbacks from public roads and property lines shall be
established in the underlying zoning district.
         (b)   All WECS towers shall be at least seven hundred fifty feet
(750') from any adjoining property's dwelling unit, and no less than 1.25 times
the tower height from the applying property owner's dwelling unit.
         (c)   The drop line for all WECS towers shall allow the tower, should
it fall, to remain on the owner's property in all directions.
         (d)   All WECS towers shall be set back a distance of at least 1.25
times the WECS tower height from the third party transmission lines and
telecommunications carrier facilities.
         (e)   Any variance of the applicable setback requirements, whether
required in this chapter or elsewhere in these regulations, shall be recorded
with the Village Clerk or Kankakee County Recorder of Deeds, whichever has
jurisdiction.
      15.   Warnings: A visible warning sign of "high voltage" must be placed
at the base of all WECS projects. The sign must have at a minimum six inch (6")
letters. Such signs shall be located a maximum of three hundred feet (300')
apart and at all points of site ingress and egress.
   (B)   Small Wind Energy Systems (Noncommercial):
      1.   Building Permit: All wind energy conversion systems require a
building permit prior to the initiation of construction. Owners must comply
with all applicable building codes adopted by the Village. A set of drawings
and engineering analysis that conforms to manufacturer's standards, which has
been certified by a licensed professional engineer, shall be submitted with the
building permit application.
      2.   Color: Towers and blades shall be painted a nonreflective,
unobtrusive color that blends into the surrounding landscape to the greatest
extent possible. No advertising, streamers, or printing shall be allowed.
      3.   Height: The total height of a small wind energy system shall not
exceed sixty feet (60') on parcels of less than five (5) acres. For property
sizes greater than five (5) acres there is a height limitation of one hundred
feet (100'). The maximum height must be compliant with FAA standards.
      4.   Lighting: Lighting for towers shall be constructed in accordance
with the minimum requirements and standards allowed by the FAA or other
regulatory authority in an effort to minimize the visual impact of the
structures.
      5.   Installation: All noncommercial wind energy systems shall be
installed per the manufacturer's standards. The standards must include
compliance with all of the Village's officially adopted codes.
      6.   Mounting: All wind energy conversion systems shall be mast mounted.
Building mounted WECS will require an additional special use permit.
      7.   Setbacks: All parts of the small wind energy conversion system shall
be subject to setback requirements, including those outlined in the underlying
zoning district and this section.
         (a)   Setbacks from public roads shall be established by the
underlying zoning district.
         (b)   Setbacks from property lines shall be a distance equal to 1.25
times the total height.
         (c)   Setbacks from the applicant's dwelling shall be a distance equal
to 1.25 times the total height.
      8.   Warnings: A visible warning sign of "high voltage" must be placed at
the base of all WECS projects. All signs, other than the manufacturer's or
installer's identification, appropriate warning signs, or owner identification
on a wind generator, tower, building, or other structure associated with a
small wind energy system, visible from any public road shall be prohibited.
      9.   Installation Certification: A licensed professional engineer or
certified manufacturer's representative or installer shall certify that the
construction and installation of the WECS project meets or exceeds the
manufacturer's construction and installation standards.
      10.   Compliance With Additional Regulations: It shall be the
responsibility of the person in charge of the WECS project to contact the FCC
and FAA regarding additional permits necessary or any other applicable Federal
or State regulations for the installation of a WECS project prior to the public
hearing before the Plan Commission. All WECS projects shall be UL approved and
ASEE certified or the equivalent. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-15-4: MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
   (A)   Annual Inspection: Every commercial WECS project must be inspected
annually by an authorized factory representative, at the owner's expense, to
certify that it is in good working condition and not a hazard to the public. A
copy of said annual inspection must be filed with the Department of Planning
and Zoning within fifteen (15) days after the inspection report is received by
the WECS project owner/manager. Inspections and documentation, as specified
above, shall be required every three (3) years, at a minimum, for noncommercial
units.
   (B)   Interference: If the authorized factory representative determines that
the commercial WECS project causes severe interference with microwave
transmissions, residential television interference or radio reception, the
commercial WECS owner must take commercially reasonable steps to correct the
problem. Evidence that the authorized factory representative has determined
that no such interference will occur or that interference has been corrected
must be presented at the public hearing before the Plan Commission. A small
wind energy conversion system must submit to planning and zoning information
from the manufacturer that certifies that the system will not interfere with
microwave transmissions, residential television or radio reception.
   (C)   Fire Risk: All WECS projects must adhere to all applicable Electrical
Codes and standards and must remove fuel sources, such as vegetation, from the
immediate vicinity of electrical gear and connections. Every WECS project must
utilize twistable cables on turbines. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-15-5: NOISE LEVELS:
Noise levels shall be regulated by the Illinois Pollution Control Agency rules
and regulations and the applicant shall certify that applicant's facility is in
compliance with the same. Applicant shall provide certification from the
manufacturer that the noise level will not exceed sixty (60) decibels as
measured at the nearest property line. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-15-6: DECOMMISSIONING PLAN:
   (A)   Commercial wind energy conversion systems: The WECS project must
contain a decommissioning plan to ensure it is properly decommissioned at the
end of the project life or facility abandonment. For purposes of this section,
"facility abandonment" shall mean a consecutive period of time of not less than
one year. Decommissioning shall include: removal of all structures (including
transmission equipment and fencing) and debris to a depth of four feet (4'),
restoration of the soil, and restoration of vegetation within six (6) months of
the end of project life or facility abandonment. The decommissioning plan shall
state how the facility will be decommissioned, the professional engineer's
estimated cost of decommissioning, the financial resources to be used to
accomplish decommissioning, and the escrow agent with which the resources shall
be deposited. The decommissioning plan shall be updated every six (6) years
regardless of the type of unit, at a minimum. The decommissioning plan shall
also include an agreement between the applicant and the Village of Grant Park
which states:
      1.   The financial resources for decommissioning, which shall be in the
form of a surety bond, or shall be deposited in an escrow account with an
escrow agent acceptable to the Village Board, shall be renewed annually.
      2.   If the applicant chooses an escrow agreement:
         (a)   A written escrow agreement will be prepared, establishing the
amount of disbursement; and
         (b)   The Village shall have access to the escrow account funds for
the purpose of completing decommissioning if not completed by the applicant
within six (6) months of the end of project life or facility abandonment.
      3.   The Village is granted the right of entry onto the site, pursuant to
reasonable notice, to effect or complete decommissioning.
      4.   The Village is granted the right to seek injunctive relief to effect
or complete decommissioning, as well as the Village's right to seek
reimbursement from applicant or applicant's successor for decommissioning costs
in excess of the amount deposited in escrow and to file a lien against any real
estate owned by applicant or applicant's successor, or in which they have an
interest, for the amount of the excess, and to take all steps allowed by law to
enforce said lien.
Financial provisions shall not be so onerous as to make WECS projects
unfeasible.
   (B)   Small wind energy conversion systems (noncommercial): The WECS project
application shall contain a notarized letter stating that a decommissioning
plan exists for a time when the WECS is no longer in operation. A facility
shall be deemed to have ceased operation if it has been idle for a period of
twelve (12) months. The owner must certify that decommissioning will include
removal of all structures (including transmission equipment and fencing) and
debris to a depth of four feet (4'), restoration of the soil, and restoration
of vegetation within six (6) months of the end of project life or facility
abandonment. In the event that decommissioning is not completed by the owner,
the Village of Grant Park is granted the right to seek reimbursement for
decommissioning costs and to file a lien against any real property owned by the
applicant or applicant's successor, or in which they have an interest, and to
take all steps allowed by law to enforce said lien. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 16
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Purpose
9-16-2: Definitions
9-16-3: Standards
9-16-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the location and installation of
photovoltaic systems. The promotion of safe, effective and efficient use of
photovoltaic systems will be balanced against the need to preserve and protect
the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: The person or entity filing an application under this chapter.
OWNER: The individual or entity that intends to own and operate the
photovoltaic system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM: A device for changing light rays from the sun directly
into electricity, also called solar cell. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-16-3: STANDARDS:
In addition to those requirements specified in section
9-14-12 of this title, the following minimum requirements shall be met before a
special use permit is granted to an applicant:
   (A)   Building Permit: All photovoltaic systems require a building permit
prior to the initiation of construction. Licensed drawings and specifications
shall be submitted to the Village of Grant Park and shall evidence compliance
with all applicable ordinances of the Village.
   (B)   Controls: All electrical controls shall be inspected by a State of
Illinois licensed electrician upon installation.
   (C)   Design Safety Certification: The safety of the design of all
photovoltaic systems shall be certified by a State of Illinois licensed
electrician. The standard for certification shall be good engineering practices
and compliance with all applicable ordinances of the Village.
   (D)   Installation Certification: The design of all photovoltaic systems
shall be certified by a State of Illinois licensed electrician. The standard
for certification shall be good engineering practices and compliance with all
applicable ordinances of the Village.
   (E)   Setbacks: Setbacks from public roads and property lines shall be
established in the underlying zoning district.
   (F)   Utilities Agreement: If applicable, proof of an interconnection
agreement between the owner and local public utility company shall be submitted
to the Village of Grant Park with the permit application. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-
2017)
CHAPTER 17
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION AND DISPENSARIES
SECTION:
9-17-1: Purpose And Applicability
9-17-2: Process
9-17-3: Medical Cannabis Facility Components
9-17-4: Medical Cannabis Cultivation Center
9-17-5: Medical Cannabis Dispensing Organization
9-17-6: Additional Requirements
9-17-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide regulations regarding
the cultivation and dispensing of medical cannabis occurring within the
corporate limits of the Village of Grant Park. Such facilities shall comply
with all regulations provided in the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program Act, as enacted by the State of Illinois, as may be amended from
time to time (the "Act"), regulations enacted pursuant to authority granted
through the Act, and the regulations provided herein. In the event that the Act
is amended, the more restrictive of the State or Village regulations shall
apply. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-17-2: PROCESS:
Medical cannabis facilities shall be a special use in the I-1 Light Industrial
District and I-2 Heavy Industrial District and processed in accordance with the
provisions of section
9-14-12 of this title. No medical cannabis facility shall be opened or operated
unless specifically authorized under and pursuant to the Act and this title.
(Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-17-3: MEDICAL CANNABIS FACILITY COMPONENTS:
In determining compliance with section
9-14-12 of this title, the following components of the medical cannabis
facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of other properties in the vicinity:
   (A)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   (B)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, total square
footage, security installations/security plan, and Building Code compliance.
   (C)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   (D)   Anticipated parking demand based and available private parking supply,
including any unique demand for handicapped parking.
   (E)   Traffic generation and adjacent roadway capacity.
   (F)   Site design, including access points, internal site circulation and
commercial vehicle loading, unloading and parking.
   (G)   Proposed signage plan.
   (H)   Compliance with all requirements provided in section
9-17-4, "Medical Cannabis Cultivation Center", or 9-17-5, "Medical Cannabis
Dispensing Organization", of this chapter, as applicable.
   (I)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
section
9-14-12 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-17-4: MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:
In those zoning districts in which a medical cannabis cultivation center may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility (the enclosed, locked facility where medical cannabis will be
grown, harvested, manufactured, packaged, or otherwise prepared for
distribution) may not be located within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500')
of the property line of a preexisting public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or
residential care home.
   (B)   Facility may not be located within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of the property line for an area zoned residential.
   (C)   Facility may not conduct any retail sales.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, medical cannabis
cultivation centers shall be classified under "Class 24" per section
9-12-6 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-17-5: MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION:
In those zoning districts in which a medical cannabis dispensing organization
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of the property line of a preexisting public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home,
residential care home, or public park.
   (B)   Facility may not be located within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of the property line for any property used residentially or zoned for
a residential, commercial or specialty use.
   (C)   Facility may not have drive-through service.
   (D)   Facility must be a freestanding structure not occupied by any other
business or tenant, or used for any other purpose other than a medical cannabis
dispensing organization.
   (E)   Retail sales occurring within said facility shall be accessory to the
facility's intended use as a dispensing organization and shall not occupy
greater than ten percent (10%) of the total square footage of the facility. For
purposes of calculating the total square footage dedicated to retail sales,
that portion of the floor area dedicated to the distribution of medical
cannabis or medical cannabis infused products shall be excluded from this
calculation; all floor area dedicated to the sale of other medical cannabis
products and/or paraphernalia shall be included.
   (F)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be, at a minimum, classified as "Class 24" per section
9-12-6 of this title. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-17-6: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting, or other improvements, as needed or at the request of the Village, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the medical cannabis
facilities. Said improvements may be required by the Village in excess of those
security measures required by the Act. (Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 18
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-18-1: Purpose
9-18-2: Scope
9-18-3: Exemptions
9-18-4: Definitions
9-18-5: Performance Standards
9-18-6: Special Use Permit Required; Application Submittal And Process
9-18-7: Variances
9-18-8: Certifications And Inspections
9-18-9: Maintenance
9-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a set of comprehensive regulations
pertaining to the location, siting, development, design and permitting of
wireless communications facilities ("WCFs") within all zoning districts
established within the Village in order to: a) facilitate the development of
WCF infrastructure for commercial, public and emergency use, b) encourage the
collocation of WCFs, c) encourage owners, operators or users of WCFs to
configure them in a manner that minimizes the adverse impacts thereof, d)
enhance the ability of providers of WCF services to provide such services
within the Village quickly, efficiently, and effectively, e) establish the
rules and procedures for reviewing zoning applications for WCFs and f) minimize
the total number of WCFs within the Village limits and consistent with the
provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. (Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011;
amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-2: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to all WCFs, whether such WCFs are established as a
principal use or an accessory use unless otherwise exempted from this chapter.
(Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses and activities are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Satellite dishes forty inches (40") or less in diameter;
   (B)   Any tower or antenna owned and operated by a Federally licensed
amateur radio station operator, citizen's band radio operator or for private
noncommercial radio or television reception or which is used exclusively to
receive and not to transmit, provided that no such exempt receive only antenna
shall exceed the highest point on the nearest rooftop of any residential
dwelling or structure by more than ten feet (10');
   (C)   Antennas or equipment located entirely within a structure, in
existence as of the adoption of this chapter, used to enhance or facilitate
communication functioning of other structures on the same site as the structure
in question;
   (D)   WCFs located on property owned or leased or otherwise controlled by
the Village provided that the Village has entered into a license or lease with
respect thereto that has been authorized by the Board of Trustees;
   (E)   Except as otherwise hereinafter specifically provided, WCFs in
existence as of the adoption of this chapter (including the routine maintenance
thereof that does not materially alter the visual impact or appearance thereof)
shall be exempt from this chapter, but any modifications or changes thereto
shall comply fully with the requirements of this chapter;
   (F)   Any WCF used exclusively for governmental law enforcement, fire,
emergency medical service or emergency management service communications; and
   (G)   The requirements of this chapter requiring certain minimum lot sizes
or depths, bulk ratios or lot coverage ratios or prohibiting multiple
structures on a zoning lot or tract of land shall not apply to special use
permit applications made under this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
tower to be used in connection with a WCF may be located on a residentially
zoned lot used for residential purposes consisting of less than two (2) acres.
(Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-4: DEFINITIONS:
ANCILLARY BUILDING: The buildings, structures, enclosures and equipment
required for the operation of a WCF, including, but not limited to, repeaters,
equipment housing, relay equipment, ventilators and electrical and mechanical
equipment.
ANTENNA: A system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves, or radio frequency signals, including waves or signals
for radio, television, cellular, paging, personal wireless, personal
telecommunications or other communications services.
COLLOCATION: The use of the same tower or structure to carry two (2) or more
antennas for the provision of radio, television, cellular, paging, personal
telecommunications or other communications services.
GUYED TOWER: Any tower that is supported by the use of guywires or cables that
are permanently anchored to the ground.
HEIGHT: The distance measured between the ground level at the base of any WCF
or component thereof and the tallest point thereon.
LATTICE TOWER: Any tower that utilizes an open framework of lateral cross
members to stabilize the tower.
MAST: Any vertical element such as a tube or rod that supports an antenna.
MONOPOLE TOWER: Any tower consisting of a single upright pole designed and
engineered to be self-supporting and that does not use guywires, cables or any
form of lattice or lateral cross members for support or stability.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Communications services consisting of commercial
mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, or common carrier wireless
exchange access services.
STEALTH DESIGN: The process of locating and constructing a WCF (including its
antennas and towers and ancillary structures) in such a manner as to
camouflage, conceal or disguise the WCF or otherwise render the WCF
unrecognizable as a WCF.
TOWER: Any vertical structure intended primarily for supporting any antenna or
mast for use in connection with the provision of radio, television, cellular,
paging, personal telecommunications or other communications services.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF): An unstaffed facility used for
transmitting or receiving waves or signals for radio, television, cellular,
paging, personal wireless, personal telecommunications or other communications
services, including antennas, towers, support structures other than towers, and
ancillary buildings. (Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   (A)   Equipment: Mobile or immobile equipment of any kind not actively or
continuously being used in the operation, maintenance, repair or upkeep of a
WCF shall not be stored, parked or kept on any site where a WCF is located.
Backup generators shall only be utilized during actual power outages, and for
testing and maintenance purposes. Testing and maintenance of generators shall
only occur on weekdays between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   (B)   Lighting: No signals or lights or illumination shall be permitted on a
WCF unless required by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Federal
Aviaton Administration (FAA), or by Village ordinances. If lighting is
required, a lighting plan must also be submitted to the Village depicting the
effect of light emanating therefrom on all residential dwellings located within
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the WCF.
   (C)   Signs: Except as otherwise required or permitted by the FCC, no WCF
shall be used or serve as a sign or bear any advertising emblem or logo other
than the name of the owner or operator of the WCF, its address and emergency
contact information, and such signage shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
   (D)   Aesthetics:   WCFs and the component portions thereof shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Towers shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA,
maintain a galvanized metal finish or shall be painted a neutral color that
minimizes contrast with the surrounding environment so as to reduce visual
obtrusiveness.
      2.   At a WCF site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the fullest extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening, and landscaping that will blend them into the natural settings and
surrounding buildings.
      3.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      4.   Any tower constructed after the adoption of this chapter shall
utilize a monopole design.
   (E)   Location: The following types of locations for WCFs are listed below
in order of their desirability for constructing a proposed WCF:
      1.   Collocation on an existing WCF;
      2.   On an existing structure utilizing stealth design;
      3.   On an existing structure of sufficient height not requiring the
construction of a new or additional tower;
      4.   On property owned by a unit of government;
      5.   On nonresidentially zoned property;
      6.   On residentially zoned property not presently used for residential
purposes;
      7.   On residentially zoned property used for residential purposes
consisting of more than two (2) acres.
   (F)   Setbacks: No portion of any WCF shall be located less than thirty feet
(30') from any lot line. No tower located in any zoning district shall be
closer to any lot line than that distance equal to the height of the tower.
   (G)   Height: No tower constructed in any nonresidential zoning district
shall exceed one hundred fifty feet (150') in height. No portion of any WCF in
any residential zoning district shall exceed seventy five feet (75') in height.
All future modifications of existing towers or WCFs shall comply with the
foregoing requirements. No collocation or location of any WCF in or on an
existing structure shall increase the height thereof by more than fifteen feet
(15').
   (H)   Cessation Of Use: Upon discontinuance or cessation of use of the WCF,
the facility shall be removed, first by the owner of the WCF, and secondly by
the entities that may be collocated on the facility. It is to be encouraged
that all contracts for lease of property for the use of a WCF contain a
provision requiring the WCF owner to remove the WCF at cessation of use. If
there is no viable entity with means to remove the WCF due to bankruptcy,
dissolution or the like, the obligation to remove the WCF shall become that of
the owner of the land upon which the WCF is located. Upon removal, efforts
shall be made to restore the land used by the WCF to either its pre-WCF
condition or to be compatible with the then current condition of the
surrounding land. If the removal is not performed in a timely manner, the
Village may remove the WCF, restore the land, and assess the cost of removal
and restoration to the owner of the WCF, any collocated carriers, or the owner
of the land upon which the WCF is situated. By virtue of applying for a permit
for a WCF, the owner of the WCF consents to pay for all reasonable removal and
restoration charges that may be incurred by the Village, but that does not
eliminate the landowner's obligations if collection from the owner of the WCF
is impracticable or impossible. (Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3,
9-18-2017)
9-18-6: SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION SUBMITTAL AND PROCESS:
   (A)   Permit Required: No WCF (or any other structure or facility intended
primarily to serve or function as a component of a WCF) shall be established,
constructed, maintained, altered, reconstructed or operated within the Village
without first obtaining a special use permit in accordance with the applicable
requirements of this chapter, and in accordance with all other applicable
special use permit requirements established under this title, provided,
however, that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
chapter and the provisions of any permit for a WCF, the provisions of this
chapter and the provisions of any other portion of this title concerning the
application process for a special use permit for a WCF, the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed controlling. No application for a WCF special use
permit shall be deemed to have been submitted to the Village unless and until
all submittal requirements established by this chapter have been satisfied.
Applicants are strongly encouraged to schedule a preapplication conference with
Village staff to review the requirements of this chapter and to assist in
facilitating the expeditious preparation and review of the application.
   (B)   Application Submittal Requirements: All applications for special use
permits to establish, construct, operate or maintain a WCF within the Village
shall be accompanied by the following documentation, and shall be made on such
form as the Village shall adopt from time to time:
      1.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and height
of the proposed WCF, on site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and
zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), Comprehensive Plan
classification of the site and all adjoining, adjacent roadways, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of the proposed
tower and any other structures, topography, parking, and other information
deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be necessary to assess compliance with
this chapter.
      2.   Written "technical" evidence attesting to the fact that in order to
satisfy its function in the applicant's telecommunications system or network,
the proposed tower, antenna and/or related equipment must be located at the
proposed site and that it cannot be installed or "collocated" on another
person's tower or usable alternative support structure or building located
within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the proposed tower site.
      3.   Written "technical" evidence attesting to the fact the proposed
height of the tower, antenna and/or related equipment is the minimum height
necessary to fulfill its function in the applicant's telecommunications system
or network.
      4.   A written statement attesting to the fact that the applicant has
made diligent, but unsuccessful, efforts to obtain permission to install or
"collocate" the applicant's telecommunications antenna and/or related equipment
on existing towers or potentially usable alternative support structures or
buildings, which are at least seventy five percent (75%) of the proposed design
height of the tower, located within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the
proposed tower site.
      5.   Copies of all licenses, franchises or permits of any nature or kind
required to lawfully construct and operate the proposed WCF (other than the
special use permit that is the subject of the application).
      6.   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable) and the zoning classification thereof. Such information shall be
provided on a survey prepared by an Illinois licensed surveyor.
      7.   The setback distance between the proposed WCF and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted
residentially zoned properties, as well as from all lot lines of the proposed
WCF site.
      8.   An inventory of all existing WCFs in the Village or WCFs authorized
and/or under construction within the Village.
      9.   The separation distance from other WCFs described in the inventory
of existing sites submitted hereunder shall be shown on an updated site plan or
map. Such map shall also depict the radio frequency range and coverage areas of
all such existing WCFs, with an overlay indicating the radio frequency range
and coverage area of the proposed WCF. The applicant shall also identify the
type of construction of the existing WCFs and the owner/operator of the
existing WCFs, if known.
      10.   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials, and which
demonstrates, at a minimum, full landscape screening of all ancillary buildings
associated with a WCF.
      11.   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination.
      12.   A description of the means by which the applicant will achieve
compliance with this chapter and all applicable Federal, State or local laws.
      13.   An affidavit attesting to the ability of the tower to accommodate
collocation of additional antennas for future users, and a feasibility study
indicating the ability of the proposed WCF to accommodate at least two (2)
additional antenna collocations in the future.
      14.   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network for
the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the Municipality.
      15.   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new WCF.
      16.   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the Village based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
      17.   An affidavit from the applicant attesting to the applicant's
receipt of a copy of this chapter, and that the individual signing the
application on behalf of the applicant has knowledge of the contents of the
application and supporting submittals and the truth and completeness thereof.
If the owner of the site where the WCF is proposed to be located is different
from the applicant, the owner shall also sign a like affidavit as well as the
application form.
      18.   A statement that the proposed WCF shall be maintained in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, all other applicable ordinances of the
Village of Grant Park and with all applicable State and Federal laws, and
consistent with the best practices of the WCF industry as the same shall evolve
from time to time.
      19.   A certification that the proposed WCF will not cause interference
with existing telecommunications devices or services within the Village signed
by an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
      20.   A certification signed by a licensed Illinois professional engineer
stating that the site of the proposed WCF has been reviewed and found to be
geologically and topographically capable of supporting the proposed WCF safely.
Such certification shall be provided in addition to all other engineering plans
and submittals required by Village ordinance for any land development activity.
      21.   A written disclosure of the existence of any agreement in existence
prior to the date of the application that would preclude or have the effect of
precluding the applicant from allowing others to collocate antennas at or on
its WCF.
      22.   With respect to applications involving the construction of a new
WCF, a report detailing all efforts by the applicant to obtain collocation at
or on an existing WCF, to obtain the use of appropriate buildings or structures
within the Village as a location for antennas without the construction of any
new tower, and the location and zoning classification of all other possible WCF
site locations investigated by the applicant. Such report shall in particular
explain the reasons for any departures from the locational preferences
established in section
9-18-5 of this chapter.
      23.   A visual impact study including a depiction of all locations within
the Village from which the WCF may be seen, artist's renderings of the
appearance of the proposed WCF location as it exists at the time of the
application and the proposed appearance of the WCF upon completion of the
constructed WCF.
      24.   A written report indicating whether or not the proposed WCF or any
component thereof will require lighting under any applicable FAA rule or
regulation. If the report indicates that the FAA may require lighting, the
applicant shall also be required to provide written documentation from the FAA
detailing the specific lighting requirements applicable to the proposed WCF,
and the manner in which the applicant intends to comply therewith.
      25.   A written report prepared by an Illinois licensed professional
engineer analyzing the necessity of the proposed height of any tower proposed
to be part of the WCF in order to render adequate service within the corporate
limits of the Village, and shall further demonstrate that the proposed tower
height is the minimum height capable of rendering adequate service.
      26.   The Planning Commission or Village Board may require an applicant
to supplement any information that it considers inadequate or that the
applicant has failed to supply. A conditional use permit may be denied on the
basis that the applicant has not satisfactorily supplied the information
required in this section.
         (C)   Application Review Process:
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed application for a special use permit,
the Village shall schedule a hearing before its Plan Commission upon not more
than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days' notice published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Village. The applicant shall, not
more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the
public hearing, post signage on the site of the proposed WCF indicating the
date, time and place of the public hearing. One sign shall be posted for every
five hundred feet (500') of street frontage of the proposed site, but in no
event shall less than one sign be posted on the property. All such signage
shall be visible from an adjacent public right-of-way. The date of such public
hearing shall be not more than sixty (60) days after the date of the receipt of
the completed special use permit application.
      2.   At or before the public hearing, the applicant shall provide
evidence to the Village that all landowners within one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') of the proposed WCF site have been notified by certified mail,
return receipt requested of the date, time and place of the public hearing not
less than ten (10) days before the date of the public hearing.
      3.   At the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall take sworn
testimony from all persons desiring to speak on the subject of the application.
Upon request of the Village and at the expense of the applicant, the applicant
shall provide a court reporter to transcribe the proceedings at the hearing and
shall thereafter furnish the Village with a transcript of such hearing not more
than five (5) days after the conclusion thereof.
      4.   Within fifteen (15) days from the date of the public hearing, the
Plan Commission shall present its written recommendation to the Village Board
for approval or denial of the special use permit application based upon the
record formed at the public hearing.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after its receipt of the written
recommendation of the Plan Commission regarding the special use permit
application, the Village Board shall place the special use permit application
on its agenda for consideration at one or more public meetings of the Village
Board. Upon request of the Village and at the expense of the applicant, the
applicant shall provide a court reporter to transcribe the proceedings at the
meeting(s) pertinent to the application, and shall thereafter furnish the
Village with a transcript of such meeting(s) not more than five (5) days after
the conclusion thereof. After such consideration, the Village Board shall
render a final written decision on the application not more than sixty (60)
days after its receipt of the written recommendation of the Plan Commission.
Such written decision shall be based upon substantial evidence advanced at the
aforesaid public hearing and public meetings. In no event shall the time
between the Village's receipt of a complete application and the Village Board's
rendering of a written decision on the special use permit application exceed
one hundred eighty (180) days, unless otherwise consented to by the applicant.
      6.   All WCF special use permit applications shall be fully subject to
the applicable professional fee reimbursement ordinances of the Village, as the
same are amended from time to time.
   (D)   Application Review Standards And Criteria: The Plan Commission and
Village Board shall consider the following standards and criteria in
determining whether to recommend or issue a special use permit:
      1.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
      2.   Nature of uses of adjacent and nearby properties;
      3.   Surrounding topography;
      4.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
      5.   Proposed ingress and egress;
      6.   Design of any tower to be part of the WCF, with particular reference
to design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating
visual obtrusiveness and design characteristics relevant to the structural
safety or soundness of any such tower;
      7.   The impact of the WCF on the area within the Village reasonably
affected by the WCF;
      8.   The efforts made by the applicant to investigate alternative sites
for the WCF that would reduce the impact of the WCF on the surrounding area;
      9.   The efforts made by the applicant to pursue collocation or to design
a WCF that does not require the construction of a new tower;
      10.   The effects of the construction of the WCF on the future
development of the Village in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
      11.   The effect of the construction of the WCF on the provision and
availability of telecommunications services within the Village; and
      12.   The effort, if any, made by the applicant to utilize stealth design
in connection with the proposed WCF. (Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-
17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-7: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Applicants seeking a special use permit for a WCF may apply to the
Village for a variance from the provisions of this chapter on such form as may
be prescribed from time to time by the Village. Variance applicants shall be
responsible to provide the Village with all submittals required in connection
with a special use permit application, but one or more required submittals may
be waived upon the determination that the nature of the variance being sought
does not necessitate the consideration of a particular submittal.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all variance applicants shall submit a written
report with the variance application detailing the necessity and rationale for
the requested variance, which report shall at a minimum, refer to the variance
standards and criteria hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   In the review and consideration of variance applications, the
following standards and criteria shall be utilized:
      1.   Whether the variance sought will allow the applicant to employ
collocation or to eliminate the necessity for the construction of a new tower;
      2.   Whether the need for the variance has been created by any act of the
applicant or of the owner of the site of the proposed WCF;
      3.   Whether the conditions supporting the application for the variance
are unique in some way to the applicant and not generally applicable to all
parties proposing to construct or operate WCFs;
      4.   Whether the application for the variance relies exclusively or
predominantly upon a desire to avoid the costs of compliance with this section
or to generate additional revenue from the WCF;
      5.   Whether the application for the variance demonstrates a genuine
hardship in connection with its efforts to comply with this chapter as opposed
to a mere inconvenience;
      6.   Whether the granting of the variance would increase any detrimental
effects of the WCF on the area surrounding the site of the proposed WCF when
compared to compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      7.   Whether and to what extent the applicant has made a good faith
effort to fully comply with all of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 11-05-
02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-8: CERTIFICATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
All towers shall be certified by an engineer to be structurally sound and in
conformance with the requirements of the building codes adopted by the Village
and all other construction standards set forth by Federal and State law. For
new towers, such certification shall be submitted upon completion of
construction of the tower, and every five (5) years thereafter. For existing
towers, certification shall be submitted within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the effective date of these regulations and then every five (5) years
thereafter. The tower owner may be required by the Village to submit more
frequent certifications should there be reason to believe that the structural
and/or electrical integrity of the tower is jeopardized.
The Village or its agents shall have authority to enter onto the property upon
which a tower is located, between the inspections and certifications required
above, to inspect the tower for the purpose of determining whether it complies
with the Village's adopted building codes and all other construction standards
adopted by the Village, and all applicable Federal and State laws. The Village
shall reserve the right to conduct such inspections at any time, upon
reasonable notice to the tower owner. All expenses related to such inspections
by the Village shall be borne by the tower owner. (Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011;
amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-18-9: MAINTENANCE:
Tower owners shall at all times employ ordinary and reasonable care and shall
install and maintain in use nothing less than commonly accepted methods and
devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage,
injuries, or nuisances to the public. Towers, telecommunications antennas and/
or equipment, including wires, cables, fixtures, and other equipment shall be
maintained in substantial compliance with the requirements of all Federal,
State, and local regulations, and in such manner that will not interfere with
the use of other property, and, shall at all times be kept and maintained in
good condition, order, and repair so that the same shall not menace or endanger
the life or property of any person. (Ord. 11-05-02-2, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-9-
17-3, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 19
SCHOOL TRANSITION FEES
SECTION:
9-19-1: Required
9-19-2: Fees
9-19-3: Fund Account
9-19-1: REQUIRED:
The Village of Grant Park requires the payment of a school transition fee or
provisions for same in restrictive covenants as a condition precedent to
approval of subdivision plats and petitions for annexation of any lands within
its jurisdiction. (Ord. 2014-13, 11-17-2014; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-19-2: FEES:
School transition fees shall be paid in accordance with the following:
      SCHOOL FACILITIES TRANSITION FEE-UNIT
      SCHOOL DISTRICT (K-12)
Number Of Bedrooms 2014
Number Of Bedrooms                     2014
Detached single-family dwelling units:  
 4+ bedrooms                          $5,220.00
 3 bedrooms                           4,233.00
 2 bedrooms                           796.00
Attached single-family dwelling units:  
 4+ bedrooms                          2,890.00
 3 bedrooms                           1,575.00
 2 bedrooms                           943.00
Apartments:                             
 4+ bedrooms                          2,160.00
 3 bedrooms                           761.00
 2 bedrooms                           254.00
 
Starting in 2015, the school transition fees shall be increased each year by
the percentage increase in the consumer price index. (Ord. O-4-16-2, 4-4-2016;
amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-18-2017)
9-19-3: FUND ACCOUNT:
The school transition fees are to be collected and deposited into the Village
General Fund into an internal account entitled "school transition fees". All
school transition fees collected shall be paid over to Grant Park Community
Unit School District 6 according to such intergovernmental agreement(s) as are
in effect from time to time. (Ord. 2014-13, 11-17-2014; amd. Ord. O-9-17-3, 9-
18-2017)
      SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   These special ordinances may be on file at the Village Hall.
Ordinance
Number
6-3-85   CATV franchise
12-18-89   An ordinance adopting the 1989 Comprehensive Plan
12-18-89a   An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance of $288,000
sewerage refunding revenue bonds, series 1990, of the Village of Grant Park,
Kankakee County, Illinois, for the purpose of defraying the cost of refunding
outstanding sewerage revenue bonds, series 1985, prescribing the details of
such bonds and providing for the collection, segregation and distribution of
the revenues of the sewerage system of the Village of Grant Park, Illinois
12-18-89b   An ordinance of the Village of Grant Park, Kankakee County,
Illinois, authorizing and directing the execution of an escrow agreement
(sewerage revenue bonds, series 1985)
6-18-90   An ordinance providing for the vacation of a part of an alley
adjacent to lot 11, block 25, C.C. Campbell's First Addition to the Village of
Grant Park, County of Kankakee, State of Illinois
O-2-16-1   An ordinance increasing scavenger service charge rates of the
Village of Grant Park
O-4-16-5   An ordinance addressing the payment of cable television franchise
fees in the Village of Grant Park, Illinois
O-2-17-3   An ordinance addressing the payment of cable television franchise
fees in the Village of Grant Park, Illinois
      
   Village of Grant Park   SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS
   These special resolutions may be on file at the Village Hall.
 
Resolution  
Number
           A resolution authorizing the execution of a memorandum of
R-1-15-1   understanding between the Village of Grant Park and the Kankakee-
           Iroquois Human Trafficking Task Force
           A resolution authorizing the Village of Grant Park to participate in
R-1-15-2   the State of Illinois-United States Department of Defense LESO
           Program
           A resolution authorizing the execution of a law enforcement mutual
R-2-15-1   aid agreement and the existence and formation of the Illinois law
           enforcement alarm system by intergovernmental cooperation
           A resolution establishing an annual 3% cost of living increase to
R-8-15-1   sewer base user charge rates and user charge rates of the Village of
           Grant Park
R-9-16-1   A resolution of support and commitment of local funds
 
CHAPTER 20
REGULATION OF AND APPLICATION FOR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-20-1: Purpose And Scope
9-20-2: Conflicts With Other Ordinances
9-20-3: Conflicts With State And Federal Laws
9-20-4: Definitions
9-20-5: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
9-20-6: Collocation Requirements And Conditions
9-20-7: Application Fees
9-20-8: Exceptions To Applicability
9-20-9: Pre-Existing Agreements
9-20-10: Annual Recurring Rate
9-20-11: Abandonment
9-20-12: Dispute Resolution
9-20-13: Indemnification
9-20-14: Insurance
9-20-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations, standards, and
procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside said rights-of-way
on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or industrial use,
in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act, 50 ILCS 835/1, et al.
(Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-2: CONFLICTS WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this chapter supersede all other Ordinances or parts of
Ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, but only to the
extent of such conflict. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-3: CONFLICTS WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS:
In the event that applicable federal or State laws or regulations conflict with
the requirements of this chapter, all wireless providers shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating
federal or State laws or regulations. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
                                 Communications equipment that transmits or
ANTENNA:                         receives electromagnetic radio frequency
                                 signals used in the provision of wireless
                                 services.
                                 Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing,
                                 or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized
APPLICABLE CODES:                national code organization or local amendments
                                 to those codes, including the National
                                 Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT:                       Any wireless provider that submits an
                                 application pursuant to this chapter.
                                 A request submitted by an applicant to the
                                 Village for a permit to collocate small
                                 wireless facilities, including any request
APPLICATION:                     that includes the installation of a new
                                 utility pole for such collocation, as well as
                                 any applicable fee for the review of such
                                 application.
                                 To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION:        or replace wireless facilities on or adjacent
                                 to a wireless support structure or utility
                                 pole.
                                 Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6),
                                 as amended; information service, as defined in
                                 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:          telecommunications service, as defined in 47
                                 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile service, as
                                 defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or
                                 any wireless service other than mobile
                                 service.
                                 A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522
                                 (5), as amended; a provider of information
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as
                                 amended; a telecommunications carrier, as
                                 defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(51), as amended: or a
                                 wireless provider.
FCC:                             The Federal Communications Commission of the
                                 United States.
FEE:                             Any one-time charge.
                                        Any building, property, or site, or
                                        group of buildings, properties, or
                                        sites that are either (i) listed in the
                                        National Register of Historic Places or
                                        formally determined eligible for
                                        listing by the Keeper of the National
                                        Register (that is, the individual who
                                        has been delegated the authority by the
                                        federal agency to list properties and
                                        determine their eligibility for the
                                        National Register, in accordance with
                                        Section VI(D)(1)(a)(i) through Section
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: VI(D)(1)(a)(v) of the Nationwide
                                        Programmatic Agreement codified at 47
                                        CFR Part 1, Appendix C): or (ii)
                                        designated as a locally landmarked
                                        building, property, site, or historic
                                        district by an ordinance adopted by the
                                        Village pursuant to a preservation
                                        program that meets the requirements of
                                        the Certified Local Government Program
                                        of the Illinois State Historic
                                        Preservation Office or where such
                                        certification of the preservation
                                        program by the Illinois State Historic
                                        Preservation Office is pending.
                                        Any federal or State statute, common
LAW:                                    law. code, rule, regulation, order, or
                                        local ordinance or resolution.
                                        Any small wireless facility that is not
                                        larger in dimension than twenty-four
                                        inches (24") in length, fifteen inches
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY:                (15") in width, and twelve inches (12")
                                        in height and that has an exterior
                                        antenna, if any, no longer than eleven
                                        inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE:                 Any utility pole owned or operated by
                                        the Village in public rights-of-way.
                                        Any written authorization required by
PERMIT:                                 the Village to perform an action or
                                        initiate, continue, or complete a
                                        project.
                                        Any individual, corporation, limited
PERSON:                                 liability company, partnership,
                                        association, trust or other entity or
                                        organization.
                                        Any functional division of the federal
                                        government, the government of this
                                        State, any unit of local government of
                                        this State, or any special purpose
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY:                   district located in whole or in part
                                        within this State, that provides or has
                                        authority to provide firefighting,
                                        police, ambulance, medical, or other
                                        emergency services to respond to and
                                        manage emergency incidents.
RATE:                                   Any recurring charge.
 
                         The area on, below, or above any public roadway,
RIGHT-OF-WAY:            highway, street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility
                         easement dedicated for compatible use. Right-of-way
                         does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
                         Any wireless facility that meets both of the following
                         qualifications: (i) every antenna is located inside an
                         enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet in volume
                         or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
                         elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements
                         could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more
                         than six (6) cubic feet; and (ii) all other wireless
                         equipment attached directly to a utility pole
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: associated with the facility is cumulatively no more
                         than twenty-five (25) cubic feet in volume. The
                         following types of associated ancillary equipment are
                         not included in the calculation of equipment volume:
                         electric meter, concealment elements,
                         telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based
                         enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
                         switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
                         the connection of power and other services.
                         Any pole or similar structure that is used in whole or
UTILITY POLE:            in part by a communications service provider or for
                         electric distribution, lighting, traffic control, or a
                         similar function.
                         Any and all equipment at a fixed location that enables
                         wireless communications between user equipment and a
                         communications network, including: (i) equipment
                         associated with wireless communications; and (ii)
                         radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic
                         cables, regular and backup power supplies, and any
                         comparable equipment, regardless of technological
                         configuration. "Wireless facility" further includes
WIRELESS FACILITY:       small wireless facilities. However, "Wireless
                         facility''' does not include: (i) the structure or
                         improvements on, under, or within which the equipment
                         is collocated; (ii) any wireline backhaul facilities
                         or coaxial or fiber optic cables that may be located
                         between any wireless support structures or utility
                         poles; or (iii) any coaxial or fiber optic cables that
                         are otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
                         associated with any antenna.
 
                                  Any person authorized to provide
                                  telecommunications service in the State that
                                  builds or installs wireless communication
                                  transmission equipment, wireless facilities,
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: wireless support structures, or utility poles
                                  and that is not a wireless services provider
                                  but is acting as an agent or a contractor for
                                  a wireless services provider for the
                                  application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER:                Any wireless infrastructure provider or a
                                  wireless services provider.
                                  Any services provided to the general public,
                                  including any particular class of customers,
WIRELESS SERVICES:                and made available on a nondiscriminatory
                                  basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
                                  whether at a fixed location or mobile,
                                  provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER:       Any person who provides wireless services.
                                  Any freestanding structure, such as a
                                  monopole; tower, whether guyed or self-
                                  supporting; billboard; or other existing or
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE:       proposed structure designed to support or
                                  capable of supporting wireless facilities.
                                  "Wireless support structure" does not include
                                  any utility pole. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
 
9-20-5: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   (A)   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
section
9-20-6 (I) (regarding height exceptions or variances) of this Chapter, infra.
However, small wireless facilities shall not be subject to zoning review or
approval if they are (collocated (i) in rights-of-way in any zoning district,
or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or
industrial use.
   (B)   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the Village before collocating any small wireless facility. An application
shall be received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the
following conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989 (225
ILCS 340/4);
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989 (225 ILCS 340/4), for each proposed small wireless facility covered by
the application as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions set out in section
9-20-6  of this chapter, infra, to the best of the applicant's knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the Village fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in intention to
invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy- five (75) days after
the submission of a completed application.
   The permit shall be deemed approved on the later of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed-approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred and
five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
   The permit shall be deemed approved on the later of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   The Village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances, or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions set out in section
9-20-6  of this chapter, infra, require that the utility pole or wireless
support structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall
be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the applicant.
         (f)   The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
Village denies an application.
         (g)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
Village and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after
notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional
application fee. The Village shall approve or deny the revised application
within thirty (30) days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is
deemed approved. Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30)
days of denial shall require the application to submit a new application with
applicable fees, and recommencement of the Village's review period. In
submitting a revised application pursuant to this section, the applicant shall
not make any changes to the application that are not directly related to and
necessary for curing the deficiencies identified by the Village.
         (h)   The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
         (i)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial, unless (1) the cure requires the review of a
new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas,
or other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility, or (2)
the applicant makes any change to the application that is not directly related
to or necessary to cure the deficiencies cited in the denial, which shall be
grounds for the summary denial of the revised application.
         (j)   Within thirty (30) days after an approved permit to collocate a
small wireless facility oh a municipal utility pole, the Village and the
applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided by the
Village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the
application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless
facility on a municipal utility pole, the Village and the applicant shall enter
into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the
Village sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides
the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
         (b)   Any local, State, or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that pauses the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty-five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village
may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole does not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition, or requirement contained in this chapter. If
the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable Village code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due, or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-6: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies:
      1.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      2.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of any
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
      3.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      4.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with any and all abatement and
resolution procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established
by the FCC, including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973, as amended, and 47
CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675, as amended.
      5.   The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the various Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph, or
then successors. Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall
constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Communication Worker Safety Zone: The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of
any electric distribution or transmission system within the communication
worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, If the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole. For
purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space", "communication
worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the meanings given to
those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance With Applicable Codes: The wireless provider shall comply
with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern
public safety.
   (F)   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with all written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in section
9-18-5  of this chapter.
   (G)   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this Collocation
Requirements and Conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pile or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has or can acquire the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms
and conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose
technical limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits, or material cost reasons that cause the alternate location to fail to
satisfy the criteria set out in paragraph.
   (H)   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated. New or
replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      1.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
      2.   Forty-five feet (45') above ground level.
   (I)   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a special use permit as provide for in section
9-14-12  of this title.
   (J)   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with all requirements that are imposed by any contract between the Village and
any owner of private property concerning design or construction standards
   (K)   Ground-mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-
way. The applicant may apply for a special use permit as provide for in section
9-14-12  of this title where such requirements cannot reasonably be followed.
   (L)   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval. The applicant may apply for a
special use permit as provide for in section
9-14-12  of this title where such requirements cannot reasonably be followed.
   (M)   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant. (Ord.
O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-7: APPLICATION FEES:
Application fees are imposed as follows:
   (A)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty
dollars ($650) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility
on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred
fifty dollars ($350) for each small wireless facility addressed in a
consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on
existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with section
9-20-5 (B)(1)(d) of this chapter; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      4.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-8: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party, property owned or controlled by the
Village or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or any privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are. under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   (C)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/18c-7201), Metra Commuter Rail or any
other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in
section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-102), without the
consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any electric or gas public
utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are being used,
developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of subsection (j) of
section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-108.5). For the
purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to that
term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/3-105).
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from
any requirement: (a) to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to
offer cable service or video sendee or (b) to obtain any required permission to
install, place, maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than
small wireless facilities subject to this chapter. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-9: PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS:
   (A)   Existing agreements between the Village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees, and terms that the
Village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two (2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by
notifying the Village that it opts to accept such rates, fees, and terms. Any
existing agreement between such a wireless provider and the Village shall
remain in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-10: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an annual recurring rate for each
small wireless facility collocated on any Village utility- pole located in any
right-of-way that equals (i) two hundred dollars ($200) per year or (ii) the
actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of
space on the Village utility pole. If the Village has not billed the wireless
provider actual and direct costs, the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200)
payable on the first day after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of
the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary
date thereafter. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-11: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall, at its sole cost, remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90)
days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment. The notice shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, by the Village to the owner at the
last known address of the wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is
not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or
cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for municipal utility poles or through whatever actions are provided
for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery. A
wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new owner/
wireless provider. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-12: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Kankakee County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under this chapter and the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200) per year
per municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution
of the dispute. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-13: INDEMNIFICATION:
Every wireless provider shall, as a condition for the approval of any
application, indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any and all
liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the Village
improvements or rights-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. However, no wireless
provider shall have any obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. In addition, every wireless provider shall,
as a condition for the approval of any application, further waive any claims
that they may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused and based on any theory of
liability.(Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
9-20-14: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   (A)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   (B)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; and
   (C)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage. The
wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility. A wireless provider may self-insure
all or a portion of the insurance coverage and limit requirement required by
the Village. A wireless provider that self-insures is not required, to the
extent of the self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of
additional insureds under this section. A wireless provider that elects to
self-insure shall provide to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the
Village. (Ord. O-8-18-2, 8-20-2018)
SPECIAL ORDINANCES
These special ordinances may be on file at the Village Hall.
Ordinance Number  
Ordinance Number  
6-3-85           CATV franchise
12-18-89         An ordinance adopting the 1989 Comprehensive Plan
                 An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance of
                 $288,000 sewerage refunding revenue bonds, series 1990, of the
                 Village of Grant Park, Kankakee County, Illinois, for the
12-18-89a        purpose of defraying the cost of refunding outstanding
                 sewerage revenue bonds, series 1985, prescribing the details
                 of such bonds and providing for the collection, segregation
                 and distribution of the revenues of the sewerage system of the
                 Village of Grant Park, Illinois
                 An ordinance of the Village of Grant Park, Kankakee County,
12-18-89b        Illinois, authorizing and directing the execution of an escrow
                 agreement (sewerage revenue bonds, series 1985)
                 An ordinance providing for the vacation of a part of an alley
6-18-90          adjacent to lot 11, block 25, C.C. Campbell's First Addition
                 to the Village of Grant Park, County of Kankakee, State of
                 Illinois
O-2-16-1         An ordinance increasing scavenger service charge rates of the
                 Village of Grant Park
O-4-16-5         An ordinance addressing the payment of cable television
                 franchise fees in the Village of Grant Park, Illinois
O-2-17-3         An ordinance addressing the payment of cable television
                 franchise fees in the Village of Grant Park, Illinois
O-9-17-4         An ordinance annexing parcels on Hamilton Drive
O-4-18-2         An ordinance approving an asset purchase agreement and sale of
                 surplus real property and personal property
                 An ordinance granting a special use permit to establish and
O-6-18-1         operate a community solar farm at 13100 E 9000 N Road, in an
                 A-1 Agricultural District
O-9-18-1         A Prevailing Wage Act ordinance
                 An ordinance authorizing Aqua Illinois, Inc., to construct,
O-9-18-2         operate and maintain a water transmission, storage and
                 distribution system, and a wastewater collection, treatment
                 and transmission system
O-1-19-1         An ordinance annexing 12393 East State Route 1-17
O-10-19-1        An Ordinance Authorizing Execution of the Illinois Public
                 Works Aid Network Agreement (IPWMAN)
                 An ordinance imposing a 5% franchise fee upon Aqua Illinois,
O-12-19-2        Inc., for the provision of water and sewer service within the
                 Village of Grant Park, Illinois
                 An ordinance authorizing traffic restrictions, regulations and
O-5-22-2         usage of alleys for the Village of Grant Park, Illinois, in
                 County of Kankakee
 
