GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-12, current through
Ordinance 961, passed 9-9-24, and
State legislation current through Illinois Legislative Service,
2024 Regular Session, Pamphlet No. 2
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 611A
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Grayville City Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS:
   SECTION 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in their entirety.
   SECTION 2.
Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3.
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage
and approved as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 13th
day of
November, 2000.
                     Joe Bisch /s/
                        Mayor
ATTEST:
Linda Keepes /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 628
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF GRAYVILLE:
SECTION 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in their entirety.
SECTION 2.
Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION 3.   
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 28 day
of February, 2002.
                        Joe Bisch /s/
                           Mayor
ATTEST: Linda Keepes /s/
         City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 649
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF GRAYVILLE:
SECTION 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in their entirety.
SECTION 2.
Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION 3.   
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 10 day
of March, 2003.
   Joe Bisch /s/
   Mayor
ATTEST: Linda Keepes /s/
       City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 672
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AN ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE:
   Section 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   Section 2.
Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. 
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 28 day
of November, 2005.
               Joe Bisch /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:    Linda Keepes /s/
         City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 684
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE:
   Section 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   Section 2.
Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. 
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage
and approved as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 9 day
of April, 2007.
               Joe Bisch /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:   Linda Keepes /s/
         City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 765
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE:
   Section 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in their entirety.
   Section 2.
Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. 
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage
and approved as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 13th
day of August, 2012.
               Joe Bisch /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:   Joellen Seil /s/
         City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 828
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this City of Grayville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRAYVILLE:
   Section 1.
That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville as
submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in their entirety.
   Section 2.
Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their adoption and
approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Grayville is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. 
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage
and approved as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Grayville on this 26th
day of September, 2016.
               Joe Bisch /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:   Joellen Seil /s/
         City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Procedure for ordinance passage; effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Organization
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Grayville
shall be designated as the Code of Grayville, Illinois and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The city of Grayville,
Illinois.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Edwards or White County, Illinois.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The time as established by applicable state/federal law shall be the
official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 PROCEDURE FOR ORDINANCE PASSAGE; EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring
action by the City Council may be introduced and sponsored by any member of the
Council and by no other person; provided that the Mayor or the City Attorney
may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the
Council, and any Commissioner may assume sponsorship thereof by introducing the
same and moving for its adoption; otherwise, such matters shall not be
considered by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon its introduction, each ordinance shall be put upon its first
reading, whereupon the Mayor shall first open it up for discussion from the
public, and thereafter for discussion by the City Council. After terminating
the discussion as provided herein, the ordinance may be:
      (1)   Amended by appropriate motion, second, and majority vote of the
City Council; and/or
      (2)   Advanced to a second reading by appropriate motion, second, and
majority vote of the Council.
   (C)   Any ordinance which shall have had its first reading shall be taken up
by the City Council at its next regular meeting, and shall be read the second
time, whereupon the Mayor, after its introduction on second reading, shall open
it up for discussion first from the public and then by the City Council. After
terminating the discussion on second reading as provided herein, the ordinance
may be:
      (1)   Amended by appropriate motion, second and majority vote of the City
Council, and referred to the City Attorney for redrafting; or
      (2)   Passed on second reading, and upon appropriate motion, and second,
and without further discussion or debate from the City Council, the City
Council shall vote on the same.
   (D)   Pursuant to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-13, every
ordinance or resolution appropriating any money, or ordering any street
improvement or sewer, or making or authorizing the making of any contract, or
granting the franchise, right, or license to occupy or use the streets, alleys,
highways, bridges, viaducts, public property, or public places in the
municipality for any purpose, shall remain on file with the municipal clerk for
public inspection, in the form in which it is finally passed, at least one week
before the final passage thereof.
   (E)   Any resolution may be passed at the meeting at which it is introduced.
   (F)   If an ordinance is not advanced to second reading, a motion to kill or
to table the ordinance would be in order, and after an appropriate motion
thereto, second, and majority vote of the City Council, the ordinance would be
deemed to have died or have been tabled.
   (G)   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall
be effective from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 896, passed 10-26-20)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1- 1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-3) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.19 ORGANIZATION.
   The city is a municipal corporation organized pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, §§ 4-1-1 et seq., governed by the Mayor and Commissioners comprising the
City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $750. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CIVIL DEFENSE
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
37.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
38.   CITY POLICY
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Compensation
Statutory reference:
   Commission forms of government, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 4-4-1 et seq.
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council for the City of Grayville, White
and Edwards Counties, Illinois for the fiscal beginning May 1, 2024 shall be
held on the second and fourth Mondays of each month in the City Hall, 119 S.
Middle Street, Grayville, White and Edwards Counties, Illinois, commencing at
7:00 p.m.
   (B)   Public notice of such meetings shall be posted in the City Council
Chambers and in the office of the City Clerk in the City Hall, 122 South Court
Street, Grayville, White County Illinois.
   (C)   From time to time, in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act,
the Grayville City Council may enter into executive session. In such cases, no
disclosure of the matters discussed in executive session shall be allowed,
unless and until they are the subject of announcement, publication, or official
action by or at the direction of the Mayor and City Council. A violation of
this section by any Commissioner, City Officer, or city employee shall be
considered a breach of the violating party’s fiduciary duty to the City of
Grayville. In the event of a violation of this section, any Commissioner,
Officer or employee of the City of Grayville responsible for the improper
disclosure may be subject to discipline, censure, termination, or a report to
the White County State’s Attorney for investigation into possible legal action
under the Illinois Criminal Code or the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (D)   Any Commissioner, City Officer, or Mayor who without cause fails to
regularly attend City Council meetings may be subject to removal from office by
a four-fifths majority vote of the sitting Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 384, passed 5-1-79; Am. Ord 460, passed 5-2-88;
Am. Ord. 546, passed 4-18-94; Am. Ord. 566, passed 5-28-96; Am. Ord. 572,
passed 4-28-97; Am. Ord. 577, passed 4-27-98; Am. Ord. 587, passed 4-26-99; Am.
Ord. 602, passed 4-24-00; Am. Ord. 617, passed 4-9-01; Am. Ord. 630, passed 4-
22-02; Am. Ord. 651B, passed 4-28-03; Am. Ord. 663, passed 4-26-04; Am. Ord.
667, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 674, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 685, passed 4-16-
07; Am. Ord. 706, passed 4-28-08; Am. Ord. 726, passed 4-13-09; Am. Ord. 742,
passed 7-10-10; Am. Ord. 748, passed 4-25-11; Am. Ord. 758, passed 5-14-12; Am.
Ord. 770, passed 4-22-13; Am. Ord. 782, passed 5-12-14; Am. Ord. 800, passed 4-
27-15; Am. Ord. 821, passed 5-9-16; Am. Ord. 841, passed 4-24-17; Am. Ord. 856,
passed 4-23-18; Am. Ord. 871, passed 4-22-19; Am. Ord. 887, passed 5-26-20; Am.
Ord. 914, passed 5-10-21; Am. Ord. 939, passed 5-8-23; Am. Ord. 949, passed 1-
8-24; Am. Ord. 951, passed 5-28-24)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   The Commissioners will be paid $250 each month, plus $125 for each regular
meeting of the Grayville City Council they attend. No compensation will be paid
for special Council meetings, or regular meetings not attended.
(Ord. passed 6-3-46; Am. Ord. 854, passed 3-12-18; Am. Ord. 931, passed 10-24-
22)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Mayor; compensation
   
31.02   Budget Officer
   
31.03   City Administrator
§ 31.01 MAYOR; COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor will be paid $500 each month, plus $250 for each regular meeting
of the Grayville City Council he or she attends. No compensation will be paid
for special Council meetings, or regular meetings the Mayor fails to attend.
(Res. passed 6-3-46; Am. Ord. 854, passed 3-12-18; Am. Ord. 931, passed 10-24-
22)
§ 31.02 BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.1 and §§ ILCS 8-2-
9.2 through 8- 2.9.10, and pursuant thereto, authorizes the Commissioner of
Accounts and Finances, shall appoint a City Budget Officer, upon the terms and
conditions set forth in the Municipal Code.
   (B)   The Budget Officer shall take an oath and post bond as provided in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30, and shall have all of the powers and duties
allowed in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.2, including authority to prepare annual
city budgets.
   (C)   Annual budgets may be revised in the manner described in ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 8-2-9.6, and contingency funds may be set aside to the extent allowed
by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.7.
(Ord. 542, passed 4-26-93)
§ 31.03 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the Office of City
Administrator of the City of Grayville. This office, with its functions, duties
and responsibilities, shall be held by one person known as the City
Administrator. He or she shall be the Administrative Officer of the City of
Grayville.
   (B)   Appointment; term; supervision by Council. The Mayor, by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the City Administrator,
to serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and the Council. He or she shall be under
the supervision of the Council in all matters pertaining to the general
management of the city.
   (C)   Qualifications. The City Administrator shall be a qualified public
administrator, who shall have adequate training and experience in financial
management.
   (D)   Supervisory duties generally. The City Administrator shall have charge
of and supervision over all officers and employees of the city. He or she shall
keep or supervise the keeping of all records, shall oversee the enforcement of
the ordinances, and shall see to the enforcement of all contracts to which the
city is a party. He or she shall keep the Mayor and the City Council informed
at all times concerning the progress of both departmental and general city
affairs. He or she shall, when necessary, make recommendations to the Mayor and
Council for the improving of the operations of the city.
   (E)   Relation to department heads. The City Administrator, under the
supervision of the City Council, shall direct all department heads in the day-
to-day performance of their duties. The department heads shall report to the
Administrative Assistant and shall keep him or her informed at all times of the
status of department operations. The City Administrator shall be responsible
for the management, scheduling, and discipline of all city employees.
   (F)   As purchasing agent and budget officer. The City Administrator shall
be the purchasing agent and budget officer for the city, under the supervision
of the City Council, shall make all purchases for the city. He or she is hereby
authorized to make such purchases as he or she deems necessary for the
operation of the city not to exceed $500. He or she is directed to set up a
central purchasing system in accordance with good established municipal
practices.
   (G)   As personnel officer. The City Administrator shall be personnel
officer of the city. Under the supervision of the City Council, he or she shall
administer personnel policy as established by the Council, and shall from time
to time make recommendations to the Council for the improvement of the city’s
personnel practices.
   (H)   Attendance at Council meetings. The City Administrator shall attend
all City Council meetings, regular and special, and be prepared at all times to
inform the Mayor and Council concerning details of the city’s administration.
   (I)   Fiscal duties. Under the direction of the Mayor and the Council and in
the name of the Mayor, the City Administrator shall:
      (1)   Before the beginning of each fiscal year, and not later than one
month after that date, submit an annual operation budget, a capital program,
and a capital budget to the Council for its consideration and adoption.
      (2)   Prepare or supervise the preparation of monthly reports on the
financial operation of the city.
      (3)   Withhold approval of any spending program of any department office,
division, board or commission if such program would seem to endanger the city’s
financial integrity, or would seem to violate any ordinance or statute.
Whenever such approval is withheld, the City Administrator shall immediately
submit the reasons for his or her actions to the Mayor and Council.
      (4)   Require the heads of all departments, offices, boards, commissions
and other operating agencies to submit estimates to his or her office of the
financial requirements of those agencies for the next ensuing year, for use in
creating the annual budget. The budget shall be submitted by the first day of
April of each year. During the ensuing 30 days, the City Administrator shall
consult with the Mayor, Treasurer, and the various Commissioners on the budget,
and shall hold public hearings on the budget, with agency heads concerned, in
attendance.
   (J)   Reports. The City Administrator shall make periodic reports, with such
recommendations as he or she deems appropriate, to the Mayor and the City
Council concerning the administrative management of all departments, boards,
commissions, and agencies of the city.
(Ord. 955, passed 7-8-24)
CHAPTER 32: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
32.01   Civil defense organization established
   
32.02   Director appointed by Mayor
   
32.03   Functions and duties
   
32.04   Service as mobile support teams
   
32.05   Emergency action
   
32.06   Compensation
   
32.07   Reimbursement by the state
   
32.08   Oath
   
32.09   Office space designated
   
32.10   Board's authority to appropriate for defense
§ 32.01 CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the local Municipal Civil Defense Organization to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action in accordance
with the Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951. This Civil Defense Organization
shall consist of the Director and ten additional members selected by the
Director.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.02 DIRECTOR APPOINTED BY MAYOR.
   (A)   The Director of the Municipal Civil Defense Organization shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council and shall serve
until removed by the same. The Director shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the Civil Defense
Organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor as provided in
the statute.
   (B)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Director, the Mayor, or any person designated by him, shall be and act
as Director until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.03 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Civil Defense Organization shall perform such civil defense
functions within the city as shall be prescribed in and by the State Civil
Defense plan and organization prepared by the Governor, such orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor. In addition, the Civil
Defense Organization shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as
may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi- municipality, entered into as provided by
the Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.04 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAMS.
   All or any members of the Municipal Civil Defense Organization may be
described as members of the Mobile Support Team created by the Director of the
Municipal Civil Defense Organization. Any member of a Mobile Support Team, who
is a municipal employee or officer, while serving on call to duty by the
Governor or the State Director of Civil Defense, shall receive the compensation
and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment
or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the
municipality, while so serving, shall receive from the State reasonable
compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.05 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor declares that a Civil Defense emergency exists, in the event
of an actual enemy attack upon the United States, or the occurrence within the
State of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other
hostile action, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Civil Defense
Organization to cooperate fully with the State Office of Civil Defense or with
the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.06 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Civil Defense Organization, who are paid employees or
officers of the municipality, if called for training by the State Director of
Civil Defense, shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate
of pay as is attached to the position held. Members who are not municipal
members or officers shall receive from such training time such compensation as
may be established by the City Council.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.07 REIMBURSEMENT BY THE STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the State to the municipality for expenses incident to
training members of the Civil Defense Organization as prescribed by the State
Director of Civil Defense. Compensation for services and expenses of members of
a mobile support team, while serving outside the municipality in response to a
call by the Governor or State Director of Civil Defense, as provided by law and
any other reimbursement made by the state incident to Civil Defense activities
as provided by law.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.08 OATH.
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Municipal Civil Defense
Organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Director:
         I,                     , do solemnly swear, or affirm, that I will
support and defend and swear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the
territorial institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign or domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am able to enter, and I do further
swear, or affirm, that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of
a political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
Government of the United States or this State by force or violence, and that,
during such time as I am affiliated with the Municipal Civil Defense
Organization, I will not advocate, nor become a member of any political party
or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.09 OFFICE SPACE DESIGNATED.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in the City Hall, or elsewhere,
as may be provided by the City Council for the Municipal Civil Defense
Organization as its office.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
§ 32.10 BOARD'S AUTHORITY TO APPROPRIATE FOR DEFENSE.
   The City Council may make an appropriation for Civil Defense purposes in the
manner provided by law and may levy, in addition, for Civil Defense purposes
only, a tax of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all
other taxes as provided by the Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951.
(Ord. 178, passed 1-31-57)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Administrative powers and duties
Certain Departments and Boards Designated
   
33.10   Department of Public Affairs
   
33.11   Department of Accounts and Finance
   
33.12   Department of Public Health and Safety
   
33.13   Department of Public Streets and Public Improvement
   
33.14   Department of Public Property
   
33.15   Board of Health
   
33.16   Utility Department
Planning Commission
   
33.30   Purpose
   
33.31   Membership
   
33.32   Term of Office
   
33.33   Procedure
   
33.34   Powers and duties
   
33.35   Land subdivision; official map
   
33.36   Improvements
   
33.37   Expenditures
Supervisory Committees
   
33.45   Police Department
   
33.46   Public Works
   
33.47   City park
   
33.48   Oak Grove Cemetery
Library Board
   
33.55   Composition; appointment of members
   
33.56   Qualification of members
   
33.57   Initial and regular terms of members
   
33.58   Removal of members
   
33.59   Vacancies; compensation
   
33.60   Organization; meetings; authority
   
33.61   Rules and regulations
   
33.62   Annual report to City Council
   
33.63   Supervisory power of City Council
Cross-reference:
   Planning, see
Chapter 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The executive and administrative powers and duties in the city shall
be distributed into and among the five departments as follows:
      (1)   Department of Public Affairs
      (2)   Department of Accounts and Finance
      (3)   Department of Public Health and Safety
      (4)   Department of Streets and Public Improvements.
      (5)   Department of Public Property.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be Commissioner of Public Affairs and as such shall be
superintendent of that department; and the City Council shall at its first
regular meeting on the first Monday in May, of each year, designate by a
majority vote, one commissioner to be Commissioner of Accounts and Finance, who
shall be superintendent of that department; one to be Commissioner of Streets
and Public Improvement, who shall be superintendent of that department, and who
ex officio shall be Commissioner of Public Work, and one to be Commissioner of
Public Property, and as such to be superintendent of that department; but such
designations may be changed by the City Council whenever it appears that the
public service would be benefited thereby.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
CERTAIN DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS DESIGNATED
§ 33.10 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS.
   The Mayor shall as head of this department, sign all commissions, permits,
ordinances, granted by the authority of the City Council, and all other
instruments, to be executed on the part of the City, except as otherwise
provided by law, ordinances or resolution of the Council. The Mayor shall
supervise the general conduct of the City Officers, inquire into all reasonable
complaints made against them and cause all their neglect and violation of
official duty to be promptly corrected or reported to the proper tribunal for
punishment. The Mayor shall advise and assist the several commissioners in
conducting the affairs of their prospective departments, and in the absence or
inability of any of the commissioners to act shall exercise temporary
supervision over the departments assigned to the commissioner. The Mayor shall
have general supervision over the office of City Attorney and shall have charge
of the Police Department, Chief of Police, night patrol, and all other
policemen, and shall cause all ordinances of the city to be enforced.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
§ 33.11 DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCE.
   The Commissioner of Accounts and Finance shall have charge and supervision
over all accounts and records of the city and of all officers and boards who
are required to keep accounts, make reports or records, and shall cause proper
accounts and records to be kept and proper reports to be made, he shall
carefully inspect the accounts of every officer or employee, who receives or
disburses city money. He or she shall cause all license fees, taxes,
assessments, rentals, or other money which may be due the city, to be
collected. He or she shall report to the City Council any failure to make
reports or to pay moneys due to the city, with such recommendation in relation
thereto as he may deem proper. The City Clerk and special collector and the
City Treasurer shall be assigned to the supervision of this department. The
Commissioner of Accounts and Finance shall be authorized to supervise the
purchase of necessary supplies for the use of this department and he or she
shall also be vice-president of the City Council and in the absence of the
Mayor or his/her inability to act shall preside over the City Council and
perform all the usual duties of the Mayor and the head of the Department of
Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
§ 33.12 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   The Commissioner in charge of this department shall have general supervision
of the Board of Health of the city and shall be Chairman of the Board. He shall
cause the enforcement of all ordinances of the Board of Health, shall cause all
quarantine regulations to be enforced. He shall direct the abatement of all
nuisances which are detrimental to health of any other citizen. The
Commissioner in charge of this department shall have the supervision of the
enforcement of the fire limit ordinance and the construction and repair of all
buildings within the fire limit of the city. He shall also have charge of the
construction and maintenance of any building within the city which might be a
menace to the safety of persons or property of another. He shall also have
charge of traffic appliances, railroad crossing protection, gasoline tanks, and
all explosives, safety appliances, fire escapes, and exits of all theaters,
picture shows, and all places where public meetings are held. He shall purchase
all necessary supplies required by his authority.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
§ 33.13 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   The Commissioner in charge of this department shall have general supervision
of the construction and maintenance of repairs of all streets, avenues and
alleys of the city including the paving, sewers, curbing and sidewalks and the
construction of bridges, and the maintenance of drains and sewers. He shall
supervise the work of the superintendent of streets, if any, and employ
necessary labor and purchase necessary materials for the use of the department.
He shall have charge of the enforcement of all ordinances of the city relative
to the protection of the streets and alleys of the city. The Commissioner shall
have charge of the care and protection of all tools, machines, and appliances
used by the superintendent of streets and other laborers in the care of,
construction, and repair of the streets and alleys of the city. The
Commissioner in charge of this department shall also supervise the location of
the Y connections on the line of sanitary sewers and inspect the connection
before the excavations are refilled.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
§ 33.14 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Commissioner in charge of this department shall supervise the Public
Utilities operating within the city, including water, lights, heat, gas,
telephone, and telegraph system; it shall also include the laying of gas and
water pipes, placing poles and wires. He shall also have the supervision of the
City Hall, and Fire Station, and all city buildings, including the water plant.
The offices of City Hall and Fire Station, and all members of the Fire
Department shall be under his supervision. He shall also have charge of all
public parks and city cemeteries, the care and up-keep of the fire appliances
used by the Fire Department. He shall also have charge of the water works
system, and shall supervise the operation of same.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
§ 33.15 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Board of Health of the city shall consist of the Mayor and all the
Commissioners. The City Clerk shall be ex-officio clerk of the Board. Also one
physician shall be appointed as a member of the Board of Health. The
Commissioner of the Department of Health and Safety shall be Chairman of the
Board.
(Ord. 1, passed - - )
§ 33.16 UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   All services rendered by the city are hereby consolidated into a
single department to be known as “Utilities Department.”
   (B)   All employees of the city, with the exception of members of the Police
and Fire Departments and the Library Board, shall be regarded as employees of
the Utilities Department.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall keep records and allocate the time spent by the
several employees of the Utilities Department to the end that the expenses of
operation of each of the services are segregated for audit and bookkeeping
purposes.
   (D)   The City Council from time to time may, if it chooses, designate and
appoint a superintendent of the Utilities Department who, if appointed and
designated, shall be known as the “Superintendent of Utilities.”
   (E)   The Commissioner of each department shall continue to be
superintendent of that department to the end that all the Commissioners will
cooperate in the efficient conduct of the Utilities Department under the
overall supervision of the Mayor.
   (F)   This section is for the purpose of providing for the more efficient
and economical conduct of the business of the city and is adopted pursuant to
the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4- 5-2 reading in part as follows:
         The Council by ordinance . . . (3) may require an officer or employee
to perform duties in 2 or more departments; and (4) may make such rules and
regulations as may be necessary or proper for the efficient and economical
conduct of the municipality.
   (G)   (1)   To assist with the efficient management of municipal operations,
there is hereby established the office of purchasing officer. The purchasing
officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City
Council, with the term of such purchasing officer to end upon the expiration of
the term of the appointing Mayor.
      (2)   Purchases in excess of $50 must be pre-approved by the purchasing
officer and the commissioner of the affected department, prior to procurement.
Purchases under $50 may be made/approved by the Utilities Superintendent and/or
City Clerk, in coordination with the purchasing officer. Emergency purchases
may be made as needed; however, in the event of such emergency purchases, the
purchasing officer must be notified in an expeditious manner of the emergency,
and the item to be purchased. All purchases must be made under the overall
supervision of the Mayor, with the cooperation of the commissioner of the
affected department, and the purchasing officer.
(Ord. 316, passed 10-15-73; Am. Ord. 702, passed 3-24-08)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.30 PURPOSE.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive City Development Plan for the guidance, direction and control of
the growth and development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous
territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits and
not included in any municipality, a Plan Commission is hereby created under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled
“Illinois Municipal Code” (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-12-4 et seq.) approved May
29, 1961 and as amended.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.31 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine members, citizens of the city,
appointed by the Mayor, on the basis of their particular fitness for their duty
on the Plan Commission, and subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.32 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Of the nine members, three shall serve for a period of one year, three for a
period of two years, three for a period of three years. The terms of members
appointed shall expire on the first day of January on the first, second and
third years respectively, thereafter, the terms of the members shall be three
years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. All
members of the Commission shall serve without compensation except that, if the
City Council deems it advisable, they may receive such compensation as may be
fixed from time to time by the City Council and provided for in the
appropriation ordinance.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.33 PROCEDURE.
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Plan Commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter, rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with city ordinances and state laws. The Commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. The Commission shall also file an annual report with the Mayor, and
the City Council, setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.34 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive
development plan for the present and future development plan for the present
and future development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous un-
incorporated territory not more than one and one half miles beyond the
corporate limits of the city and not included in any other municipality. Such
plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which, when adopted shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part
thereof, of the city. Such plan shall be advisory, except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the City Council.
All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice or adoption with the
County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with the
Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for
the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the city and
contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards
of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of
areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein
defined and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the location,
width, course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and
sewage collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted by ordinance.
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the municipality and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive development plan or any part thereof as may be deemed
necessary.
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive development plan.
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts thereof,
to further the making of such improvements, and generally to promote the
realization of the official comprehensive plan.
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding.
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   (H)   To exercise such other powers to the powers granted under authority of
an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled “Illinois
Municipal Code” (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11- 12-5) approved May 29, 1961, and
effective July 1, 1961, and as amended, as may be conferred by the City
Council.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.35 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RE-SUBDIVISION AND THE OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   At any time, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive development plan or one or more separate
geographical or functional parts, and may include all or any part of the
contiguous unincorporated area within one and one half miles from the corporate
limits of the city. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of
adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and
ordinances including the official map with the Municipal Clerk shall be
complied with as provided for by law.
   (B)   No map or plat of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for
record, affecting land within the corporate limits of the city, or within
contiguous territory which is not more than one and one half miles beyond the
corporate limits, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivisions shown thereon provide for standards of design, and standards
governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and basins, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment, in
conformity with the applicable requirements of the chapter including the
official map.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.36 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for its consideration a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a report
necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the City Council.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
§ 33.37 EXPENDITURES.
   The Planning Commission may, at the discretion of the City Council, employ a
paid secretary, or staff, or both whose salaries, wages, and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by adequate appropriation made by the City
Council from the public funds. If the Plan Commission shall deem it advisable
to secure technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the
City Council and appropriations by the City Council therefore.
(Ord. 221, passed 1-21-63)
SUPERVISORY COMMITTEES
§ 33.45 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   A three person committee, consisting of the presiding Mayor and two
Commissioners, shall supervise and assist with the management of the Police
Department. The Chief of the Police Department will report to, and work with
the Police Committee on department management issues. The committee members,
appointed by the Mayor, shall serve for a term of four years, unless the term
is sooner ended by resignation or other cause.
(Res. 590, passed 5-10-99; Am. Res. 052907, passed 5-29-07)
§ 33.46 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   A three person committee, consisting of three Commissioners, shall supervise
and assist with the management of each of the municipal utility departments
making up the Public Works Department. The Utilities Manager will report to,
and work with the Public Works Committee on management and administration
issues in the Water/Sewer, Gas and Street Departments. The committee members,
appointed by the Mayor, shall serve for a term of four years, unless the term
is sooner ended by resignation or other cause.
(Res. 590, passed 5-10-99; Am. Res. 052907, passed 5-29-07)
§ 33.47 CITY PARK.
   A three person committee, consisting of the presiding Mayor and two
Commissioners, shall supervise and assist with the management of activities at
the City Park. The Utilities Manager will report to, and work with the Parks
Committee on department management issues. The committee members appointed by
the Mayor, shall serve for a term of four years, unless the term is sooner
ended by resignation or other cause.
(Res. 590, passed 5-10-99; Am. Res. 052907, passed 5-29-07)
§ 33.48 OAK GROVE CEMETERY.
   A three person committee, consisting of the presiding Mayor and two
Commissioners, shall supervise and assist with the management of activities at
the Oak Grove Cemetery. The Sexton will report to, and work with the Cemetery
Committee on department issues. The committee members appointed by the Mayor,
shall serve for a term of four years, unless the term is sooner ended by
resignation or other cause.
(Res. 052907, passed 5-29-07)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 33.55 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Library Board shall consist of nine members, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.56 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Library Board shall be chosen from the residents of the city,
with proper regard for their fitness for such office. Individuals having a
Grayville address, as established by the area 911 system, although not residing
within the corporate limits, may serve as Library Board members. No more than
one member of the City Council shall at any one time serve as a member of the
Library Board.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.57 INITIAL AND REGULAR TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   Concurrently with the passage of this subchapter, members of the Library
Board will be newly appointed. Three shall be appointed for a term of one year;
three shall be appointed for a term of two years; and three shall be appointed
for a term of three years. Thereafter, there shall annually be appointed to the
Library Board three members for a term of three years.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.58 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Mayor may, with the consent of the City Council, remove any member of
the Library Board for any misconduct or neglect of duty.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.59 VACANCIES; COMPENSATION.
   Vacancies on the Library Board occasioned by removals, resignation, or
otherwise, shall be reported to the Mayor, and filled in like manner as
original appointments. No Library Board member shall receive compensation for
his or her duties, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for the actual and
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of Library Board duties, from
the library fund.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.60 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; AUTHORITY.
   The first action to be taken at the organizational meeting of the new
Library Board appointed pursuant to this subchapter, shall be the election of a
President and Secretary, and such other officers as the Library Board may deem
necessary. The Board members shall determine the time and place of all official
meetings of the Board at which any legal action may be taken, and shall post
notice thereof at the Grayville public library and at Grayville City Hall, at
least 48 hours in advance thereof.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.61 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall act in accordance with the by-laws, rules and
regulations in effect as of the date of appointment of its Board members. The
Library Board may amend such by-laws, rules and regulations for their own
guidance and for the governance of the library, as may be expedient and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter or state law. The Board and
its members shall have the duties set forth in those sections of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes governing Library Board activities. Any Board member,
including its appointed Treasurer, having the authority to expend funds on
behalf of the Grayville library, shall be properly bonded. All checks issued
from the library account or accounts shall be signed by at least two authorized
Board members.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.62 ANNUAL REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The Library Board shall, within 30 days after the expiration of each fiscal
year of the city, make a report of the condition of their trust as of the last
day of the fiscal year, to the City Council. Such report shall be made in
writing and shall be certified to be true by the Secretary or some other
responsible officer of the Board. It shall contain an itemized statement of the
various sums of money received from all sources; an itemized statement of the
objects and purposes for which those sums of money have been expended; a
statement of the number of books, periodicals, and other forms of media
available for use, and the number and character thereof circulated; a statement
of any real and personal property acquired by legacy, purchase, gift or
otherwise; a statement of the character of any extensions of library service
which have been undertaken; a statement of the financial requirements of the
library for the ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the appropriation of the
City Council, and the amount of money, which, in the judgment of the Library
Board will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the next annual tax
levy ordinance; a statement as to any outstanding liabilities, including those
for bonds outstanding or amounts due for judgments, settlements, liability
insurance or for amounts due under a certificate of the Board; and any other
statistics, information and suggestions that may be of interest to the City
Council. If required by statute, a copy of the report shall also be filed at
the same time with the proper state authority.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
§ 33.63 SUPERVISORY POWER OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council retains supervisory power over the operation and
maintenance of the Grayville public library and library building, and, to the
extent allowed by state statute, may by a majority vote set aside any acts of
the Library Board.
(Ord. 759, passed 5-14-12)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   City dispatcher
   
34.03   Requirements for service
   
34.04   Fee for service
   
34.05   Administration
   
34.06   Conflicts of requirements
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Ambulance service by a city-wide vehicle, staffed with qualified and
certified emergency medical technicians, is hereby established.
(Ord. 388, passed 7-16-79)
§ 34.02 CITY DISPATCHER.
   The City Dispatcher shall be the telephone contact point for emergency
medical service during the hours of 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. and during all hours
of city holidays. The City Clerk shall be dispatcher and point of contact for
such emergency service between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on days of
regular city business.
(Ord. 388, passed 7-16-79)
§ 34.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE.
   Service by the emergency vehicle and its staff shall be for emergency
purposes only. An emergency under this chapter shall be defined by ILCS Ch.
210, Act 50, § 4.11. Should any question arise as to whether a requested use of
the vehicle and staff fulfills this requirement, the determination of the staff
member in charge of the emergency vehicle at the time such service is requested
shall be determinative. The duty to make such determination shall be a part of
the official duties of such ranking staff member of the emergency vehicle.
(Ord. 388, passed 7-16-79)
§ 34.04 FEE FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The patient or person, patients or persons, being transported or given
emergency care shall be responsible for fees and costs charged for such
emergency medical or other care. Emergency medical care shall not be refused
any party because of actual or presumed inability to pay all or any part of
such fees or costs. The fees charged shall be due and payable to the city at
City Hall 30 days from the initial date of service.
   (B)   A charge of $40 shall be made for each call by a person living within
the municipal boundaries of the city or $50 per call for a person living
outside the municipal boundaries of city. Such fee shall be charged and payable
if such request is made and if such request remains in force and is not
cancelled prior to the staff arriving at the site or storage of any emergency
vehicle or equipment used by them. A further charge of $.75 per mile, for
persons living within the municipal boundaries of the city and $1.00 per mile
for persons not living within the municipal boundaries of the city, shall be
made for each mile of transportation of any patient to any place of medical or
other care necessitated by their condition or requested by the patient, his or
her doctor, or any other authorized person. In addition to the charges shown
above a cost charge shall be made for all materials and supplies used or
expended on behalf of any patient. After an authorized medical practitioner
determines that the patient may be returned to his or her or their home after
treatment or medical attention and there will be a waiting period for the
emergency medical vehicle of longer twenty minutes, there shall be a charge of
$15 an hour for such waiting period. Should more than one patient be
transported in the emergency medical vehicle or cared for by the emergency
staff in a single trip or instance the charge to each patient shall be 87½% of
the charge which would have been charged such patient according to the rates
given above had such patient been alone on such trip or provided such service.
The fee schedule stated above may be charged at any time by simple majority
vote of the City Council without other amendment to or change in any other part
of this chapter.
   (C)   Each member of the staff of the emergency medical services team,
whether an emergency medical technician-ambulance (EMT-A) or an emergency
medical technician-paramedic (EMT-P) or a registered nurse shall be paid a fee
of $10 for each instance of provision of medical care in which they have any
participation. The payment schedule stated above may be changed at any time by
simple majority vote of the City Council without other amendment to or change
in any other part of this chapter.
   (D)   All fees payable to such emergency medical staff members shall be paid
by the city government out of general funds, after approval by the City Council
member in charge of the emergency vehicle service. The city shall provide and
purchase malpractice insurance coverage having a substantial liability limit
covering all persons qualified and authorized to participate in the provision
of emergency medical care under this chapter. In addition, the city shall save
and hold harmless all such certified and authorized persons from any judgement
or other liability which they may incur or suffer as the result of the
provision of such emergency medical service unless a finding of wanton and
willful misconduct or culpability of a substantially similar form has been made
against such person being held liable.
(Ord. 388, passed 7-16-79)
§ 34.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   A City Council member in charge of the Emergency Vehicle Services Department
shall have cognizance of and shall report to the City Council as a body
relating to emergency medical services rendered under this chapter.
(Ord. 388, passed 7-16-79)
§ 34.06 CONFLICTS OF REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and the general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
this chapter are at variance or in any other way conflict with the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions, or covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher
standards, shall govern.
(Ord. 388, passed 7-16-79)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Social Security
   
35.02   Insurance
   
35.03   Profit sharing plan
   
35.04   Retirement fund; employer paid contributions
   
35.05   Adoption of prevailing rate of wages
   
35.06   Travel, meal and lodging expenses for employees and officers
§ 35.01 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   All municipal employees of the city shall be covered and protected by the
provisions of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act of the United States of
America (Social Security Act) effective January 1, 1955, and the city shall
pay, as the same become due from time to time, its share of taxes due in
connection therewith, commonly known as “Social Security taxes.”
(Ord. 162, passed 3-7-55)
§ 35.02 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The city shall provide life, or group life, health, accident, hospital
and medical insurance, or either or any of the different types of insurance, on
its full-time appointed employees, including the City Clerk, and their
dependents, with such insurance company or companies as the city may from time
to time select. The term “full-time employees” shall be defined as any
employees working regularly 20 hours or more per week.
   (B)   The premium for the insurance shall be paid as follows: ½ by the city
and ½ by the employee, the employee's share of the premium to be withheld by
the city from compensation due the employee.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply and cover only those employees who make
application for such insurance on forms provided by the insurance company and
otherwise qualify under the rules and regulations of the insurance company, and
give consent in writing for the city to withhold his or her share of such
premiums.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-18-72)
§ 35.03 PROFIT SHARING PLAN.
   (A)   The city shall accept and adopt the IDS Prototype Profit Sharing
(Pension) Plan as presented.
   (B)   The City Council is authorized and directed to execute in the name and
on behalf of the city and under its corporate seal such agreement or agreements
as may be necessary for the initiation and continuity of the plan.
   (C)   Such sums of money as may be necessary according to the agreement or
agreements to provide benefits and to meet the expenses incurred in the
administration thereof, shall, from time to time, be paid out of the funds of
the city by its Treasurer, to the order of the Trustee(s).
   (D)   The City Council is authorized, directed and designated as Trustee(s)
under the agreement to administer the plan and the funds entrusted to them
under the agreement for such plan.
   (E)   The officers of the city are authorized and directed to execute in the
name of and on behalf of the city, and under its corporate seal, any amendments
to the Adopting Instrument attached to the IDS Prototype Profit Sharing
(Pension) Plan to meet the requirements of Section 401 (a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, even though such amendments may cause the
plan to no longer be a part of the IDS Prototype Sharing (Pension) Plan.
(Res. 324, passed 5-6-74)
§ 35.04 RETIREMENT FUND; EMPLOYER PAID CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund. (Ord. 349, passed 9-20-76)
   (B)   Employer paid contributions:
      (1)   Employee contributions to the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
shall be paid by the city on behalf of all of the employees enrolled in the
Fund.
      (2)   The payment shall be made by reducing the amount of the gross
earnings payable to employees by the amount of the contributions and making
payment of this amount directly to the Fund.
      (3)   The payment of employee contributions provided shall be effective
for all compensation paid to employees.
(Ord. 418, passed 2-20-84)
§ 35.05 ADOPTION OF PREVAILING RATE OF WAGES.
   (A)   To extent and as required by "An Act Regulating Wages of Laborers,
Mechanics and Other Workers Employed in Any Public Works by the State, County,
City of Any Public Body or Any Political Subdivision or by Anyone Under
Contract for Public Works," approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers mechanics and other
workers engaged in the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of this city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing wage rate of wages for construction work in the White & Edwards
County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois
as of September 2017 a copy of that determination being attached to Ordinance
858 and incorporated herein by reference. The definition of any terms appearing
in this chapter which are also used in aforesaid Act shall be the same as in
said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the City of Grayville to the extent required by
the aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by
any interested party in the main office of this city this determination of such
prevailing rate of wage.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed, or file their names and addresses, requesting
copies of any determination starting the particular rates and the particular
class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of the section
with both the Secretary of State and the Department of Labor of the State of
Illinois.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a copy of the section, and such publication shall
constitute notice that the determination is effective and that this is the
determination of this public body.
(Ord. passed 12-3-45; Am. Ord. 512, passed 8-6-92; Am. Ord. 517, passed 10-5-
92; Am. Ord. 543, passed 6-21-93; Am. Ord. 549, passed 7-5-94; Am. Ord. 561,
passed 6-26-95; Am. Ord. 567, passed 6- 24-96; Am. Ord. 573, passed 6-9-97; Am.
Ord. 579, passed 6-22-98; Am. Ord. 594, passed 7-14-99; Am. Ord. 606, passed 7-
10-00; Am. Ord. 654, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 664, passed 6-14-04; Am. Ord.
669, passed 7-13-05; Am. Ord. 687, passed 6-25-07; Am. Ord. 711, passed 6-9-07;
Am. Ord. 730, passed 6-22-09; Am. Ord. 741, passed 6-14-10; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 6-13-11; Am. Ord. 763, passed 6-11-12; Am. Ord. 775, passed 6-24-13; Am.
Ord. 784, passed 6-23-14; Am. Ord. 802, passed 6-22-15; Am. Ord. 824, passed 6-
13-16; Am. Ord. 845, passed 6-12-17; Am. Ord. 858, passed 6-25-18)
2021 S-10
§ 35.06 TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES FOR EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall only reimburse the following types of travel,
meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the
following maximum allowable amounts:
Category of Expense Maximum
Category of Expense            Maximum
Travel- Auto (privately owned) $0.565 per mile or current IRS mileage rate
Travel - Auto (rental)         100% of cost of least expensive economy rental
Travel - Airplane              100% of best economy class rate**
Travel - Tolls                 100% of tolls along direct route of travel
Travel - Taxi                  100% of taxi fare along direct route of travel
Travel - Parking               100% of best economy option
Lodging                        100% of conference rates or best economy option
                               Union contract per diem for employee; for
                               officers, 100% not to exceed the following:
Meals                          Breakfast - $25.00
                               Lunch - $35.00
                               Dinner - $60.00
 
      (2)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (C)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
city employee or officer shall be authorized unless the "travel, meal, and
lodging expense reimbursement request form", attached to Ordinance 837 and
incorporated herein by reference, has been submitted and approved. All
documents and information submitted with the form shall be subject to
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140 §§ 1 et
seq.).
   (D)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: (1) any officer or
employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations
adopted under division (B); or (2) any member of the corporate authorities of
the city/village may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of
the corporate authorities of the city/village. However, in the event of an
emergency or other extraordinary circumstances, the corporate authorities may
approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set forth above.
   (E)   The city/village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee,
or officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment.
Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are
excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the
purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 837, passed 12-12-16)
CHAPTER 36: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Employment of non-residents
Police Department
   
36.15   Establishment
   
36.16   Appointment of members
   
36.17   Powers and duties
   
36.18   Rules and regulations
   
36.19   Monitoring alarm system receivers
   
36.20   Traveling outside of standard jurisdictional limits for 9-1-1 calls
   
36.21   Part-time police officers
   
36.22   Policies and procedures for the use of auxiliary police officers
Fire Department
   
36.30   Fire protection services outside city limits; rate
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 EMPLOYMENT OF NON-RESIDENTS.
   ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-6 requires that all municipal officers reside
within the municipality unless, upon the adoption of an ordinance in
municipalities having a population of not more than 500,000 authorizing the
employment of policemen and firemen who reside out of the corporate limits of
the municipality. The city is hereby empowered to employ firemen, policemen,
and emergency medical technicians who reside outside the corporate limits of
the city.
(Ord. 367A, passed - - )
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the city which consists of
such members with such rank as may be approved by the Mayor and the City
Council. The Mayor and the City Council may designate a member of the Police
Department as Chief of Police.
(Ord. 367, passed 10-3-77)
§ 36.16 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Police Department shall be appointed and their ranks
established by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 367, passed 10-3-77)
§ 36.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall be responsible to keep the City Jail and
shall have custody of all persons incarcerated therein. The Department shall
keep such records and make such reports concerning its activities as may be
required by statute or by the City Council. The Mayor, or upon designation of a
Chief of Police, then the Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
performance of the Police Department and all persons who are members of the
Police Department shall serve subject to his orders.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to
the enforcement of all the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable
thereto; to the enforcement of all criminal statutes, both local and state; and
to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators
thereof.
   (C)   All members of the Police Department shall perform the duties and have
the powers prescribed to them by any ordinance or resolution of the City
Council or by any law of this state applicable to their office. Each member
shall, before entering upon the duties of his office execute a bond in the sum
of $5,000 to the city with surety and which bond shall be conditioned that the
member of the Police Department will faithfully perform the duties of his
office as a policeman of the city according to the best of his ability, that he
will make prompt payment to the city of all monies received by him and that he
will perform his duties according to the laws and ordinances of the city. Each
bond and the surety therein shall be subject to approval by the Mayor and City
Council.
   (D)   All members of the Police Department shall also, before entering upon
their duties of office, take an oath or affirmation as prescribed by law, which
oath or affirmation, together with the bond required hereunder, shall be filed
with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 367, passed 10-3-77)
§ 36.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor, or the Chief of Police, if a Chief of Police is appointed, may
make and prescribe such rules and regulations for the operation of the Police
Department as he shall deem advisable and such rules, when approved by the City
Council, shall be binding upon the members of the Police Department. Such rules
and regulations may cover the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to
be worn or carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters
necessary or desirable for the efficiency of the department. The rules and
regulations shall, however, be consistent with the ordinances of the city and
the laws of the state.
(Ord. 367, passed 10-3-77)
§ 36.19 MONITORING ALARM SYSTEM RECEIVERS.
   The Police Department will only monitor those alarm system receivers that
are served by Judge Antennae and Alarms, Inc.
(Res. 580, passed 9-14-98)
§ 36.20 TRAVELING OUTSIDE OF STANDARD JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS FOR 9-1-1 CALLS.
   Police officers of the City of Grayville Police Department are authorized,
when deemed necessary to assure the fastest response to enhanced 9-1-
1 emergency calls, to travel outside the standard jurisdictional limits of the
Police Department, to offer emergency assistance, under the control and
guidance of the law enforcement agency responsible for the handling and
disposition of such 9-1-1 emergency calls.
(Res. 582, passed 11-9-98)
§ 36.21 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as they deem necessary. The number of hours a part-time officer may work
shall fall below the number of hours set forth by the collective bargaining
agreement for full-time employees of the city. In the absence of the collective
bargaining agreement, the hours of a part-time officer shall be in accordance
with the City of Grayville Employee Policy and Procedures Manual.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the Police Department, but the number of hours a part-time
officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and General Orders
issued by the Police Department.
(Res. 595, passed 7-12-99; Am. Ord. 761, passed 5-14-12)
§ 36.22 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE USE OF AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular Police
Department. Auxiliary police officers shall not supplement members of the
regular police department of any municipality in the performance of their
assigned and normal duties, except as otherwise provided in ILCS Ch. 50, Act 5,
§ 3.1-30-20.
      (1)   Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the
following duties in a municipality:
         (a)   To aid or direct traffic within the municipality.
         (b)   To aid in control of natural or man-made disasters.
         (c)   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the Chief of
Police.
      (2)   However, when Grayville's full-time and part-time police officers
are unable to perform their normal and regular police duties, the Chief of
Police, with the prior consent of the Mayor, may assign auxiliary police
officers to perform those normal and regular police duties.
      (3)   Identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by members of the regular Police
Department.
      (4)   Auxiliary police officers shall at all times during the performance
of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of
Police. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with the
permission of the Chief of Police, while in uniform, and in the performance of
their duties.
      (5)   Auxiliary police officers for the city shall be appointed as "non-
conservator of the peace" officers. Thus, such auxiliary officers shall lack
the power, unless otherwise authorized by this section: to arrest or cause to
be arrested, with or without process, all persons who break the peace or are
found violating any municipal ordinance or any criminal law of the state; to
commit arrested persons for examination; if necessary, to detain arrested
persons in custody overnight or Sunday in any safe place or until they can be
brought before the proper court; and to exercise all the other powers as
conservators of the peace prescribed by the corporate authorities of this
municipality.
   (B)   Auxiliary police officers, before entering upon any of their duties,
shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police
procedures appropriate for the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under
this code.
   (C)   The training and course of study shall be determined and provided by
the corporate authorities of the municipality employing auxiliary police
officers.
   (D)   The municipal authorities may require that all auxiliary police
officers be residents of the municipality served by them.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners, in adopting this section, acknowledge and
accept the Statement of Policy attached to Ordinance No. 725 and incorporated
by reference herein.
(Ord. 725, passed 5-11-09)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.30 FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The rate for fire protection services provided by the city's Fire Department
outside the city limits shall be $500 per call and shall be billed to the owner
of the property on which services were rendered.
(Ord. 504, passed 10-21-91)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Tax levy
   
37.02   Responsible bidder requirement
Hotel Tax
   
37.20   Definitions
   
37.21   Rates; exception
   
37.22   Books and records
   
37.23   Tax return; payment of tax
   
37.24   Fraudulent returns
   
37.25   Improper reimbursement by hotel operator
   
37.26   Exemptions
Municipal Service Retailers' Tax
   
37.35   Tax imposed
   
37.36   Report required; filing
   
37.37   Payment
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
37.50   Tax imposed
   
37.51   Report required; filing
   
37.52   Payment
   
37.53   Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax
Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
37.60   Scope
   
37.61   Definitions
   
37.62   Notices
   
37.63   Payments
   
37.64   Certain credits and refunds
   
37.65   Audit procedure
   
37.66   Appeal
   
37.67   Hearing
   
37.68   Interest and penalties
   
37.69   Abatement
   
37.70   Installment contracts
   
37.71   Statute of limitations
   
37.72   Voluntary disclosure
 
   
37.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 TAX LEVY.
   That there be and is hereby levied upon all the taxable property within the
corporate limits of the city, subject to taxation, the total sum as specified
in the tax levy ordinance for the specific purposes mentioned in the
appropriation bill and in the respective sums as set forth in the appropriation
bill.
(Ord. 464, passed 9-12-88)
§ 37.02 RESPONSIBLE BIDDER REQUIREMENT.
   Bids for construction contracts (whether for construction of new facilities,
renovation of existing facilities, road or bridge construction projects, or
other public improvements) at costs greater than $10,000 shall only be accepted
from "responsible bidders", meaning a bidder who meets all of the following
applicable criteria, and submits evidence of such compliance:
   (A)   All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in Illinois.
   (B)   Evidence of compliance with:
      (1)   Federal Employer Tax Identification Number or Social Security
Number (for individuals); and
      (2)   Provisions of Section 2000(e) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the United
States Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246 as amended by Executive Order
No. 11375 (known as the Equal Opportunity Employer provisions).
   (C)   Evidence of insurance, indicating the following coverages: general
liability, worker's compensation, completed operations, automobile, hazardous
occupation, product liability, and professional liability.
   (D)   Compliance with all applicable provisions of the Illinois Prevailing
Wage Act, including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement
for those trades as covered in the Act.
   (E)   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training.
(Ord. 715, passed 8-11-08)
HOTEL TAX
§ 37.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Revenue.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90)
§ 37.21 RATES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business of
renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of 5% of the gross
rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding, however, from
gross rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to
permanent residents of that hotel. From the 5% tax collected, 1.5% of the gross
rental receipts shall be repaid to the operator (“the rebate”), for advertising
to promote overnight stays in Grayville. Subject to the provisions of §
37.23(B) and (C) providing for the filing of hotel tax returns on a quarterly
or annual basis, the rebate will be paid to the operator on a monthly basis, in
the following manner:
      (2)   Promptly at the end of each calendar month, each operator shall
deliver to the city a check for the hotel tax generated during the preceding
month, and the city agrees to pay to the operator the monthly rebate not later
than the tenth day of each month with respect to the tax generated at the hotel
during the prior month. All tax payments by the operator shall otherwise be in
accordance with the provisions of §
37.23.
   (B)   No funds received pursuant to this chapter shall be used to advertise
for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business.
   (C)   However, such tax is not imposed upon the privilege of engaging in any
business in interstate commerce or otherwise, which business may not, under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by this state.
   (D)   Persons subject to the tax imposed by this chapter may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability under this chapter by separately stating
such tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any tax imposed by the county or state.
   (E)   If any hotel operator collects an amount (however designated) which
purports to reimburse such operator for hotel operators’ occupation tax
liability measured by receipts which are not subject to hotel operators’
occupation tax, or if any hotel operator, in collecting an amount (however
designated) which purports to reimburse such operator for hotel operators’
occupation tax liability measured by receipts which are subject to tax under
this chapter, collects more from the customer than the operators’ hotel
operators’ occupation tax liability in the transaction is, the customer shall
have a legal right to claim a refund of such amount from such operator.
However, if such amount is not refunded to the customer for any reason, the
hotel operator is liable to pay such amount to the city.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90; Am. Ord. 820, passed 4-25-16)
§ 37.22 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every operator shall keep separate books or records of his or her business
as an operator so as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under this
chapter separately from his or her transactions not taxable hereunder. If any
such operator fails to keep such separate books or records, he or she shall be
liable to tax at the rate designated in §
37.21 (A), upon the entire proceeds from his or her hotel.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90)
§ 37.23 TAX RETURN; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Except as provided hereinafter in this chapter, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, every person engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel during the preceding calendar month, shall
file a return with the city, stating:
      (1)   The name of the operator.
      (2)   His or her residence address and the address of his or her
principal place of business and the address of the principal place of business
(if that is a different address) from which he or she engages in the business
of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel in this city·
      (3)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such
preceding calendar month.
      (4)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent
residents during such preceding calendar month.
      (5)   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts allowed
by this chapter.
      (6)   Gross rental receipts which were received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      (7)   The amount of tax due.
      (8)   The amount of penalty due, if any.
      (9)   Such other reasonable information as the city may require.
   (B)   If the operator's average monthly tax liability to the city does not
exceed $500, the city may authorize its returns to be filed on a quarter annual
basis, with the return for January, February and March of a given year being
due by April 30 of such year; with the return for April, May and June of a
given year being due by July 31 of such year; with the return for July, August
and September of a given year being due by October 31 of such year; and with
the return for October, November and December of a given year being due by
January 31 of the following year.
   (C)   If the operator’s average monthly tax-liability to the city does not
exceed $20, the city may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual basis,
with the return for a given year being due by January 31 of the following year.
Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and substance, shall be
subject to the same requirements as monthly returns. Notwithstanding any other
provision in this chapter concerning the time within which an operator may file
his or her return, in the case of any operator who ceases to engage in a kind
of business which makes him responsible for filing returns under this chapter,
such operator shall file a final return under this chapter with the city not
more than one month after discontinuing such business. Where the same person
has more than one business registered with the city under separate
registrations under this chapter, such person shall not file each return that
is due as a single return covering all such registered businesses, but shall
file separate returns for each such registered business. In his return, the
operator shall determine the value of any consideration other than money
received by him in connection with the renting, leasing or letting of rooms in
the course of his business and he shall include such value in his return. Such
determination shall be subject to review and revision by the city in the manner
hereinafter provided for the correction of returns. Where the operator is a
corporation, the return filed on behalf of such corporation shall be signed by
the president, vice-president, secretary or treasurer, or by the properly
accredited agent of such corporation. The person filing the return herein
provided for shall, at the time of filing such return, pay to the city the
amount of tax herein imposed. The city may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the city on a form
prescribed by the city, within not less than 60 days after receipt of the
notice, an annual information return for the tax year specified in the notice.
Such annual return to the city shall include a statement of gross receipts as
shown by the operator's last state income tax return. If the total receipts of
the business as reported in the state income tax return do not agree with the
gross receipts reported to the city for the same period, the operator shall
attach to his annual information return a schedule showing a reconciliation of
the two amounts and the reason for the difference. The operator's annual
information return to the city shall also disclose payroll information of the
operator's business during the year covered by such return, and any additional
reasonable information which the city deems would be helpful in determining the
accuracy of the monthly, quarterly, or annual tax return by such operator as
hereinabove provided for in this section.
   (D)   If the annual information return required by this Section is not filed
when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable for a penalty equal to 1/
6 of 1% of the tax due from such taxpayer under this chapter during the period
to be covered by the annual return for each month, or fraction of a month,
until such return is filed as required; the penalty to be assessed and
collected in the same manner as any other penalty provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner or highest ranking
manager shall sign the annual return to certify the accuracy of the information
contained therein. Any person who willfully signs the annual return containing
false or inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and punished
accordingly. The annual return form prescribed by the city shall include a
warning that the person signing the return may be liable for perjury.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90; Am. Ord. 883, passed 1-13-20)
§ 37.24 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting hotel
rooms in this city who fails to make a return, or to keep books and records as
required, or who makes a fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any rule
or regulation of the city for the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, or any officer or agent of a corporation engaged in
the business of renting, leasing or letting hotel rooms in this city who signs
a fraudulent return made on behalf of such corporation, shall be subject to the
penalty set forth in §
37.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90)
§ 37.25 IMPROPER REIMBURSEMENT BY HOTEL OPERATOR.
   Any hotel operator who collects or attempts to collect an amount (however
designated) which purports to reimburse such operator for hotel operators'
occupation tax liability measured by receipts which such operator knows are not
subject to hotel operators' occupation tax, or any hotel operator who knowingly
over-collects or attempts to over-collect an amount purporting to reimburse
such operator for hotel operators' occupation tax liability in a transaction
which is subject to the tax that is imposed by this chapter, shall be subject
to the penalty as set forth in §
37.99.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90)
§ 37.26 EXEMPTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel only to permanent residents are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE RETAILERS' TAX
§ 37.35 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this city at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
chapter is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 8-11-1.
(Ord. 165, passed 8-15-55; Am. Ord. 251, passed 7-10-67; Am. Ord. 274, passed
9-8-69)
§ 37.36 REPORT REQUIRED; FILING.
   Every person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
at retail in the city shall file all reports as required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act
120, § 3 to the state Department of Revenue.
§ 37.37 PAYMENT.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 165, passed 8-15-55; Am. Ord. 251, passed 7-10-67; Am. Ord. 274, passed
9-8-69)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 37.50 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by the servicemen either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-
11-5.
(Ord. 213, passed 8-7-61; Am. Ord. 254, passed 7-18-67; Am. Ord. 260, 4-15-68;
Am. Ord. 275, passed 9-8-69)
§ 37.51 REPORT REQUIRED; FILING.
   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file all reports as
required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9 to the state Department of Revenue.
§ 37.52 PAYMENT.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Ord. 213, passed 8-7-61; Am. Ord. 254, passed 7-18-67; Am. Ord. 260, 4-15-68;
Am. Ord. 275, passed 9-8-69)
§ 37.53 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of 3% of
the gross receipts from those sales made in the course of that business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
§ 8-11-23, of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 8-11-23).
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      (2)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 876, passed 9-9-19)
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 37.60 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes,
including hotel/motel tax.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.61 DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words or terms herein shall have meaning ascribed to them as
follows, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act.
   CITY.  The City of Grayville, White and Edwards Counties, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES.  The city's Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The city's Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter and to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE.  Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE.  Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER.  Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.62 NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.63 PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Payment.  Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
   (B)   Late payment.  Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing
required to be made to the city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be
considered late unless it is:
      (1)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.64 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
two years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or
refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.65 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that
is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.66 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45 day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E) Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.67 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
37.66, above, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.68 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest.  The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 5%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties.  If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, and if
the tax ordinance does not otherwise contain late filing or failure to file
penalties, a late filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be
shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of
the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner
provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a
notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to 10% of the total tax due for the applicable
reporting period for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing
or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by
the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.69 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to file penalty, if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.70 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14 day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.71 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year, in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (C) No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
§ 37.72 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent per month, for all periods prior to the
filing of the application, but not more than four years before the date of
filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the
filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the
local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-26-00)
 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §
37.24 shall be subject to a sentence of up to six months in jail, or to a fine
of up to $750, or both.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
37.22 shall be subject to a sentence of up to six months in jail, or to a fine
of up to $750, or both. Each and every day any such person is engaged in
business in violation of §
37.22 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who accepts money that is due to the city under §§
37.20 through
37.26 from a taxpayer for the purpose of acting as the taxpayer's agent to make
the payment to the city, but who fails to remit such payment to the city when
due, shall be subject to a sentence of up to six months in jail, or to a fine
of up to $750, or both. Any such person who purports to make such payment by
issuing or delivering a check or other order upon a real or fictitious
depository for the payment of money, knowing that it will not be paid by the
depository, shall be guilty of a deceptive practice in violation of Section 17-
I of the Criminal Code of 1961, as amended.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
37.25 shall be subject to a sentence of up to six months in jail, or to a fine
of up to $1,000, or both.
(Ord. 478, passed 4-16-90)
CHAPTER 38: CITY POLICY
Section
Freedom of Information Act
   
38.01   Requests for access to records
   
38.02   Retrieval of records
   
38.03   Fees for copies
   
38.04   Appeal
   
38.05   Preparation of directories and catalogs
State Gift Ban Act
   
38.20   Adoption of act
   
38.21   Ethics Officer
   
38.22   State Legislative Ethics Commission; complaints
   
38.23   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act
   
38.24   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act
   
38.25   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Sexual Harassment Prohibited
   
38.35   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
38.36   Definition of sexual harassment
   
38.37   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
38.38   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
38.39   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
38.40   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
Policy for Non-Employees Riding in City Owned Vehicles and Equipment
   
38.50   Non-employees riding in city owned vehicles and equipment
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
§ 38.01 REQUESTS FOR ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The City Clerk is hereby designated as the person to whom all initial
written requests for access to the records of the city are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at the offices of the city at 122 S. Court Street,
Grayville, Illinois, between the hours of 9:00 and 4:30 p.m., Monday through
Friday. In the event that the City Clerk is not available during the times
described above, the Deputy City Clerk is designated as the person to whom such
initial requests are to be made.
(Ord. 585, passed 3-22-99)
§ 38.02 RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS.
   Any records which are the subject of a request under the Freedom of
Information Act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored by the
City Clerk or the Deputy City Clerk, or by an employee of the city acting under
the direction of the Clerk or Deputy Clerk. In no event shall records be
retrieved by the party requesting them or by any person who is not employed by
the city.
(Ord. 585, passed 3-22-99)
§ 38.03 FEES FOR COPIES.
   If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether
certified or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the City Clerk.
The City Clerk shall maintain a written schedule of current fees in the Clerk's
office. The fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the
records, and the cost of certifying copies, if certification is requested. As
of the date of passage of this subchapter, the fees to be assessed for any such
records, if the person requesting the records wishes them to be copied, are as
follows:
   $.20 per page (actual cost) if city employee copies records
   $.25 per certificate (actual cost) if the copies are to be certified
(Ord. 585, passed 3-22-99)
§ 38.04 APPEAL.
   In the event that a request to inspect city records is denied by the City
Clerk or the Deputy City Clerk, the denial may be appealed to the City Mayor.
Such an appeal must be made within 14 days after the requesting party receives
the written notice denying said request; or in the event that the denial is not
by letter, the appeal must be made 14 days after the request is efficiently
denied.
(Ord. 585, passed 3-22-99)
§ 38.05 PREPARATION OF DIRECTORIES AND CATALOGS.
   The City Clerk shall prepare such other directories and catalogs as may be
required from time to time by the Freedom of Information Act.
(Ord. 585, passed 3-22-99)
STATE GIFT BAN ACT
§ 38.20 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) is hereby
adopted by section 83 of the Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, § 83).
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the city.
(Ord. 589, passed 5-10-99)
§ 38.21 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 425, § 35, the Mayor is authorized to appoint an individual to serve as the
"Ethics Officer" of the city. The Ethics Officer's duties shall be as provided
in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, § 35.
(Ord. 589, passed 5-10-99)
§ 38.22 STATE LEGISLATIVE ETHICS COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the Act and this subchapter shall be filed
with the State Legislative Ethics Commission (created by Section 45(a)(6) of
the Act.
(Ord. 589, passed 5-10-99)
§ 38.23 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   Any amendments to the State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.)
that becomes effective after the passage of this subchapter shall be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this subchapter by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
(Ord. 589, passed 5-10-99)
§ 38.24 FUTURE DECLARATION OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this
subchapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court's decision
becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The
subchapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate
authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois
Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) unconstitutional, but upholds the
constitutionality of the reminder of the Act or does not address the remainder
of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by this subchapter shall
remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this subchapter relating
to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without
further action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 589, passed 5-10-99)
§ 38.25 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 5-15 and ILCS Ch. 5, Act.
430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40 of the State officials and Employees Ethics Act,
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in
this section) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the
officers and employees of the city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, § 70- 5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations of
the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then the section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the city.
(Ord. 663, passed - - )
SEXUAL HARASSMENT PROHIBITED
§ 38.35 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the City of Grayville to prohibit
harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal
employee or municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All
municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 851, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 11-12-18)
§ 38.36 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic. "Sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
   (B)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
(Ord. 851, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 11-12-18)
§ 38.37 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a Director of Human Resources, an Ethics
Officer, the City Manager or Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of
the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 851, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 11-12-18)
§ 38.38 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174 § 15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation (see ILCS
Ch. 740, Act 174 § 15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5 § 6-
101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
(Ord. 851, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 11-12-18)
§ 38.39 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 § 5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
(Ord. 851, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 11-12-18)
§ 38.40 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 851, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 11-12-18)
POLICY FOR NON-EMPLOYEES RIDING IN CITY OWNED VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 38.50 NON-EMPLOYEES RIDING IN CITY OWNED VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Parades and special events. For parades and special events (which
includes any event that has been sanctioned and allowed by the City of
Grayville), the following individuals are authorized as passengers in vehicles
or equipment owned by the City of Grayville, Illinois:
      (1)   Elected city officials;
      (2)   Appointed city officials; and
      (3)   The immediate family and/or step-family of city officials and
employees (which shall include the parents, brothers, sisters, spouse or
children of the said city officials and employees).
   (B)   The following individuals are authorized as passengers in vehicles or
equipment owned by the City of Grayville, Illinois during the business day for
the City of Grayville:
      (1)   Vendors;
      (2)   Contractors;
      (3)   Engineers;
      (4)   Elected officials of governmental entities other than the City of
Grayville; and
      (5)   Any duly authorized agent doing authorized work for the City of
Grayville, White and Edwards Counties, Illinois. The above listed authorized
passengers must, at all times, be accompanied by either a city official or city
employee.
   (C)   All drivers and passengers in vehicles or equipment owned by the City
of Grayville, White and Edwards Counties, Illinois must wear seat belts (in
motor vehicles) or wear safety harnesses or safety equipment (in other city
owned equipment). All drivers and passengers in vehicles or equipment owned by
the City of Grayville, White and Edwards Counties, Illinois must obey traffic
laws.
(Ord. 874, passed 7-8-19)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   GAS
      
52.   SEWER USE
      
53.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
54.   WATER WELLS
      
55.   UTILITY SYSTEM HOOK-UP FEES
      
56.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Establishment of garbage and refuse collection and disposal system
   
50.02   Authority of the Board to adopt service charges; rules and regulations
   
50.03   Pick-up and disposal fees
   
50.04   Certain large appliances and dangerous substances ineligible for pick-
up
   
50.05   Billing procedures
   
50.06   Failure of payment; discontinuance of utility service
   
50.07   Preparation for collection
   
50.08   Improper disposal of garbage prohibited
   
50.09   Prima facie evidence of responsibility for violation
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   There is hereby established a garbage and refuse collection and disposal
system for the city, which shall be maintained and operated by the city as a
governmental function in its corporate capacity under the direction of the
Commissioner of Finance.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72)
§ 50.02 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO ADOPT SERVICE CHARGES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall by resolution or ordinance adopt from time to time
such service charges, rules and regulations as it may deem expedient and proper
governing the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse under this chapter.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72)
§ 50.03 PICKUP AND DISPOSAL FEES.
   The city shall finance the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse
hereunder by service charges to be collected from persons, firms and
corporations receiving service. Such service charges shall be established as
can reasonably be expected to yield revenue not in excess of the costs of
operation, maintenance, overhead and an adequate depreciation fund. Until
modified by the Board, the schedule of such charges shall be as follows:
   (A)   City domestic residents (single family homes): $3 per month for one
pickup each week.
   (B)   City domestic residents (apartments): Where occupants of apartment
buildings do not receive individual water billings, the building owners shall
be charged $3 per month per apartment.
   (C)   City business and commercial establishments: $5 for each pickup.
   (D)   Where garbage and refuse collection and disposal service is made
available to domestic residents and to business and commercial establishments
outside the city limits by the Board, the charges for service shall be made at
two times the charges established in divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this
section.
   (E)   Charges for the disposal of large and unusual items not specifically
mentioned as ineligible for pickup in §
50.04 shall be at the discretion of the city; also charges under divisions (C)
and (D) of this section to particular business and commercial establishments
shall be subject to modification by the City Council if volume is excessive.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72; Am. Ord. 382, passed 5-7-79)
§ 50.04 CERTAIN LARGE APPLIANCES AND DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES INELIGIBLE FOR
PICKUP.
   (A)   Refrigerators, stoves, washing machines, dryers, freezers, water
heaters and other similar large appliances and junked vehicles shall not be
picked up by the city and shall not be stored or allowed to accumulate on any
property within the limits of the city.
   (B)   Dangerous substances, including chemicals, radioactive materials and
explosives, shall not be accepted. Acceptance of any questionable material
shall be at the discretion of the person in charge of the landfill site used by
the city.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   The city shall mail bills for the collection and disposal of garbage and
refuse service charges on a monthly basis, and the City Water Department is
hereby directed and authorized to state the amount due for such devices on the
same postcard as the monthly water and sewer bill. In the event that users of
garbage and refuse collection and disposal service do not receive a water and
sewer bill, charges for such service shall be billed in a manner prescribed by
the City Council. Collections for such services shall be kept separate and
apart from water and sewer collections and shall not be regarded as income from
the Water and Sewer Department.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72)
§ 50.06 FAILURE OF PAYMENT; DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   When the occupant of any premises, or the owner of any apartment building
fails or refuses to pay the service charges as provided herein, the City
Council shall notify the occupant or owner of such fact, and shall refuse
further collections and disposal until the required fee is paid. If such
failure and refusal to pay continues for a period of 30 days or more, the city
may, subject to the hearing requirements of §
51.13, cut off all or part of the utilities being furnished by the city to such
party until such charges are paid in full and penalties thereon, if any, are
paid.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72)
§ 50.07 PREPARATION FOR COLLECTION.
   All garbage shall be wrapped in paper and all garbage and refuse for
collection by the city shall be placed in containers having a capacity of not
more than 30 gallons equipped with a cover and handles or in plastic bags tied
securely at the top. All such containers and plastic bags shall be placed at
the street curb, not later than 5:00 a.m. on the day of pickup. The city shall
from time to time notify the parties entitled to such services of the day or
days of pickup.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72)
§ 50.08 IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to dump, burn, or place any garbage, refuse, trash,
ashes, junked appliances or vehicles on any premises within the corporate
limits.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION.
   The fact that garbage, refuse, trash, ashes, junked appliances or vehicles
remain on the premises of any occupant or owner within the city limits in
violation of this chapter, shall be prima facie evidence that the occupant or
owner of such premises is responsible for the violation of the penalty
occurring.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-7-72)
CHAPTER 51: GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Permit required
   
51.02   Application procedures
   
51.03   Duty of City Clerk
   
51.04   Rates
   
51.05   Rate increase
   
51.06   Billing procedures
   
51.07   Estimation of charges due to meter failure
   
51.08   No free service
   
51.09   Tapping charge
   
51.10   Ownership of gas system equipment
   
51.11   Reduction of service
   
51.12   Records
   
51.13   Disconnection for late payment
Prohibitions
   
51.20     Interference with gas system
   
51.21    Obstruction of free access
   
51.22    Unregulated connections prohibited
   
51.23   Use of connection for multiple dwellings prohibited
Suburban Gas Users
   
51.40   Definition
   
51.41   Application for connection
   
51.42   Gas meters provided
   
51.43   Rates
   
51.44   Policy during shortage of supply
   
51.45   Service upon discretion
   
51.46   Right of ingress and egress
Safety Regulations
   
51.55   Unapproved attachments prohibited
   
51.56   Standards; compliance required
   
51.57   Standards of piping
   
51.58   Vents required
   
51.59   Testing
   
51.60   Inspections
   
51.61   Discontinuance of service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall take any gas from any main, pipe, or other part of the
city's Natural Gas System except upon application to the city and issuance by
the city of a permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and no
permit shall be issued for any gas supply or service unless the same is
measured through a meter in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Before any customer will be served with gas by the natural gas system,
such customer shall make an application to the City Clerk for connection to the
gas system and shall accompany his application with his certificate and a
certificate by the person installing the piping and appliance that the piping
and gas appliances or accessories will be or have been installed in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58; Am. Ord. 191A,
passed 9-15-58)
   (B)   Each applicant for gas supply or service shall file with the city an
application in writing, setting forth the name of the applicant, the location
of the premises for which the supply or service is sought, the name of the
owner of the premises, the nature and size of the proposed service and the
proposed use thereof. If the applicant is not the owner of the premises, the
city may require as a condition to the issuance of a permit the written consent
of the owner thereto. The city may require a deposit against future bills for
gas from the applicant if circumstances warrant the same.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application as provided in the division (B) of this
section a permit may be issued by the city for the installation of gas service
and for the supplying of gas in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
but no permit shall be issued to any applicant while he is in default in the
payment of any past due account owing to the city for a gas supply or service
or installation theretofore rendered or made, including the $2 monthly charges,
if any, under §
51.09.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.03 DUTY OF CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall receive applications for gas supply or service and
issue permits therefor as provided herein.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.04 RATES.
   (A)   Gas supplied through meters shall be at the following rates and paid
to the city on or before the tenth day of the month in which due; provided, if
such rates are not paid on or before such date, a penalty of 10% shall be added
thereto and paid by the user:
 
Gas Rates
First 2,000 cubic feet per month       $4 minimum
All over 2,000 cubic feet per month    $1.60 per M.C.F.
 
   (B)   Provided, however, the minimum charge for each user per meter shall be
$4 per month; and provided further that such minimum charge shall be deemed to
be a service charge to the user and shall be charged and collected whether gas
is used or not. If gas is furnished to a user who is not the owner of the
premises where the gas is used, neither the owner nor the property shall be
liable therefor.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58; Am. Ord. 290, passed 12-21-70; Am. Ord. 355, passed
1-27-77; Am. Ord. 379, passed 4-2-79)
§ 51.05 RATE INCREASE.
   The rates provided in §§
51.04 and
51.43 will be increased automatically without further notice to the user in the
event the supplier of gas to the city increases the cost of the gas to the city
and such increase of cost to the user shall be at the same rate plus operating
expenses to the city.
(Ord. 355, passed 1-27-77; Am. Ord. 379, passed 4-2-79)
§ 51.06 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   The charges for gas services rendered during each calendar month shall be
due on the first day of the succeeding calendar month and payable to the city
on or before the tenth day of such succeeding calendar month. In the event of
non-payment of any gas bill or addition thereto as provided herein on or before
the twentieth day of the month in which the same falls due, the gas to such
delinquent consumers shall be shut off, subject to the hearing requirements of
§
51.13. Whenever the gas is shut off from the service to any consumer or
property for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, or because of the
non-payment of any bill for gas or material or labor properly charged to such
consumer, a fee of $2 shall be charged and extended to any delinquent user, or
new user, as the case may be and no gas service shall thereafter be rendered to
a delinquent user until all such bills and claims, including the fee of $2
shall have been paid in full and discharged. All such payments shall be made at
the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.07 ESTIMATION OF CHARGES DUE TO METER FAILURE.
   If a meter at any time fails to register the quantity of gas, the quantity
shall be estimated and then the charge to be made shall be based on the average
quantity registered during the period of time prior to the date of failure
which is reasonable and comparable to the period in which such failure occurs.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.08 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No customer of the gas utility shall receive any free service, of any kind
whatsoever, and further the city, shall pay the regularly established rates and
charges, as provided by this chapter for all gas consumed or used by the city.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.09 TAPPING CHARGE.
   Prior to the completion of the initial construction of the city's Natural
Gas System, the city shall furnish and install to the outer limits of the
structure to be served the necessary service connections, regulator and meter.
If the applicant does not connect with the system and take gas when available,
such applicant shall pay to the city $2 per month for a period of 24 months or
until he connects with the system, whichever period is shorter. After the
initial construction of the system is completed, each applicant for gas service
shall pay the sum of $35 to the city as a tapping charge, and in addition
thereto each applicant shall, at his own cost and expense, furnish all labor
and materials including, but not limited to, all pipes, valves, fittings,
regulators and other appurtenances, but exclusive of the meter which shall be
furnished by and remain the property of the city, which are necessary for the
service connection from the city's main to the applicants premises and
fixtures; such applicant shall furnish and install only such materials as are
approved by the city and the same shall be installed in a good and workmanlike
manner, subject in all things to approval by the city. No applicant shall
receive gas service unless and until his service connection has been approved
by the city.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.10 OWNERSHIP OF GAS SYSTEM EQUIPMENT.
   All meters, pipes, and other equipment which are installed by the city shall
be and remain the property of the city and consumers using the same shall be
responsible for the safekeeping thereof. If any meter, pipe, or other equipment
which is installed by the city shall be damaged or destroyed by
any cause which could have been prevented by the exercising of ordinary care
and caution, then, and in such case the cost of repairing or replacing the same
shall be charged to and paid by the consumer responsible therefor.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58)
§ 51.11 REDUCTION OF SERVICE.
   If at any time and for any reason the volume of gas available for delivery
by the city is not adequate to supply all the demands on the city, the city
shall have the right, upon such notice as is reasonable under the
circumstances, to reduce or discontinue the delivery of gas, first to its
commercial users and finally to its residential users, and such reduction or
discontinuance as the case may be, shall continue as long as such shortage of
supply exists. Notice of reduction or discontinuance of delivery shall be given
to users on a reasonable non-discriminatory basis. Whenever notice is given by
the city to any user to reduce or discontinue his use of gas, such consumer
shall comply therewith until he is notified by the city that such shortage no
longer exists. If any user fails to reduce his use of gas in compliance with
any notice to him so to do, the city may completely discontinue supplying gas
to him while such shortage continues. For the purposes of this section but not
as a limitation thereof, the city's supply of gas shall be deemed to be
inadequate if and to the extent that the total demands on it exceed the city's
contract demand under its contract with its supplier.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 RECORDS.
   It will be the duty of the Gas Department of the city to keep proper records
of all tests of piping for gas installation, and all appliances and all
accessories inspected, including the kind, make, model, serial number and input
rating of all appliances, and the location thereof in the building, and
including the name and address of the owner, occupant, and the person making
the installation.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58)
§ 51.13 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
PROHIBITIONS
§ 51.20 INTERFERENCE WITH GAS SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, replace, tamper with, or
interfere in any manner with any gas main, pipe, meter or other part of the
city's natural gas system without a permit therefor as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.21 OBSTRUCTION OF FREE ACCESS.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct or permit or cause to be obstructed
the free access of any officer or employee of the city to any valve meter,
shut-off box, or connection with any gas main or service pipe by means of any
coal, lumber, brick, building material, or by any other means, shift or devise
whatever, or refuse or prevent free access thereto by such officer or employee
whenever such officer or employee shall desire access thereto in the
performance of his duties. The officers of the city and any and every person
delegated or authorized by the city for such purpose shall have free access to
all and any part of any building, structure, or premises to which gas is
supplied by the city for the purpose of examining the taps, pipes, and fixtures
therein. Gas service may be discontinued by the city as to any premises
regarded by the city as unsafe for gas service.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.22 UNREGULATED CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
    Taps and connections to mains or any part or portion of the city's natural
gas system shall be made only by the city and shall be made in accordance with
such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the city. The
letting of gas to and the turning off of gas from all buildings, structures or
premises and into and from all connections and service shall be under the
exclusive control of the city and no plumber or other person shall let gas to
or from any service or connection for any purpose whatever without permission
therefor.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.23 USE OF CONNECTION FOR MULTIPLE DWELLINGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect gas pipes or conduct gas into any two distinct
premises or tenements unless separate and distinct meters shall be placed and
located for each such premises, nor shall any gas pipe be allowed to cross into
adjoining premises.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-22-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBURBAN GAS USERS
§ 51.40 DEFINITION.
   Applicants for natural gas for use outside the corporate limits of the city
shall be called SUBURBAN GAS USERS and may connect with the natural gas system
of the city by the terms provided in §§
51.41 through
51.46.
(Ord. 189A, passed 9-2-58)
§ 51.41 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   Residents or owners of property outside the corporate limits of the city may
make application to the city to tap on or connect with the city's owned and
operated gas system. Such application shall be accompanied by a tapping fee of
a sum equal to $50 for 50 feet or less of frontage of applicant's property on
the line, plus an additional $1 for each foot of frontage in excess of 50 feet.
(Ord. 263, passed 5-6-68)
§ 51.42 GAS METERS PROVIDED.
   The city shall furnish the meter and the line to the meter. The location of
the meter shall be designated by the city. The applicant shall pay all costs of
the meter setting and of the line and installation of the same from the meter
to a connection or connections on his property.
(Ord. 263, passed 5-6-68)
§ 51.43 RATES.
   (A)   The suburban gas users shall pay such rates for natural gas as the
city from time to time shall determine and such rates shall be known as the
“suburban gas rates.” The suburban gas rates shall be as follows:
 
Suburban Rate Schedule
First 2,000 cubic feet per month       $5.00 minimum
All over 2,000 cubic feet per month    $1.90 per M.C.F.
 
   (B)   Provided, however, the minimum charge for each user per meter shall be
$5 per month; and provided further that such minimum charge shall be deemed to
be a service charge to the user and shall be charged and collected whether gas
is used or not. If gas is furnished to a user who is not the owner of the
premises where the gas is used, neither the owner nor the property shall be
liable therefor.
(Ord. 189A, passed 9-2-58; Am. Ord. 290, passed 12-21-70; Am. Ord. 355, passed
1-27-77; Am. Ord. 379, passed 4-2-79)
§ 51.44 POLICY DURING SHORTAGE OF SUPPLY.
   In the event of an insufficient supply of natural gas for both users within
the city and users outside the corporate limits of the city, the city shall
have the right to disconnect the suburban gas users until the city's supply of
natural gas is sufficient to serve all users, both within and without the city.
(Ord. 189A, passed 9-2-58)
§ 51.45 SERVICE UPON DISCRETION.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed as an obligation on the part of
the city to approve the application or to continue rendering gas service to any
property outside the corporate limits of the city, but such service or
continued service shall be within the sole discretion of the city from time to
time.
(Ord. 189A, passed 9-2-58; Am. Ord. 263, passed 5-6-68)
§ 51.46 RIGHT OF INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   Each suburban gas user shall grant to the city the right of ingress and
egress to their property for the purpose of inspecting service lines and gas
appliances and for the purpose of connecting and disconnecting suburban gas
users from the city's natural gas system.
(Ord. 189A, passed 9-2-58)
SAFETY REGULATIONS
§ 51.55 UNAPPROVED ATTACHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No gas appliances or accessories shall be attached to the Natural Gas System
unless such appliance or accessory has been approved by a national recognized
testing agency of gas appliances and accessories, and carries such approval
plate in a conspicuous place.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.56 STANDARDS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No piping, appliances or accessories shall be installed in connection with
the natural gas system unless the installation complies with the standards
recommended by the American Gas Association in its manual entitled
“Installation of Gas Piping and Gas Appliances in Buildings,” approved November
29, 1954. (Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.57 STANDARDS OF PIPING.
   Notwithstanding the provision of §
51.56, the piping from the gas meter of the Natural Gas System through the
foundation of the building where gas is to be used shall be rigid pipe of not
less than ¾-inch inside diameter. Inside the structure the rigid pipe shall be
increased to not less than one inch inside diameter. The rigid pipe shall be
run to all gas appliances permanently affixed to the structure housing the
same, such as hot water heaters and gas furnaces whether of the basement, floor
or wall type. In the installation of space heaters, clothes dryers and gas
ranges which are ordinarily regarded as personal property rather than something
affixed to the real estate or a permanent part of the building housing the
same, the rigid pipe shall run, either to and be connected with the gas
appliances or, at the option of the owner, within four feet or less of the gas
appliances and then connected to the gas appliances by flexible copper tubing
approved by the American Gas Association. The rigid pipe shall be used not only
through the foundation of the building but also through any floor before any
flexible copper tubing is connected therewith. A cut-off valve should be
installed in the rigid pipe as nearly as practical to each gas appliance so
that gas may be disconnected from each gas appliance separately without
disconnecting the gas from the other gas appliances.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58; Am. Ord. 191A, passed 9-15-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.58 VENTS REQUIRED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
51.56, all gas appliances, including, but not limited to, space heaters,
furnaces and hot water heaters, and excepting gas ranges and clothes dryers,
shall be vented to outside atmosphere to a height at least equal to the top of
highest opening in the building or structure housing the same. No appliance
shall be vented through a flue that is connected to any appliance or accessory
operated by or in which coal is used.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58; Am. Ord. 191A, passed 9-15-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.59 TESTING.
   Before connecting the gas with the premises the city employees will test the
piping with all appliances and accessories turned off. If it is found that the
piping leaks, the customer will be notified to repair the piping or install
proper piping, and thereafter the Gas Department will again test the piping for
leaks. A charge of $1 will be made for the second test or for any other test
that the customer requests after the initial test.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58)
§ 51.60 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Gas Department shall make periodic inspection of all installations
of gas in the city and the appliances and accessories connected therewith,
which inspection shall be made at least once per year. The inspectors shall
check all appliances and accessories with the records of the Gas Department of
appliances and accessories installed and shall inspect all of the installation,
appliances and accessories for safety. However, no liability shall accrue to
the city.
   (B)   If it is found upon inspection that an appliance does not comply with
this chapter or that the same is not properly installed, the customer will be
notified to replace the appliance or to make necessary corrections or repairs,
and thereafter the Gas Department will again test the appliance for compliance
with the notice. A charge of $1 will be made for the second inspection, or for
any other inspection that is necessary after the initial inspection.
   (C)   If gas is shut off from any appliance for any reason before the gas
shall again be used, an inspection shall be requested of the Gas Department and
an inspection by the Gas Department shall be made before the appliance is
used.   
   (D)   Every customer of gas from the Grayville Natural Gas System shall,
before using, changing or replacing of any appliance, request an inspection of
the appliance by the Gas Department of the city, and in each request shall
state the kind, make, model (and serial number if there is one) and input
rating of said appliance.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58)
§ 51.61 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Gas Department shall have the right to shut off gas and discontinue
services at any time in the opinion of the gas inspectors of the city that the
piping or appliances or accessories are unsafe.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-2-58)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Depositing objectionable waste prohibited
   
52.003   Discharging untreated sewage or other polluted water into natural
outlets
   
52.004   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
52.005   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
52.006   Tampering with or damaging sewage works structures or equipment
   
52.007   Extension of sewer mains
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.020   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
52.021   Permit required
   
52.022   Inspection and approval of installation
   
52.023   Compliance with state regulations and agencies
   
52.024   Connection to public sewer required
   
52.025   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
   
52.026   Noninterference with additional requirements
   
52.027   Connection of building sewer to public sewer
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.040   Connection permit required
   
52.041   Compliance with federal, state and local standards
   
52.042   Building sewer permits
   
52.043   Costs and expenses of installation and connection of building sewer;
indemnification
   
52.044   Separate building sewer provided for every building
   
52.045   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
52.046   Size and slope; alignment and laying of building sewer
   
52.047   Building drains; gravity flow to public sewers; approved lifters
   
52.048   Connection of sources of surface runoff or groundwater
   
52.049   Procedures and materials to conform to appropriate specifications
   
52.050   Inspection of connections to public sewer
   
52.051   Excavations; safety precautions
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.060   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
52.061   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
52.062   Discharge of certain wastes restricted
   
52.063   Pretreatment, equalization of waste flows
   
52.064   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.065   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
52.066   Control manhole
   
52.067   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
52.068   Industrial wastes; special agreements
Wastewater User Charges
   
52.080   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
52.081   Measurement of flow
   
52.082   Local capital cost charge
   
52.083   Basic user rate
   
52.084   Surcharge rate; computation
   
52.085   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
52.086   Effective date of rates
Billing and Collection Procedures
   
52.095   Billing procedure
   
52.096   Delinquent bills
   
52.097   Lien; notice of delinquency; foreclosure
   
52.098   Disposition of revenues
   
52.099   Establishment and maintenance of accounting system; annual audit
report
   
52.100   Notice of rates
   
52.101   Access to records
   
52.102   Appeal procedure
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.115   Right of entry for purpose of inspection; indemnification; easements
or private property
   
52.116   Notice of violation; revocation of permit; liability
   
Appendix:      Applications for sewer permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The City Council.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C., expressed In milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, and the like) outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. As defined in any applicable NPDES PERMIT.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 466 et seq.) as amended,
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II-Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if It is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, that is debt service and capital improvement
costs.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day; or
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste; or
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly- owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the Federal Act.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing .17 pounds of BOD and .20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or
combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with wastewater.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970. (ILCS Ch. 30, Act
405, §§ 1 et seq.)
   STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
state of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in this chapter.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.   
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS. The type of user either RESIDENTIAL, INSTITUTIONAL/
GOVERNMENTAL, COMMERCIAL, or INDUSTRIAL, as defined herein.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §
52.085 and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge, the local
capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with waste treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant or
pollution control plant.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. As defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.002 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.003 DISCHARGING UNTREATED SEWAGE OR OTHER POLLUTED WATER INTO NATURAL
OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.004 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.005 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all the houses, building, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer
of the city is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 75 feet (22.5 meters) of the property line.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.006 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING SEWAGE WORKS STRUCTURES OR EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.007 EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS.
   (A)   Determination of who pays expense of extension. The City Council shall
first determine if an extension of a sewer main is economically feasible based
on the estimated cost of the extension and the number of existing potential
users that will be served by the extension. If the extension is economically
feasible then the city may install and pay the cost of the extension at the
discretion of the City Council. If the city elects not to pay the cost of
extending the sewer main, then the person or persons desiring sewer service
shall install the extension at their own personal expense upon written consent
by the City Council. The city shall not pay for any extensions to an
undeveloped area such as a subdivision being developed, unless there are
sufficient existing residents or businesses to make the extension economically
feasible. No sewer extensions may be made without the prior approval of the
city, and if required, the IEPA.
   (B)   Requirements if extension is installed by someone other than the city.
      (1)   The City must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      (2)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      (3)   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title must be conveyed to the city
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the city. The city will
maintain the mains thereafter.
      (4)   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the City
Council, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
Cross-reference:
   Extension to utility systems and services; uniform policy, see §
53.03
§ 51.008 CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Notice to city. Any user requesting a termination of service shall
give written notice to the city ten days before the time such termination of
service is desired.
   (B)   Responsibility for payment of services already consumed.
Responsibility for payment for sewer service before the date of termination
shall be with the property owners as well as the user.
   (C)   Charges for change. There shall be no charge for transferring the
sewer service to the subsequent user.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.020 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.005, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.021 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City Council. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city (see
Appendix to this chapter) which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the City Council. A
permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.022 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF INSTALLATION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City Council.
The City Council shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
City Council when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of written notice by the City Council.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.023 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS AND AGENCIES.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225, §§ 1 et
seq., the state of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and
with the state of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.024 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.005 a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.025 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.026 NONINTERFERENCE WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Mayor or designated
health officer.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.027 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.040 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City Council.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.041 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL STANDARDS.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.042 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   Those for residential wastewater service; and
      (2)   Those for commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
wastewater service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city, (see Appendix to this chapter). The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Council. A permit
and inspection fee of $5 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. The industry,
as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
   (C)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.043 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.044 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVIDED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.045 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the City Council, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.046 SIZE AND SLOPE; ALIGNMENT AND LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.047 BUILDING DRAINS; GRAVITY FLOW TO PUBLIC SEWERS; APPROVED LIFTERS.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
52.041, and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.048 CONNECTION OF SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.049 PROCEDURES AND MATERIALS TO CONFORM TO APPROPRIATE SPECIFICATIONS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the City Council before installation.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.050 INSPECTION OF CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City Council
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the City Council
or its representative.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.051 EXCAVATIONS; SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.060 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the City Council. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the City Council,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.061 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.062 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the City Council that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City Council
will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F. (65° C.).
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° F. (0° and
65° C.).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of ¾ horsepower (0.76 hp
metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Council.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City Council for such materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Council, as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the City Council in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   (I)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at
any time except as permitted by the City Council in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations.
   (J)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted by
the City Council in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
   (K)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
   (L)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.063 PRETREATMENT, EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.062 of this subchapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978 and any amendments thereto,
and which in the judgment of the City Council may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City
Council may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
52.068 of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the City Council permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Board, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.064 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the City Council, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the City Council, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.065 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.066 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the City Council, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Council. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him
so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.067 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (C)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.068 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore, in accordance
with §§ 51.080 through 51.085, by the industrial concern provided such payments
are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for User Charge System.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
WASTEWATER USER CHARGES
§ 52.080 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge
for operation and maintenance plus replacement, applicable surcharges and local
capital cost charge composed of a debt service charge and a capital improvement
charge.
   (B)   The debt service charge is computed as follows:
       (1)   By dividing the annual debt service or all outstanding loans and
bonds by the number of users. Through further divisions, the monthly and/or
quarterly debt service charges can be computed; or
      (2)   By apportioning the annual debt service on a cost per 1,000 gallon
basis; or
      (3)   As a fixed charge plus a charge per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   The capital improvement charge is levied on all users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the sewage treatment
works. The capital improvement is computed by apportioning the annual amount to
be accrued as a cost per 1,000 gallon or as a fixed charge per month.
   (D)   (1)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
         (a)   A five day, 20° C. biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 200 mg/l.
         (b)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
      (2)   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         (b)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         (c)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by
volume, suspended solids and BOD.
         (d)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended solids and
BOD.
         (e)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength.
         (f)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per 1,000 gallons in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (E)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. Section 52.084(B) specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
   (F)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not
less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in
operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs.
   (G)   The users of wastewater treatment services will be notified annually,
in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.081 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
        gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the Public Waterworks
System, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the City Council for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the City Council if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.082 LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE.
   (A)   A debt service charge of $         per          or a debt service
charge of          per 1,000 gallons, to each user of the wastewater facility
of the city is hereby established.
   (B)   A capital improvement charge will be levied on all users as a charge
of $        per 1000 gallons, or a fixed charge of         per month, to
provide funds for extension, improvement or reconstruction of the sewage
treatment works.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.083 BASIC USER RATE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a basic
user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities
of the city as provided in §
53.31.
Cross-reference:
   New rates for sewerage service, see §
53.31
§ 52.084 SURCHARGE RATE; COMPUTATION.
   (A)   Surcharge rate. The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Per pound of BOD:   $.20
      (2)   Per pound of SS:   $.15
   (B)   Computation of surcharge. The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the City Council and
shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.085 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW - CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X) CU + CS
   Where   CW   =   Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period.
         CD      =   Debt Service Charge.
         CC      =   Capital Improvement Charge.
         CM   =   Minimum Charge for Operation, Maintenance and Replacement.
         Vu      =   Wastewater Volume for the billing period.
         X      =    Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge.
         CU      =   Basic User Rate for Operation, Maintenance and
Replacement.
         CS      =   Amount of Surcharge (§
52.084).
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.086 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The rates and service charges established for user charges in §§
52.082 through
52.085 shall be effective as of the next fiscal year beginning              and
on bills to be rendered for the next succeeding month being            for
monthly users and on bills to be rendered for the next succeeding quarter being
            for quarterly users.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES
§ 52.095 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or quarterly
depending on the classification of service for which bills are rendered. The
owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the
service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that
the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the city.
   (B)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the City Treasurer on the
first day of the month or quarter succeeding the period for which the service
is billed.
   (C)   All sewer bills are due and payable 20 days after being sent out. A
penalty of         percent shall added to all bills not paid by the fifteenth
day after they have been rendered.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.096 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   If the charges for such services are not paid within 20 days or 20 days
after the rendition of the bill for such services, as mentioned in §
52.097(C) above, such services shall be discontinued without further notice and
shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.097 LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY; FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Lien; notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for        days
for monthly service or            days for quarterly service after it has been
rendered, the City Treasurer shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the
period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the City Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period 45 days for a monthly bill or 105 days for a
quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the City Treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall
be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in
the name of the city. The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid 45 days in the case of a monthly bill or 105 days in the case
of a quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.098 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the sewerage fund. All
such revenues and moneys shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart
from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city
and all of the sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
City Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such
more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and
City Council.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of the City.” The Treasurer shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the
“Revised Cities and Villages Act,” effective January, 1942.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.099 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTING SYSTEM; ANNUAL AUDIT
REPORT.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year.
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year.
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system.
      (5)   Number of non-metered users.
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.100 NOTICE OF RATES.
   Each user will be notified by the           in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad valorem taxes
which are attributable to wastewater treatment services, including the
financial information of §
52.099.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.101 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The IEPA/USEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the
city's system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to insure
compliance with the terms of the (special and general conditions to any state
grant) (federal regulations and conditions of the federal grant).
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.102 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §§
52.082 through
52.085 shall be made available to a user within        days of receipt of a
written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computations thereof shall be remedied by                within            days
after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.115 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION; INDEMNIFICATION;
EASEMENTS OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Council and other duly authorized employees of the city, the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
City Council or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the City Council or duly authorized employees
of the city, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain conditions as required in §
52.067(A) and (B).
   (C)   The City Council and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
§ 52.116 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REVOCATION OF PERMIT; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
52.006, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reasons of such violation.
(Ord. 519, passed 1-18-93)
APPENDIX: APPLICATIONS FOR SEWER PERMITS
Section
   
1.   Residential building sewer application
   
2.   Private sewage disposal application
   
3.   Commercial, institutional/governmental, and industrial sewer connection
application
§ 1. RESIDENTIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION.
To the City of Grayville:
A.   THE UNDERSIGNED, being the                                 property
located
                  (Owner, Owner's Agent)
at                                                       DOES HEREBY REQUEST a
   Number      Street
permit to install and connect a building to serve the
                               at the location.
                        (Residence)
1.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed
building sewer:
   Number   Fixtures   Number   Fixtures
             Kitchen Sinks              Water Closets
             Lavatories              Bath Tubs
             Laundry Tubs              Showers
             Urinals              Garbage Grinders
Specify other fixtures
                                                                   .
2.   The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures
is                                               
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed
work is
                                                                                                                       .
4.   Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer are attached
hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
B.   In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the City Code of the City of
Grayville, and of all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be
adopted in the future.
2.   To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the city.
3.   To notify the Grayville City Council when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer, but before any portion of the
work is covered.
DATE:                                          SIGNED:
                                          
                        (Applicant)
                                                                                                               
      (Address of Applicant)
                                                                       
(Certification by             Treasurer)
$                                connection fee paid.
$                                inspection fee paid.
Application approved and permit issued:
DATE:                                        SIGNED:
                                              
                     (Approving Authority)
§ 2. PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL APPLICATION.
To the City of Grayville:
A.   THE UNDERSIGNED, being the
                                                            of the property
                     (Owner, Owners Agent)
   located at                                                    .
         Number      Street
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install sanitary sewage disposal facilities to
serve the                                                              at the
location.
(Residence, Commercial Building, etc.)
1.   The proposed facilities include:
                                                                                                                                                                                                     to
be constructed in complete accordance with the plans and specifications
attached hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
2.   The area of the property is             square feet (or             square
meters).
3.   The name and address of the person to be served by the proposed facilities
is:                                                              
4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed facilities is:
                                                                                                                        .
5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water supply
within the 100 feet (30.5 meters) of any boundary of said property are shown on
the plat attached hereunto as Exhibit “B”.
B.   In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work that
shall be requested by the Grayville City Council.
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the City Code, of the City of
Grayville and of all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be
adopted in the future.
3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered by this
application in a sanitary manner at all times, in compliance with all
requirements of the city and at no expense to the city.
4.   To notify the                                    at least 24 hours prior
to commencement of the work
            (Approving Authority)
   proposed, and again at least 24 hours prior to the covering of any
underground portions of the installation.
DATE:                                           SIGNED:
                                                 
                        (Applicant)
                                                                          
         (Address of Applicant)
$                                                  inspection fee paid.
   (Certification by City Treasurer)
Application approved and permit issued:
DATE:                                             SIGNED:
                                                       
                        (Approving Authority)
§ 3. COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL, AND INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION
APPLICATION.
To the City of Grayville:
A.   THE UNDERSIGNED being the
                                                    of the property located    
(Owner, Lessee, Tenant, etc.)
   at DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to                       an industrial sewer
connection
                      (Install, Use)
   serving the                                            which company is
engaged in                        
         (Name of Company)
   at said location.
1.   A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit “B”.
3.   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced
or expected to be produced at the property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge, and
representative analyses, is attached hereunto as Exhibit “C”.
4.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit is
                                                                                                      .
B.   In consideration of the granting of this permit THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use
of the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be adopted in
the future.
2.   To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities, as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the city.
3.   To cooperate at all times with the Grayville City Council, and their
representative in their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial
wastes, and any facilities provided for pretreatment.
4.   To notify the Grayville City Council immediately in event of any accident,
negligence, or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers
of any wastes or process waters not covered by this permit.
DATE:                                                 SIGNED:
                                                    
                        (Address of Applicant)
                                                                                                         
(Address of Applicant)
                                                  
   (Certification by City Treasurer)
$                                       connection fee paid.
$                                       inspection fee paid.
Application approved and permit granted:
DATE:                                              SIGNED:
                                                 
                        (Approving Authority)
CHAPTER 53: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Connection to public water supply; sewer service required
   
53.02   Dedication of street rights-of-way for utility purposes
   
53.03   Extension of utility systems and services; uniform policy
   
53.04   Cross-connection control
Water Meters
   
53.15   Meter requirements
   
53.16   Service and maintenance responsibility
   
53.17   Installation; fees and charges
Rates and Charges
   
53.30   Net rates for water service
   
53.31   Net rates for sewerage service
   
53.32   Seasonal reduction in sewer services rates
   
53.33   Charges for water and gas meters
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY; SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or party or parties in
possession of any house, dwelling, structure, building, factory, industrial or
commercial establishment located on property in the city to cause such building
to be connected with the water service and sewer service systems within 90 days
from the date that water or sewerage facilities become available to such
property. Water service shall be deemed to be available if a main is located in
a street adjoining the property. Sewer service shall be deemed to be available
if a sewer is located in an adjoining street at a level which will permit
gravity flow to the sewer from the natural surface of land.
(Ord. 362, passed 5-16-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 DEDICATION OF STREET RIGHTS-OF-WAY FOR UTILITY PURPOSES.
   All city streets and road rights-of-way are hereby dedicated for utility
purposes, and may be used as reasonably necessary in the installation, repair
and removal of all city utility lines, mains, lift stations, and related
equipment and services within and outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 544, passed 7-6-93)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 53.03 EXTENSION OF UTILITY SYSTEMS AND SERVICES; UNIFORM POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the city to extend and expand the water and sewer
systems, including mains, laterals, pumping and lift stations and related
materials and equipment to provide water and sewer service, when required or as
requested and as funds are available for performance of the work. The
undertaking of such expansion and extension shall be in accordance with the
following policies of the city.
   (A)   The order in which expansion or extension of water and sewer systems
and services are initiated shall be determined by the Mayor and City Council,
giving consideration to the number of users to be benefited, the public health
and safety needs of the area to be served, and the orderly development of the
city and areas adjoining the city outside of the corporate limits. Except as
the Mayor and City Council may otherwise determine as provided herein, projects
for the extension or expansion of water and sewer systems shall be undertaken
in the order in which they are requested by prospective users or recommended by
the Mayor and City Council by resolution.
   (B)   The expansion or extension of the water and sewer systems shall not be
undertaken until such time as sufficient funds are available or can be made
available for completion of the anticipated work.
   (C)   Prior to the initiation or commencement of any expansion or extension
of utility systems and services, the City Council shall make a determination of
the public and private benefit portions of the proposed work. All costs of the
private benefit portions of the expansion or extension project shall be borne
by the prospective users benefiting therefrom.
   (D)   The private benefit portions of any expansion or extension of water
and sewer systems may be recovered by revenue bonds, special assessment,
connection fees, prior written agreement between prospective users and the city
or by such other appropriate arrangements as the law and the statutes of the
state may provide.
   (E)   The city may enter into prior written agreements with prospective
users for the installation of utility systems which provide for financing of
the work by prospective users in whole or in part, the recovery and refunding
of installation costs, the incorporation of appropriate specifications for
performance of the work and the requirements for such payment and performance
bonds as the City Council may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 377, passed 2-19-79)
Cross-reference:
   Extension of sewer mains, see §
52.007
§ 53.04 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the City
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the city public water supply system, the Superintendent of
the city water system will give notice to the city water customer to install
such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her
own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890, Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations of the
city water system, and have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
by the city water system upon installation and as required by the Illinois
Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and city water system
regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the
city, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method
of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the City
Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Superintendent of Water to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other
properties served by the city public water supply to determine whether actual
or potential hazards to the city public water supply may exist. Such surveys
and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be
repeated at least every two years, or as often as the City Superintendent of
Water shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and
available for review for a period of at least five years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the city public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the City
Water Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall, after proper
notification, have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property
served by a connection to the city public water supply or distribution system
of the city for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served by the city shall furnish
to the City Water Superintendent any information which he may request regarding
the piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Water
Superintendent of the city, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The City Water Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the city water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions
of this section is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary
measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the city water supply distribution mains. City water service to such property
shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this section, and until a new reconnect
fee of $500 is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can
be effected when the City Water Superintendent is assured that imminent danger
of harmful contamination of the city public water supply system exists. Such
action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the city water supply,
provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the City Water Superintendent or
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to
prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the city public water
supply. Neither the city, the City Water Superintendent, or its agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this section, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination o f the city potable water
supply system occurs, through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly
installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed,
must bear the cost of clean-up of the city potable water supply system.
(Ord. 655, passed 7-28-03)
WATER METERS
§ 53.15 METER REQUIREMENTS.
   A meter shall be required and installed for each new or additional location
where service is requested. Where the location includes multiple dwellings or
more than one business or activity, a meter is required and shall be installed
for each separate user. For the purposes of this subchapter, persons living
together as a single family or unit shall be considered as a separate user and
each business entity and each activity shall be considered as a separate user.
Where multiple adjoining lots are held in common ownership and the lots have
been served by a single meter setting, if the ownership of the lots is divided
by sale, transfer or otherwise, then the city shall not be required to move the
meter for the prior user. A meter shall be required for each new or additional
service location as provided herein, including any such location established by
prior service users.
(Ord. 362, passed 5-16-77)
§ 53.16 SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city has a water distribution system and shall furnish, install, operate
and maintain a water meter for service. The city shall furnish and install the
meter and connect it to the water system, and it shall be the user's
responsibility to furnish, install, operate and maintain the necessary
materials and equipment to obtain water from the city's water meter and
distribute it to the service location. The city will provide, upon request, the
necessary information in order to make connection to the city's water meter.
(Ord. 362, passed 5-16-77)
§ 53.17 INSTALLATION; FEES AND CHARGES.
   Upon application to the city for water service and upon approval of the
application by the city and after the payment of established connection fees, a
water meter will be installed by the city. Each application shall contain such
information as may be specified by the Water Superintendent to provide proper
guidance in the issuing of the permit, installation of the meter and
responsibility for charges.
   (A)   Location. The placement of each water meter shall be determined by the
Water Superintendent. In general, meters will be located on or as close to the
user's property as possible. However, where there is no water main in a street
adjoining the user's location, the meter will be placed in a location selected
in the discretion of the Water Superintendent as most convenient for the city
and the user. It shall be the user's responsibility to obtain any rights or
easements which may be necessary for the installation of a water line from the
meter to the user's location.
   (B)   Installation fees.
      (1)   The minimum fee for installation of a water meter within the city's
corporate limits shall be $225 and the minimum fee for installation of a water
meter outside of the city's corporate limits shall be $450. The work and
services included in the minimum fee are the use of necessary equipment such as
tractors, backhoes, trenchers or other installation equipment, the water meter,
meter tile, meter lid cover, yoke, valve, corporation cock, elbow connections,
gooseneck and other parts or equipment needed to make a meter setting, up to 30
feet of type K copper tubing or other pipe from the meter to the water main and
the labor and services to install the meter and its parts ready for use. The
minimum fees include the installation of a standard 5/8-inch water meter.
(Ord. 362, passed 5-16-77)
      (2)   Residents or owners of property outside the corporate limits of the
city may make application to the city to tap on or connect with the city's
owned and operated water system. Such application shall be accompanied by a
tapping fee of a sum equal to $50 for 50 feet or less of frontage of
applicant's property on the line, plus an additional $1 for each foot of
frontage in excess of 50 feet.
(Ord. 263, passed 5-6-68)
   (C)   Additional charges. Where service is requested requiring a water meter
larger than the standard 5/8-inch meter, the user shall pay the city's actual
and necessary increased costs for the larger meter, substituted materials, or
additional materials required. Where the meter installation requires more than
30 feet of copper tubing, cast iron or plastic pipe from the main to the meter
location selected by the Water Superintendent the user shall pay the city's
actual and necessary labor, material and overhead costs for the additional
distance required. The materials and supplies necessary to provide greater than
standard service shall be selected within the discretion of the Water
Superintendent. An estimate of additional charges required because of the
user's application will be furnished by the Water Superintendent upon request.
   (D)   Minimum connection fees and estimated costs. Minimum connection fees
and the estimated cost of additional services shall be paid by the user to the
city prior to installation of the meter and connection of water service. All
applications for meter installation and connection must be made by the user
requesting service and by the owner or legal representative of the owner of the
real estate on which the service will be used. The user and the owner shall
each be individually and jointly responsible for the connection fees.
(Ord. 362, passed 5-16-77)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.30 NET RATES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   
 
Residential Water
                       In-city rate/1,000 gal. Out of city rate/1,000 gal.
Minimum: 1,000 gallons $35.45                  $43.16
Rate per 1,000 gallons $6.41                   $9.70
 
   (B)   
 
Commercial and Industrial Water
                       In-city rate/1,000 gal. Out of city rate/1,000 gal.
Minimum: 1,000 gallons $65.45                  $73.16
Rate per 1,000 gallons $6.41                   $9.70
 
   (C)   Bulk water (per 1,000 gallons): $1.70.
   (D)   Beginning on May 1, 2017, and on the first day of May of each year
thereafter, unless otherwise agreed by a majority vote of the City Council, the
city's water rates shall increase by 2% over the previous year's rates.
(Ord. 515, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 819, passed 4-25-16; Am. Ord. 947, passed
12-27-23)
§ 53.31 NET RATES FOR SEWERAGE SERVICE.
   (A)   
 
   In City Rate/ 1,000 ga   Out of City Rate/1,000 gal.
   $5.00                    $7.50
 
   (B)   Beginning on May 1, 2025, and on the first day of May of each year
thereafter, unless otherwise agreed by a majority vote of the City Council, the
city’s sewer rates shall increase by 2% over the previous year’s rates.
(Ord. 515, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 819, passed 4-25-16; Am. Ord. 947, passed
12-27-23)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer use; wastewater user charges, see §§
52.080 through
52.086
§ 53.32 SEASONAL REDUCTION IN SEWER SERVICES RATES.
   (A)   This section is intended to establish a seasonal reduction in the
sewer service rates for residential users only of the sewerage system of the
city and shall be in addition to any connection fees or assessments provided in
this Code of Ordinances, as amended.
   (B)   All residential users who are connected to the city's sewerage system
shall be billed for sewer service at a rate equal to 50% of the permanent rates
now or hereafter in effect for the months of May, June, July, August, and
September of each year, commencing in 2008; but in no event shall a reduction
for any residential user exceed $25 per month.
   (C)   Except as provided in this section, all other rates, rules,
regulations and ordinances pertaining to the use of the city sewerage system
shall remain in full force and effect during the period of seasonal rate
reduction for residential users.
(Ord. 699, passed 1-14-08)
§ 53.33 CHARGES FOR WATER AND GAS METERS.
 
                                    Meter Charges
Water—Residential meter (monthly) $20.00
    Commercial meter (monthly)   $50.00
    (defined as 1" meter or above)
Gas meter (monthly)                 $5.00
 
(Ord. 819, passed 4-25-16)
CHAPTER 54: WATER WELLS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Use of groundwater as potable water supply prohibited
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
(Ord. 632, passed 5-15-02)
§ 54.02 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within
the corporate limits of the city by the installation of drilling of wells of by
any other method is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 632, passed 5-15-02) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine
of up to $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 632, passed 5-15-02)
CHAPTER 55: UTILITY SYSTEM HOOK-UP FEES
Section
   
55.01   Utility deposits
   
55.02   Late fees
   
55.03   Disconnection for non-payment
   
55.04   Reconnect and installation charges
   
55.05   Utility service connection charges
   
55.06   Service charge for returned checks
   
55.07   Theft of services
§ 55.01 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   Deposits for utility hook-ups are required on all rental property, provided
that the account is not in the name of the owner of the property. Deposit fees
are $75 for water/sewer service, and $100 for gas service. Utility deposits are
payable in advance of utility hook-up. After one year of continuous utility
service, the utility customer may have their utility deposits credited to their
utility account, provided that:
   (A)   All utility bills in 12 consecutive months have been paid on time.
   (B)   No penalties have been assessed due to late payment.
   (C)   The customer has not been disconnected for non-payment.
   (D)   The customer has not tampered with or benefitted from tampering with
utility equipment.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 819, passed 4-25-16)
§ 55.02 LATE FEES.
   Utility bills are received by customers on or about the tenth day of each
month, with payment for services due in full on or before the twentieth of each
month. Penalties for late payment are 5% of the total outstanding balance.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08)
§ 55.03 DISCONNECTION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   All utility accounts delinquent after the current billing cycle's due date
will be disconnected for non-payment after proper notice has been given to the
customer. Gas service for residents will not be disconnected if the temperature
is expected to be below 32° Fahrenheit, and is expected to remain below that
temperature for more than 24 hours. Gas service for customers participating in
the LIHEAP program will not be disconnected during the agreement period between
the city and Wabash Area Development, Inc.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08)
§ 55.04 RECONNECT CHARGES AND INSTALLATION CHARGES.
   The fee for reconnection of services after disconnection for non-payment has
been completed, is $50. Reconnection of service will only be done on regular
business days (Monday through Friday) between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 3:30
p.m. Reconnection of service done after hours, on weekends or holidays, will be
subject to a charge of $100. To install a meter, or reinstall a meter after
removal, the charge will be the cost of the meter to the city plus the
applicable labor charge for the time required to install or reinstall, with a
minimum charge of $350 for residential water meters, $600 for one- inch water
meters, and $300 for gas meters.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 819, passed 4-25-16)
§ 55.05 UTILITY SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The fee for connection of any city utility service will be $15 during
regular business days (Monday through Friday) between the hours of 7:30 a.m.
and 3:30 p.m. Utility service connections done after hours, on weekends or
holidays, will be subject to a charge of $100.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 819, passed 4-25-16)
§ 55.06 SERVICE CHARGE FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   The service charge for checks returned to the city is $25.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08)
§ 55.07 THEFT OF SERVICES.
   Utility customers who, without the consent of the city, turn on any utility
service after being shut off for failure to pay, commit the offense of theft of
services. The first offense shall cause the customer to be given a "Notice of
Theft of Services", requiring payment of $100, plus reconnect fees and current
utility account charges. A second offense will result in arrest and criminal
charges being filed. A copy of the "Notice of Theft of Services" is attached
hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-22-08)
CHAPTER 56: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
56.01   Purpose and scope
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Annual registration required
   
56.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
56.05   Action on permit applications
   
56.06   Effect of permit
   
56.07   Revised permit drawings
   
56.08   Insurance
   
56.09   Indemnification
   
56.10   Security
   
56.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
56.12   Change of ownership or owner's identity or legal status
   
56.13   General construction standards
   
56.14   Traffic control
   
56.15   Location of facilities
   
56.16   Construction methods and materials
   
56.17   Vegetation control
   
56.18   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
56.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
56.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
56.21   Variances
   
56.22   Enforcement
 
   
56.99   Penalty
§ 56.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The City of Grayville.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Code of Ordinances of the City of Grayville.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The City Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. Absent appointment of such Director by the City Council, the Director
of Public Works shall be the Mayor.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
City Engineer or Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21- 401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
56.04 and
56.05.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
56.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. Sections 521 and following), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the city through an open video system as defined in the Rules of
the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Means any person that installs, owns, operates
or controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Grayville City Clerk, as agent for the Director
of Public Works, providing the utility's name, address and regular business
telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can
act on behalf of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the
utility's facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone number for
each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in §
56.08, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right-of-way which (1) changes the location of the facility; (2) adds
a new facility; (3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
(4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility
on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way, without first
filing an application with the City Engineer or Director of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
56.08;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
56.10;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
56.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District [other local or state entities with jurisdiction], have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $100. No application fee is required
to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the City Engineer
or Director of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the City Director of Public Works shall
reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the City
Engineer and Director of Public Works are satisfied that the proposed work
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes,
laws, rules, and regulations, the City Director of Public Works shall issue a
permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty
of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer or
Director of Public Works, that the construction proposed under the application
shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 65,
§ 4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The City Engineer or Director of Public Works shall
specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed,
used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the City Engineer or Director of Public Works
fails to provide such specification of location to the telecommunications
retailer within either (i) ten days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or (ii) 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
56.04 the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an application
for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided the
holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
56.21. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall
either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that
it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the city, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from anyone
accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten days following receipt
of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt
by the city, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the City Mayor of such intent to cancel or not to
renew."
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (A), or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) of this
section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self insurer" under
the Workers Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this division
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the City Engineer or Director of Public Works, and may
also include reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the City Engineer or
Director of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the
permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each
phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for
phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days' advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day notice
period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the permittee
shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division (C) of this
section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this §
56.11.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
      (2)   The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this division.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) of this section, the city or its
designee may, at the option of the city: (1) correct the deficiencies; (2) upon
not less than 20 days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities
or equipment; or (3) after not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
city. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all costs of
removal.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger's Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the City Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the City Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
56.20, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division.
      (1)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the City Engineer or Director of Public Works
determines that the proposed location will require the relocation or
displacement of any of the city's utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the city's utility
facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and, Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. §192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the City
Engineer or Director of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for
boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring
or jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction."
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the City Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction." When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
56.21, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer or Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
(1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair; and
(2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                      Minimum Cover
Electric Lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, Cable or Video Service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
Lines                                 city)
Gas or Petroleum Products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water Line                            Sufficient Cover to Provide Freeze
                                      Protection
Sanitary Sewer, Storm Sewer, or       Sufficient Cover to Provide Freeze
Drainage Line                         Protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines," and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: (a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles," "whip augers," or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or (b) the installation is by the open trench method which is
only permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 CFR §
192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," and
all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer or Director of Public Works. With the
approval of the Engineer or Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for
ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the City Director of
Public Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Public Works
when, emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground
facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with
the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act
50, §§ 1 et seq.)
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities - compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities - tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the city shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior to
cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days.
Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to remove all
or any portion of the facility if the City Engineer or Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the City Engineer or Director of Public
Works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling,
regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-
of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to
the commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may
be extended by the City Director of Public Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the City Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The City Engineer or Director of Public
Works shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The City Director of Public Works
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Director of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that mayor may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Engineer or Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall
have the right to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission
as it may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing
to the City Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide
the appeal.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the city will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 853, passed 2-26-18)
2021 S-10
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
79.   IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
   
70.42   Location of city traffic-control signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment of motor vehicles, see
Chapter 79
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways. (ILCS Ch. 70, Act 1205, § 3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of city departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county, or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under § 5-1127 of the Counties Code (ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127); ambulances;
vehicles of the Illinois Department of Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Juvenile Justice; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency; vehicles of the Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue
and explosives emergency response vehicles of the Department of Natural
Resources; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of
the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of
9,000 pounds or more and those identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol;
vehicles of the Illinois Department of Transportation identified as Emergency
Traffic Patrol; and vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and
disaster agency, as defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   AUTOCYCLE. A three-wheel motor vehicle that has a steering wheel and seating
that does not require the operator to straddle or sit astride it. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-104.2)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   CUSTOM VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is at least 25 years of age and of a
model year after 1948 or a custom vehicle manufactured to resemble a vehicle at
least 25 years of age and of a model year after 1948 and has been altered from
the manufacturer's original design or has a body constructed from non-original
materials and which is maintained for occasional transportation, exhibitions,
club activities, parades, tours, and similar uses and which is not used for
general daily transportation. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113.1)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   EXPANDED-USE ANTIQUE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is more than 25 years of
age or a bona fide replica thereof and which is registered and driven on the
highways in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-804.01. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-118.1)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle, or electric personal
assistive mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local
authorities for Fire Department use. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120.7)
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-123.9)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   IN-LINE SPEED SKATES. A manufactured or assembled device consisting of an
upper portion that is intended to be secured to a human foot, with a frame or
chassis attached along the length of the bottom of the upper portion, with a
frame or chassis holding two or more wheels that are longitudinally aligned and
used to skate or glide by means of human foot and leg power while having the
device attached to each foot or leg. The upper portion many not extend more
than two inches above the wearer’s ankle joint. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
131.5)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village, and other local board or
body having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution
and laws of this state and each road district highway commissioner having the
authority. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. Any 4-wheeled vehicle with a maximum speed greater than
20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour that conforms with the
federal motor vehicle safety standards set forth in 49 C.F.R. Part 571.500.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140.7)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. For this
section, motor vehicles are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons.
      (2)   Second division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten persons, those motor vehicles designed or used for
living quarters, those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or
carrying freight, cargo or implements of husbandry, and those motor vehicles of
the First Division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the second
division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147)
   MOPED. A moped is a motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power
derived from manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at
least 20 m.p.h. but not greater than 30 m.p.h., and is equipped with a motor
that produces two brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is
used, the displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and
the power drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight m.p.h. on level ground. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-148.3)
   MULTIFUNCTION SCHOOL ACTIVITY BUS (MFSAB). A school bus manufactured for the
purpose of transporting 11 or more persons, including the driver, whose
purposes do not include transporting students to and from home or school bus
stops. A MFSAB is prohibited from meeting the special requirements for school
buses in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805 and subsection (a)
of § 12-802. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3a-5)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-151)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, by a licensed advanced practice
registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person's functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, recreational off-highway vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle, watercraft, aircraft, bicycle, or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by proper state, county, or local
authorities for police use. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his
principal business, or where he makes up and approves his payroll, maintains a
central file of records, and maintains his principal executive offices. In the
event that not all of these functions are performed in one place, then that
place where a majority of these functions are performed, or the place where the
person does in fact principally transact and control his business affairs shall
be considered as the principal place of business. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
2022 S-11
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws governing
same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the
approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 CFR, Part
214.7. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed
to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less for gas-powered engines or
3,000 pounds or less for electric-powered engines, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-168.8)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 500 feet apart. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
secretary, of a person's license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of such entity:
         (a)   Any public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   Any primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition shall not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when such bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with other special events;
or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division.
         (c)   A multifunction school-activity bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187)
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION.
      (1)   A conviction when operating a motor vehicle for:
         (a)   A violation of §
76.05(A), relating to a motor vehicle crash involving damage to a vehicle;
         (b)   A violation of §
76.04, relating to failure to stop and exchange information after a motor
vehicle collision, property damage only;
         (c)   A violation of subsection (a) of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502,
relating to illegal transportation, possession, or carrying of alcoholic liquor
within the passenger area of any vehicle;
         (d)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101 relating to
operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or permit;
         (e)   A violation of §
76.04, relating to failure to stop and exchange information or give aid after a
motor vehicle collision involving personal injury or death;
         (f)   A violation relating to excessive speeding, involving a single
speeding charge of 26 miles per hour or more above the legal speed limit;
         (g)   A violation relating to reckless driving;
         (h)   A violation of §
71.047(D), relating to passing in a no-passing zone;
         (i)   A violation of §
71.095(B), relating to limitations on backing upon a controlled access highway;
         (j)   A violation of §
71.047(B), relating to driving on the left side of a roadway in a no-passing
zone;
         (k)   A violation of §
74.02(E), relating to failure to yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian at an
intersection;
         (l)   A violation of §
74.09, relating to failure to yield to a pedestrian on a sidewalk; or
         (m)   A violation of §
71.080, relating to failure to stop for an approaching railroad train or
railroad track equipment or signals; or
      (2)   Any other similar violation of a law or local ordinance of any
state relating to motor vehicle traffic control, other than a parking
violation.
      (3)   A violation of any of these defined serious traffic offenses shall
not preclude the defendant from being eligible to receive an order of court
supervision under Section 5-6-1 of the Unified Code of Corrections. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-187.001)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois state police. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 201)
   STREET ROD. A motor vehicle that is a 1948 or older vehicle or a vehicle
that was manufactured after 1948 to resemble a vehicle that was manufactured
before 1949 and has been altered from the manufacturer's original design or has
a body constructed from non-original materials and which is maintained for
occasional transportation, exhibitions, club activities, parades, tours, and
similar uses and which is not used for general daily transportation. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-202.1)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline, or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or an other commodity, including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of 1/4 mile or
more. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-214.8)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3- 101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo and those
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, fireman, person authorized by a local
authority to direct traffic, or school crossing guard invested by law with
authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or refuses
to obey that direction, increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal given by the
police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue light. However,
the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and, if driving a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign. This provision does not apply to the driver of a vehicle approaching
a pedestrian hybrid beacon.
   (F)   Any violation of division (A) that occurs within a designated highway
construction zone or maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less than
$100 and no more than $1,000.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk
that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by traffic
controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) of this section,
vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) of this section,
vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the
intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering
the intersection to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and city
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2)
of this section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2) of this
section, the driver of a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal
which fails to change to a green signal within a reasonable period of time not
less than 120 seconds because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has
failed to detect the arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle’s
size or weight, shall have the right to proceed, after yielding the right-of-
way to oncoming traffic facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable
after making a stop at a stop sign as required by §
70.41.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don't Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don't Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm symbol
shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don't Walk” signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic- control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in this city which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the city as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway
Act, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311)
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any
public highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage,
injure, or remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed
in connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or
for the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalty which may
be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The City Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the city, is authorized to indicate the ownership
of the signs, signals, or markers in letters not less than 3/8 inch, or more
than ¾ inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other permanent
means. Except for employees of the City Street Department, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in a highway construction contract or
work on the highway approved by the city, it is unlawful for any person to
possess a sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be travelled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance or by appropriate
statutory penalty as generally set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et
seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $750.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.10 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$150. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver's view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment of motor vehicle, see
Chapter 79
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this city at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any
person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (C) and (D) below, by §
71.002, or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (C)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit shall be as determined under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
601.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1 and Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following entities:
      (1)   A public or private primary or secondary school.
      (2)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious institution.
      (3)   A public, private, or religious nursery school.
   (B)   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 miles
per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling on a local, county, or
state roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where
children pass going to and from school.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section a SCHOOL DAY shall begin at 7:00 a.m.
and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
   (D)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under their respective jurisdiction and
maintained by the city. With regard to the special speed limit while passing
schools, such signs shall give proper due warning that a school zone is being
approached and shall indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in
effect during school days when school children are present.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating such zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding provided the use of
such device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in such
special school speed zone.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) below, a person who
violates this section is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of this section
are punishable with a minimum fine of $150 for the first violation, a minimum
fine of $300 for the second or subsequent violation, and community service in
an amount determined by the court.
      (2)   A person committing a violation of this section is guilty of
aggravated special speed limit while passing schools when he or she drives a
motor vehicle at a speed that is:
         (a)   Twenty-six miles per hour or more but less than 35 miles per
hour in excess of the applicable special speed limit established under this
section and is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor;
         (b)   Thirty-five miles per hour or more in excess of the applicable
special speed limit established under this section and is guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in this city where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such devices.
   (B)   Two-way left turn lanes. Where a special lane for making left turns by
drivers proceeding in opposite directions has been indicated by official
traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-
208 must be used and operated as prescribed in division (B) of this section to
indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct
course, move right or left upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked
position. Unless the conditions of division (B) of this section are met, an
electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208 shall not
be left in the on position and must not be flashed on one side only on a parked
or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators
of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, signal devices may be
flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic;
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of- way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2). However, this division
shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making
a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section does not apply:
      (1)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
      (2)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to drive
in the right lane;
      (3)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it necessary
to drive in the left lane;
      (4)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
      (5)   When a vehicle changes lanes to comply with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§
11-907, 11-907.5 and 11-908;
      (6)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
      (7)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic control device; or
      (8)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties and vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least 1/2 of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the
same direction on a highway may, subject to the provisions in division (D) and
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706, pass to the left of the bicycle on a portion of
the highway designated as a no-passing zone under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707
if the driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle when:
      (1)   The bicycle is traveling at a speed of less than half of the posted
speed limit of the highway;
      (2)   The driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle without
exceeding the posted speed limit of the highway; and
      (3)   There is sufficient distance to the left of the centerline of the
highway for the motor vehicle to meet the overtaking and passing requirements
under this section.
   (F)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close to, toward, or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian, or a person riding a horse or driving an animal drawn vehicle.
   (G)   Every person convicted of division (F) of this section shall be guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not result in great bodily harm
or permanent disability or disfigurement to another. If the violation results
in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to another, the
person shall be guilty of a Class 3 felony, to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle;
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division (B) does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. Such movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when
the movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property, or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. Such stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-803 and 12-805. The driver
of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the
driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be
actuated continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
school bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils
within an
urban area and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing head lamps permitted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 12-805 may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal
lamps required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop such vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop such vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
   (F)   (1)   The Secretary of State shall suspend for a period of three
months the driving privileges of any person convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance; the
Secretary shall suspend for a period of one year the driving privileges of any
person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of division (A) of this
section or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the second or subsequent
violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction for the same offense.
In addition to the suspensions authorized by this section, any person convicted
of violating this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall be
subject to a mandatory fine of $300 or, upon a second or subsequent violation,
$1,000, and community service in an amount set by the court. The Secretary may
also grant, for the duration of any suspension issued under this division, a
restricted driving permit granting the privilege of driving a motor vehicle
between the driver's residence and place of employment or within other proper
limits that the Secretary of State shall find necessary to avoid any undue
hardship. A restricted driving permit issued hereunder shall be subject to
cancellation, revocation and suspension by the Secretary of State in like
manner and for like cause as a driver's license may be cancelled, revoked or
suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more offenses against laws or
ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be deemed sufficient cause
for the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the restricted driving
permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the issuance of a
restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate in a designated
driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a violation of
this division shall be included as an offense for the purposes of determining
suspension action under any other provision of this chapter, provided however,
that the penalties provided under this division shall be imposed unless those
penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are greater.
      (2)   The owner of any vehicle alleged to have violated division (A) of
this section shall, upon appropriate demand by the State's Attorney or other
designated person acting in response to a signed complaint, provide a written
statement or deposition identifying the operator of the vehicle if such
operator was not the owner at the time of the alleged violation. Failure to
supply such information shall result in the suspension of the vehicle
registration of the vehicle for a period of three months. In the event the
owner has assigned control for the use of the vehicle to another, the person to
whom control was assigned shall comply with the provisions of this division and
be subject to the same penalties as herein provided.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway within the city where overtaking and passing or driving on the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.040 (A)(2), §
71.042(E), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road, or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the no-
passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver's direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing except when it is necessary to use a
different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if he or she is complying
with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-907, 11-907.5 or 11-908.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709) Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with
another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal;
the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall, if
necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop and remain
in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
   (C)   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle, when the
authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber or yellow
warning lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall:
      (1)   Proceeding with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a
lane change into a lane not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency
vehicle, if possible with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a
highway having at least four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in
the same direction as the approaching vehicle; or
      (2)   If changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe, proceeding with
due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed for road
conditions and leaving a safe distance until safely past the stationary
emergency vehicles.
      (3)   The visual signal specified under this division given by an
authorized emergency vehicle is an indication to drivers of approaching
vehicles that a hazardous condition is present when circumstances are not
immediately clear. Drivers of vehicles approaching a stationary emergency
vehicle in any lane shall heed the warning of the signal, reduce the speed of
the vehicle, proceed with due caution, maintain a safe speed for road
conditions, be prepared to stop, and leave a safe distance until safely passed
the stationary emergency vehicle.
   (D)   As used in division (C) of this section, AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE
includes any vehicle authorized by law to be equipped with oscillating,
rotating, or flashing lights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215, while the
owner or operator of the vehicle is engaged in his or her official duties.
   (E)   A person who violates division (C) of this section commits a business
offense punishable by a fine of not less than $250 or more than $10,000 for a
first violation, and a fine of not less than $750 or more than $10,000 for a
second or subsequent violation. It is a factor in aggravation if the person
committed the offense while in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-501, 12-
610.1, or 12-610.2. Imposition of the penalties authorized by this division for
a violation of division (C) of this section that results in the death of
another person does not preclude imposition of appropriate additional civil or
criminal penalties. A person who violates division (C) and the violation
results in damage to another vehicle commits a Class A misdemeanor. A person
who violates division (C) and the violation results in the injury or death of
another person commits a Class 4 felony.
   (F)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in damage to
the property of another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the
person's driving privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less
than 90 days and not more than one year.
   (G)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in injury to
another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person's driving
privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less than 180 days and
not more than two years.
   (H)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in the death of
another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person's driving
privileges shall be suspended for two years.
   (I)   The Secretary of State shall, upon receiving a record of a judgment
entered against a person under division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Suspend the person's driving privileges for the mandatory period;
or
      (2)   Extend the period of an existing suspension by the appropriate
mandatory period.
   (J)   In addition to other penalties imposed by this section, the court may
order a person convicted of a violation of division (C) to perform community
service as determined by the court.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard
warning signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a
procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or his or her designee may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this Section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (3)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a highway
crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing; or
      (5)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
   (B)   Whenever any person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
state law, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is not always
required to stop, the person must exercise due care and caution as the
existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of danger, and
under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad
and shall not proceed until the tracks are clear and he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (3)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a highway
crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing;
      (5)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
   (C)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
state law, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is not always
required to stop but must slow down, the person must exercise due care and
caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of
danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver
shall slow down within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail
of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she checks that the tracks
are clear of an approaching train or railroad track equipment.
   (D)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (E)   The Department, and local authorities with the approval of the
Department, are hereby authorized to designate particularly dangerous highway
grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat. When such stop
signs are erected the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall proceed only
upon exercising due care.
   (F)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates, or a
human flagman giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or railroad
track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad
crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for
the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly
marked stopped line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she can do so safely. If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad
crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment
after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference
is prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
   (G)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
   (H)   It is unlawful to violate any part of this section.
      (1)   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a fine of
$500 shall be imposed for a first violation, and a fine of $1,000 shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $500 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
   (I)   Corporate authorities of municipal corporations regulating operators
of vehicles that fail to obey signals indicating the presence, approach,
passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment shall impose fines
as established in division (G) of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805. The driver of the bus,
in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this
division (A), must also turn off all noise producing accessories, including
heater blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and open the
service door and driver's window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before
crossing a railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet
but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall
listen and look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and
shall not proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
         (a)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in state law, carrying
passengers for hire;
         (b)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in state law and is designed to transport 16 or more persons, including
the driver. The driver of the bus, in addition to complying with all other
applicable requirements of this division (B), must also (i) turn off all noise
producing accessories, including heater blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary
fans, and radios, and (ii) open the service door and driver's window, before
crossing a railroad track or tracks;
         (c)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to
be placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
      (2)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall
proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and
the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (C)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) of this section shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned, industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles,
pedestrians or railroad trains notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
   (C)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in state
law, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is sufficient space
on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle
being operated without obstructing the passage of a train or other railroad
equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
   (D)   The Secretary of State shall suspend for a period of one month the
driving privileges of any person convicted of a violation of division (B) of
this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance; the Secretary shall
suspend for a period of three months the driving privileges of any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of division (B) of this section
or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the second or subsequent
violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction for the same offense.
In addition to the suspensions authorized by this section, any person convicted
of violating division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local
ordinance shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community
service. Any person given a disposition of court supervision for violating
division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall
also be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service.
Upon a second or subsequent violation, in addition to the suspensions
authorized by this section, the person shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$500 and 50 hours community service. The Secretary may also grant, for the
duration of any suspension issued under this division, a restricted driving
permit granting the privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver's
residence and place of employment or within other proper limits that the
Secretary of State shall find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A
restricted driving permit issued hereunder shall be subject to cancellation,
revocation and suspension by the Secretary of State in like manner and for like
cause as a driver's license may be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that
a conviction upon one or more offenses against laws or ordinances regulating
the movement of traffic shall be deemed sufficient cause for the revocation,
suspension or cancellation of the restricted driving permit. The Secretary of
State may, as a condition to the issuance of a restricted driving permit,
require the applicant to participate in a designated driver remedial or
rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a violation of this division shall
be included as an offense for the purposes of determining suspension action
under any other provision of this Code, provided however, that the penalties
provided under this division shall be imposed unless those penalties imposed
under other applicable provisions are greater.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425) Penalty, see §  
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver's or motorman's view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human
power nor to any motorized wheelchair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter, as defined in the Litter
Control Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215, hazardous waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5, § 3.220, and potentially infectious medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, § 3.360, dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
city, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to interfere
with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in this city
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase
to its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms
provided by such officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council from time
to time.
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor and the Fire Chief.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
Snow Emergencies
   
72.25   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.26   Termination of emergency
   
72.27   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.40   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.41   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except as set forth by ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the state Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or digital registration sticker or current
temporary permit pending registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303) Penalty, see divisions (A) and (C) of §
72.99
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The city, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for the
maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the city regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, and §
72.10 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in such
position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all times that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(b).
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2, or
to a veteran with a disability pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609, as
evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or a
veteran with a disability, in any parking place, including any private or
public off-street parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park
any motor vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place
specifically reserved for persons with disabilities, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges
for persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view. Disability license plates and parking decals and
devices are not transferable from person to person. Proper usage of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device requires the authorized
holder to be present and enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking
privileges are being used. It is a violation of this section to park in a space
reserved for a person with disabilities if the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device does not enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. Any motor vehicle
properly displaying a disability license plate or a decal or device containing
the international symbol of access issued to persons with disabilities by any
local authority, state, district, territory, or foreign country shall be
recognized as a valid license plate or device and receive the same parking
privileges as residents of the village.
      (2)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11- 1301.1 or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran
with a disability under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this
section if; (a) the person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location and; (b) the person uses the disability license plate or parking decal
or device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license
plate or parking decals or devices under this title.
      (3)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301-2 or to a veteran with a
disability under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this section
if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability licensed plate or parking
decal or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through a disability license plate or
parking decal or device under this title.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of division (A)
shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. The village shall display
signs indicating the fine imposed, and if the amount of the fine is
subsequently changed, the village shall change the sign to indicate the current
amount of the fine. It shall not be a defense to a charge under this section
that either the sign posted pursuant to this section or the intended accessible
parking place does not comply with the technical requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-301, Department regulations, or local ordinances if a reasonable
person would be made aware by the sign or notice on or near the parking place
that the place is reserved for a person with disabilities.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616, an individual
issued a parking decal or device under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2, or an
individual issued a license plate for veterans with disabilities under ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 3-609.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(a), (a-1), (a-2), (b), (c), (e)) Penalty, see
§
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor finds that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will
create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles
on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a
firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so
forecasted may create a condition making it necessary that such parking be
prohibited, he is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective
at a time specified by him. After the effective time of such prohibition no
person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Mayor has not announced prior
to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by
the Mayor under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he
announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after
which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be
in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor shall find that some or all of the conditions which gave
rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to
declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective
immediately on announcement. If such announcement is made other than between 6:
00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.27 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Mayor.
On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, special signs
shall be posted to this effect.
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.40 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.11 or any other applicable section of this traffic code or ordinance of the
city, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the
roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner; or
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   The person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay; or
      (4)   The registration of the vehicle has been suspended, cancelled, or
revoked.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302)
§ 72.41 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving such vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of such offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates or
digital registration plates and registration sticker or stickers or digital
registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.12(A)(1) shall be fined $250 in addition to any costs or charges connected
with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.12(A)(2) a first time shall be fined $600. Any person found guilty of
violating §
72.12(A)(2) a second or subsequent time shall be fined $1,000. Any person who
violates §
72.12(A)(3) is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined $2,500. The
circuit clerk shall distribute 50% of the fine imposed on any person who is
found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating this §
72.12, including any person placed on court supervision for violating §
72.12, to the law enforcement agency that issued the citation or made the
arrest. If more than one law enforcement agency is responsible for issuing the
citation or making the arrest, the 50% of the fine imposed shall be shared
equally. If an officer of the Secretary of State Department of Police arrested
a person for a violation of §
72.12, 50% of the fine imposed shall be deposited into the Secretary of State
Police Services Fund.
         (b)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.12(A)(2) may have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by the
Secretary of the State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of the
State. Any person who commits a violation of §
72.12(A)(3) shall have his or her driving privileges revoked by the Secretary
of State. The Secretary of the State may also suspend or revoke the disability
license plates or parking decal or device for a period of time determined by
the Secretary of the State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1301.3(c), (c-1), and (f))
    (C)   A violation of any part of §
72.10(A)(1)(h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.07   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.08   Riding on mopeds
   
73.09   Registering bicycles
Motorcycles
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles, motor driven cycles
or mopeds
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or moped on one wheel
Golf Carts
   
73.30   Definitions
   
73.31   Requirements
   
73.32   Permits
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, including, but not limited to, rights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-
901 et seq., and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this
traffic code, and those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature
can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle,
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction; or
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right- hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division (A)(3), a SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane
that is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to
travel safely side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of the roadway as practicable.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the state Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a lamp emitting
a steady or flashing red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
may be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren. This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle that is a
police vehicle or Fire Department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the state Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least 3/16 inch
wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the
continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the bicycle, and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
state Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all distances from
100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-powered beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons; any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to mopeds.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 REGISTERING BICYCLES.
   (A)   Any person who owns a bicycle or bicycles within the corporate limits
of the City of Grayville shall register the bicycle(s) with the Grayville
Police Department; said registration shall not be required for any person,
business or corporation which has bicycle(s) on its premises for repair or
sale.
   (B)   The registration will be done at the Grayville Police Department, 102
S. Main Street, Grayville, IL 62844, between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 8:00
p.m., Tuesday through Saturday.
   (C)   The registration fee is one dollar, and shall be due upon
registration.
   (D)   Any person who is a resident of the City of Grayville who is riding,
possessing, transporting, or carrying a bicycle shall have a registration
sticker/tag, that has been previously issued by the Grayville Police Department
affixed to the bicycle, and visible at all times to a police officer or their
agent.
   (E)   When requested by a police officer, or their agent, any person in
possession of a bicycle shall provide proof of registration.
   (F)   Any bicycle with a defaced, missing, or altered registration shall be
subject to seizure by the Grayville Police Department.
   (G)   The owner of any bicycle with a defaced, missing, or altered
registration, shall immediately re-register the bicycle with the Grayville
Police Department.
   (H)   After the initial registration, any person who resides within the City
of Grayville and assumes ownership of a registered bicycle by purchase, trade
or transfer of ownership, shall within ten days, re-register the bicycle with
the Grayville Police Department.
   (I)   All rules and regulations that are applicable in the Illinois Vehicle
Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1501 through 11-1515) shall be enforced as
part of this section.
   (J)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section for the
first time shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than ten dollars
nor more than $50 for each unregistered bicycle. Thereafter, he or she shall be
subject to the standard City of Grayville schedule of fines.
   (K)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section for the third time shall be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor.
(Ord. 882, passed 11-25-19)
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator or any motorcycle shall keep at least one hand on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES
OR MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped and every
passenger thereon shall be protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent
shield.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, glasses, goggles, and transparent
shields are defined as follows:
      (1)   GLASSES. Ordinary eye pieces such as spectacles or sunglasses worn
before the eye, made of shatter-resistant material. Shatter-resistant material,
as used in this section, means material so manufactured, fabricated, or created
that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or broken.
      (2)   GOGGLES. A device worn before the eyes, the predominant function of
which is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision. Goggles
shall provide protection from the front and sides, and may or may not form a
complete seal with the face.
      (3)   TRANSPARENT SHIELD. A windshield attached to the front of a
motorcycle that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the
normal, upright riding position, made of shatter-resistant material, or a
shatter-resistant protective face shield that covers the wearer's eyes and face
at least to a point approximately to the tip of the nose.
   (C)   Contact lenses are not acceptable eye protection devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE, OR MOPED ON ONE WHEEL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or moped on
one wheel.
   (B)   A person commits aggravated operating a motorcycle, motor driven
cycle, or moped on one wheel when he or she violates division (A) above while
committing a violation of §
71.001(A). A violation of this division (B) is a petty offense with a minimum
fine of $100, except a second conviction of a violation of this division (B) is
a Class B misdemeanor and a third or subsequent conviction of a violation of
this division (B)is a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.30 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter:
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the city, except
for state and county roads.
   COUNTY ROADS. Includes County Road 2600N, which is known as West North
Street.
   GOLF CART. Includes those vehicles defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
123.9, being a vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course,
and for the sole and limited purpose of this subchapter, shall also include
those vehicles that would otherwise be defined as “recreational off-highway
vehicle” in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168.8, being any motorized off-highway
device designed to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width,
having a manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less for gas-powered
engines or 3,000 pounds or less for electric-powered engines, traveling on four
or more non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering
wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers. The definition
of a GOLF CART for purposes of this subchapter specifically excludes all-
terrain vehicles (ATVs), off-highway motorcycles, and any other vehicle that is
not otherwise defined herein as a GOLF CART.
   STATE ROADS. Includes Illinois Route 1 (N. Court Street) and Illinois Route
130 (Hagedorn Road).
(Ord. 689, passed 8-13-07; Am. Ord. 766, passed 10-8-12)
§ 73.31 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart on the streets of the City of
Grayville must ensure compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of liability insurance;
   (B)   Must display city decal front and rear;
   (C)   Must be inspected by city police or designated representative;
   (D)   Must have a valid Illinois driver's license;
   (E)   Must be equipped with windshield, seat belts for driver and each
passenger, horn, brakes, a steering wheel apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror,
an approved slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the golfcart, a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a
tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear,
brake lights, and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a golf cart shall
have its headlight and tail lamps lighted (see 625 ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-
1428);
   (F)   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and City of
Grayville;
   (G)   Passengers under age eight must be secured by an appropriate child
restraint system as covered by the Child Passenger Protection Act;
   (H)   Operator must be 16 years of age or older;
   (I)   Must not exceed 20 miles per hour;
   (J)   May only operate on city streets with the exception of authorized
crossing of state or county roads;
   (K)   Those golf carts that would constitute vehicles as defined in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5 § 1-123.9, used for golfing purposes, shall not be operated in
inclement weather, nor when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or
other conditions. Those golf carts that would otherwise constitute
"recreational off-highway vehicles" as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
168.8, being motorized off- highway devices, can be operated in such weather
conditions.
   (L)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart on
a roadway while under the influence is subject to §§ 11-500 through 11-502 of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 through 11-502);
   (M)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or in city parks other
than paved areas;
   (N)   Golf carts may not be operated on streets and highways and roads under
the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation (Illinois Route 1
or Illinois Route 130) or the county highway department, absent prior approval
from the appropriate government authority;
   (O)   Golf carts may not be operated on state or county roads except to
cross at designated streets when authorized by the State of Illinois Department
of Transportation, or such other controlling department of government, as
applicable. The city will ensure that signs are erected to designate authorized
crossing points, with crossings to be authorized for State Route No.1 (N. Court
Street), at North Street and Martin Street, Highway 130 North, at North 151
Street, and North State Road, at its intersection with North 3rd Street and
Carothers Street.
(Ord. 689, passed 8-13-07; Am. Ord. 892, passed 8-10-20; Am. Ord. 912, passed -
-)
§ 73.32 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart without obtaining a
permit from the City Clerk as provided in this section. Permits shall be
granted for a period of one year and may be renewed annually. The cost of a
permit is $35. Insurance coverage is to be verified in effect by the City Clerk
when issuing or renewing the permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)    The serial number, make, model and description of the golf cart;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city from any
and all future claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart on city
streets; and
      (5)   Photostatic copy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the golf cart to be operated on city streets. When operated on
a roadway, a golf cart shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted.
(Ord. 689, passed 8-13-07)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.071   Person standing on a public highway
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply under the condition
stated in §
74.03(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.063.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 PEDESTRIAN WITH DISABILITIES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within this city shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any person
engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 460, §§ 0.01
et seq.).
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity.
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age
or more and shall be wearing a high-visibility vest.
   (E)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
   (F)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Person standing on public highway, see §
74.071
§ 74.071 PERSON STANDING ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall stand on a public highway, as defined in the Illinois
Motor Vehicle Code, within the corporate limits of the city, for the purposes
of soliciting contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless that
person is a member of an organization that has satisfied the following
conditions before engaging in solicitation activities:
      (1)   Has registered with the Attorney General as a charitable
organization as provided by "an Act to regulate solicitation and collection of
funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefore," approved July 26, 1963, as amended.
      (2)   Is engaged in a statewide fund raising activity.
      (3)   Has submitted an application, approved by the City Council,
describing the fund raising event, as well as the date, time, location of the
solicitation, and names of all scheduled participants.
      (4)   Has agreed in writing that the organization accepts responsibility
for any injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which is
casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent.
   (B)   An authorized solicitor shall be 16 years of age, or more, and shall
wear a highly visible vest or like article of clothing.
(Ord. 578, passed 6-8-98)
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where a sidewalk is provided
and its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 miles per
hour or less, and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is
18 years of age or older and wearing in- line speed skates may travel upon the
roadway as near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway. Pedestrians
wearing in-line speed skates upon a roadway may not impede or obstruct other
vehicular traffic. Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to
all other rights and duties under this chapter. Nothing in this title shall be
construed to prevent a pedestrian wearing in-line speed skates from using a
lane designated for bicycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the presence, approach, passage, or departure of a railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   (D)   A violation of any part of this section is a petty offense for which a
$250 fine shall be imposed for a first violation, and a $500 fine shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $250 fine for a first violation.
   (E)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in division (D) of
this section for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance or by appropriate
statutory penalty as generally set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et
seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $750.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
74.071 shall be enjoined from further solicitation activities, and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 578, passed 6-8-98)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.10   Scope and effect of size, weight, and load regulations
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.,
or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., with respect
to equipment on vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers, or farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers
having a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a
gross weight of not to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the
transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not
to exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
highways only for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local
source of supply to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.10 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across or
for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq. or otherwise in
violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq., and the maximum size and
weight of vehicles herein specified shall be lawful throughout this state, and
local authorities shall have no power or authority to alter such limitations
except as express authority may be granted in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et
seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq. governing
size, weight and load do not apply to equipment for snow and ice removal
operations owned or operated by any governmental body, or to implements of
husbandry, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq., temporarily
operated or towed in a combination upon a highway provided such combination
does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case of hauling fresh,
perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first processing, not
more than three wagons being towed by an implement of husbandry, or to a
vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit issued hereunder. Except
for weight limits on Class I highways under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et
seq., the provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq. governing size,
weight, and load do not apply to fire apparatus or emergency vehicles.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq.
governing size, weight, and load do not apply to any snow and ice removal
equipment that is no more than 12 feet in width, if the equipment displays
flags at least 18 inches square mounted on the driver's side of the snow plow.
      (2)   These vehicles must be equipped with an illuminated rotating,
oscillating, or flashing amber light or lights, or a flashing amber strobe
light or lights, mounted on the top of the cab and of sufficient intensity to
be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. If the load on the transport vehicle
blocks the visibility of the amber lighting from the rear of the vehicle, the
vehicle must also be equipped with an illuminated rotating, oscillating, or
flashing amber light or lights, or a flashing amber strobe light or lights,
mounted on the rear of the load and of sufficient intensity to be visible at
500 feet in normal sunlight. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101)
   (D)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the city in
violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions set forth in any applicable ordinance.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway unless the protruding component is fastened so as to
prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The state Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the state Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this city, except in
an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   (Reserved)
   
76.03   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Crash involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   (Reserved)
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment of motor vehicle, see
Chapter 79
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if he or she:
   (A)   Drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drives a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach, or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 (RESERVED)
§ 76.03 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash, or as close thereto as possible and shall
then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the
crash until the requirements of § 76.04 have been fulfilled. Every such stop
shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the
requirements of division (A) of this section shall, as soon as possible but in
no case later than one-half hour after such motor vehicle crash, or, if
hospitalized and incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period,
as soon as possible but in no case later than one-half hour after being
discharged from the hospital, report the place of the crash, the date, the
approximate time, the driver's name and address, the registration number of the
vehicle driven, and the names of all other occupants of such vehicle, at a
police station or sheriff's office near the place where such crash occurred. No
report made as required under this division (B) shall be used, directly or
indirectly, as a basis for the prosecution of any violation of division (A) of
this section.
      (2)   Any person arrested for violating this section is subject to
chemical testing of his or her blood, breath, other bodily substance, or urine
for the presence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or
compounds, or any combination thereof, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-501.1, if the testing occurs within 12 hours of the time of the occurrence
of the crash that led to his or her arrest. The person's driving privileges are
subject to statutory summary suspension under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.1
if he or she fails testing or statutory summary revocation under ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-501.1 if he or she refuses to undergo the testing.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor's
office.
   (D)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privilege of any
person convicted of a violation of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver's name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and shall upon
request and if available, exhibit the driver's license to the person struck or
the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and
shall render to any person injured in the crash reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of the
person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the crash at the Police Department, disclosing the information
required by this section. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 76.05 CRASH INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle crash or
as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
§ 76.04 have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this section if the
driver moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to the nearest
safe location on a exit ramp shoulder, frontage road, the nearest suitable
cross street, or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic and
remains at that location until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of §
76.04. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
      (2)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-
204. Upon receipt of such report of conviction and statement of finding that
the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver's license or any nonresident's driving privilege.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
Code or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or toll
highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to move
the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle to
the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) of this section, as
provided in subsection (b) of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a
motor vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver's name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver's name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the nearest office of a
duly authorized police authority and shall make a written report of such crash
when and as required by state law. Every such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing
traffic lanes, the driver of the vehicle must make every reasonable effort to
move the vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
Code or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or toll
highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to move
the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle to
the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) of this section, as
provided in subsection (b) of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 76.07 (RESERVED)
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
§§
76.08 through 76.14 with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is
false shall be fined as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409)
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
    
 I. Through streets
    
II. Stop intersections
   
III. Traffic lights
   
IV. Speed regulations
    
V. One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Before entering upon or crossing any of the through streets, all
vehicles shall come to a full stop and give traffic moving along such through
streets the right-of-way, except at the intersection of North Street and Court
Street, where two through streets intersect, all vehicles on each street shall
come to a full stop before proceeding across the other street and traffic
approaching from the driver's right shall have the right-of-way at the
intersection of the through streets. The following streets are hereby
designated as through streets:
 
Street                                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Court Street (State Highway No. 1)                        148      8-18-52
Mill Street (except as to traffic moving to Court Street) 148      8-18-52
North State Road (State Highway No. 130)                  148      8-18-52
North Street                                              148      8-18-52
South Street (except as to traffic moving on Main Street  148      8-18-52
and on Court Street)
South Water Street                                        —      1-6-58
 
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or failing
to comply with any provision thereof, shall be subject to a penalty of not less
than $1 nor more than $200 and costs.
(Ord. 148, passed 8-18-52)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   All vehicles shall come to a full stop before a stop intersection and
opposing traffic shall have the right of way over such vehicles.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Alexander Lane      Intersection of First Street           661      12-22-03
Bishop Street       West Side of South Water Street to     776      6-24-13
                    make the intersection a four-way stop
Court Street        Intersection of North Street           148      8-18-52
First Street        Intersection of Plum Street            148      8-18-52
North First Street  Intersection of West Fair Street for   751      8-22-11
                    northbound traffic
North First Street  Intersection at West Martin Street for 762      5-29-12
                    both northbound and southbound traffic
Hilltop Drive       Intersection of Loren Drive            661      12-22-03
Loren Drive         Intersection of Alexander Lane         661      12-22-03
Loren Drive         Intersection of First Street           661      12-22-03
South Main Street   Intersection of Walnut Street          921      1-24-22
East Martin         Intersection of North Main Street      —      1-6-58
                    Intersection of East Commerce Street
South Middle Street for both eastbound and westbound       769      2-11-13
                    traffic
                    Intersection of East Commerce Street
South Middle Street for both northbound and southbound     814      3-28-16
                    traffic
Mill Street         Intersection of First Street           629      2-25-02
Mulberry Street     Intersection of South Main and Walnut  921      1-24-22
                    Streets
North Street        Intersection of Court Street           148      8-18-52
South Second Street Intersection of West Commerce Street   —      7-6-53
Sycamore Street     Intersection of First Street           148      8-18-52
Terrace Road        Intersection of Fisk Avenue            661      12-22-03
Walnut Street       Intersection of Water Street           148      8-18-52
Walnut Street       Intersection of South Main Street      921      1-24-22
Washington Street   Intersection of East North Street      —      7-6-53
South Water Street  Intersection of Bishop Street for both 776      6-24-13
                    northbound and southbound traffic
 
Penalty, see
Chapter 77, Schedule I. (B)
SCHEDULE III. TRAFFIC LIGHTS.
   All vehicles shall come to a full stop on a red light or signal on the
traffic lights at the intersections; pedestrians using the cross walks at the
intersections identified by painted lines on the pavement, while the red light
or signal is on, shall have the right-of-way over vehicles.
 
Intersection                                         Ord. No. Date Passed
Court Street (State Highway No. 1) and Martin Street 148      8-18-52
Court Street (State Highway No. 1) and Butler Street 148      8-18-52
 
Penalty, see
Chapter 77, Schedule I. (B)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of the
speed limit as set forth on the following streets of the city:
 
Street             Location                   Speed     Ord. No. Date Passed
Helck Street       All                        25 mph    885;     5-11-20;
                                                        913      5-10-21
Koehler Street     All                        25 mph    885;     5-11-20;
                                                        913      5-10-21
North Street       Court Street to west city     20 m   —12-6-54
                   limits
                   Between its intersections
North First Street with North Fair Street and 25 mph    945      9-11-23
                   Illinois Highway 130
Stephenson Street  All                        25 mph    885;     5-11-20;
                                                        913      5-10-21
South Water Street All                        25 mph    762      5-29-12
 
Penalty, see
Chapter 77, Schedule I. (B)
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets and/or alleys are hereby designated as one-way.
 
Street             Location                           Ord. No. Date Passed
Butler Street      South Second Street to South Court 148      8-2-52
                   Street
East Butler Street South Court Street to South Middle 935-A    3-27-23
                   Street
 
Penalty, see
Chapter 77, Schedule I. (B)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I. Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited on the following streets:
Street Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Side            Location              Ord. No. Date Passed
                                     Between South Second
Butler Street        South           Street to South Court —      8-2-54
                                     Street
West Butler Street                                       751      8-22-11
East Commerce Street North           Between Main Street   816      4-11-16
                                     and Middle Street
First Street         East            Between North Street  —;     9-4-56;
                                     to South Street       921      1-24-22
Helck Street         East and West   Entire street         913      5-10-21
Illinois Route 1     Both            From North Street to  663      3-22-04
                                     Illinois Route 130
                                     Between Illinois
Illinois Route 130   Both            Route 1 and the north 391-A    12-27-79
                                     corporate city limits
Koehler Street       North and South Entire street         913      5-10-21
                                     Between Mill Street
Main Street          East            and North Court       921      1-24-22
                                     Street
                                     Between East North
                                     Street and the stop
Main Street          West            sign at the           921      1-24-22
                                     intersection of Main
                                     Street with Walnut
                                     Street
West Martin Street   North           Between Third Street  885      5-11-20
                                     and North State Road
                                     Between North (State
Mill Street          North           Highway No. 1) and    148      8-18-52
                                     Main Street
Mill Street          North           Between Short Street  921      1-24-22
                                     and Third Street
                                     Between Court Street
                                     (IL Rt. 1) and the
                                     west city limits;
                                     except parking will
                                     be allowed on the
North Street         Both            south side of West    921      1-24-22
                                     North Street, from
                                     Court Street to
                                     Second Street, on
                                     Sundays between 8:00
                                     a.m. and Noon
                                     Between Third Street
North Street         South           and the west city     —      9-17-55
                                     limits
                                     Between 229 East
                                     North Street and the
East North Street    South           intersection of East  925      5-23-22
                                     North Street and
                                     South Main Street
West North Street    North           Between First Street  815      3-28-16
                                     and Second Street
                                     Between Court Street
                                     (IL Rt. 1) and First
                                     Street; except
                                     parking will be
West North Street    North and South allowed on the south  903      12-28-20
                                     side of West North
                                     Street on Sundays
                                     between 8:00 a.m. and
                                     Noon
                                     Between the
                                     intersections of
Oxford Street        West            Oxford Street with    727      4-27-09
                                     Bishop Street and
                                     Park Street
Second Street        Both            Between West Mill and 921      1-24-22
                                     West North Street
Second Street        West            Between South Street  148      8-18-52
                                     and Commerce Street
Second Street        West            Between West North    921      1-24-22
                                     and Commerce Street
South Street         South           Between Court Street  148      8-18-52
                                     and Main Street
South Street         Both            Between Second Street 921      1-24-22
                                     and Third Street
South Third Street   East            Entire street         —      12-17-56
                                     Between North First
Spring Street        North           Street and Old State  652      5-27-03
                                     Road
Stephenson Street    North and South Entire street         913      5-10-21
West Sycamore Street North           Between First Street  781      4-14-14
                                     and North State Road
Walnut Street        South           Between Main Street   921      1-24-22
                                     and Water Street
Water Street         West            Between Walnut Street 921      1-24-22
                                     and Bishop Street
 
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this table or
failing to comply with any provision thereof, except pertaining to Illinois
Route 1, shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $1 nor more than $200
and costs.
      (2)   Any person who violates the parking provision pertaining to
Illinois Route 1 is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 148, passed 8-18-52; Am. Ord. 663, passed 3-22-04)
CHAPTER 79: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE
Section
   
79.01   Definitions
   
79.02   Violations authorizing impoundment
   
79.03   Seizure and impoundment
   
79.04   Administrative hearing
   
79.05   Disposition of impounded motor vehicle
   
79.06   Motor vehicle possession
   
79.07   Towing agency
   
79.08   Refund of administrative fee
Cross-reference:
   Motor vehicle offenses, see
Chapter 76
§ 79.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which the offices of City Hall are open to the
public for a minimum of eight hours.
   LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.  Means and shall be $200.
   LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. Means and shall be $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including but not
limited to automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The record title holder(s) of the motor vehicle as
registered with the Secretary of State, State of Illinois; or if not registered
in Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is registered.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.02 VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission of
the owner of record, that is used in connection with the following violations,
or any amendments or revisions to the listed statutory provisions, shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment by the city, and the owner of record of the
motor vehicle shall be liable to the city for a Level 1 administrative fee, as
provided for in this chapter, in addition to any towing and storage fees as
hereinafter provided.
State Statute Violation
State Statute                        Violation
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303        Driving while license revoked
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-204       Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace
                                     officer
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501       Driving under the influence alcohol/drugs
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503       Reckless driving or aggravated reckless
                                     driving
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506       Street racing; aggravated street racing
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.5     Speeding in excess of 40 mph Class A
                                     misdemeanor
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6         Indecent solicitation of a child
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-2         Aggravated assault
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05      Aggravated battery
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(a)(4)Aggravated batter of a senior citizen
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(b)   Aggravated battery of a child
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(e)   Aggravated battery with a firearm
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16-25        Retail theft of merchandise exceeding
                                     $150.00 value
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-1         Robbery
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-2         Armed robbery
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-1         Burglary
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-3         Residential burglary
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1         Arson
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1.1       Aggravated arson
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-2         Possession of explosives or incendiary
                                     devices
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1         Criminal damage to property
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.01      Criminal damage to government property
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1         Unlawful use of weapons
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1       Unlawful possession of firearms and
                                     firearm ammunition
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.3       Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms on
                                     the premises of a school
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1         Mob action
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4          Possession of more than 10 grams of any
                                     substances containing cannabis
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5          Manufacture or delivery of cannabis
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.1        Cannabis trafficking
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 8          Unauthorized production or possession of
                                     Cannabis Sativa plant
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 15.2       Delivery of cannabis on school grounds
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401        Manufacture or delivery of unauthorized
                                     controlled substance
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401.1      Controlled substance trafficking
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 402        Unauthorized possession under the
                                     Controlled Substance Act
 
   (B)   For any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission
of the owner of record, that is used in connection with any custodial
violations not listed in division (A) above, but still results in seizure and
impoundment by the city, the owner of record of the motor vehicle shall be
liable to the city for a Level 2 administrative fee, as provided for in this
chapter, in addition to any towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.03 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility
approved by the city. This chapter shall not apply if the motor vehicle used in
the violation was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the
appropriate police authorities within 24 hours after the theft was discovered
or reasonably should have been discovered.
   (B)   The police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the
motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person,
of the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner’s right to request an
administrative hearing to be conducted under this chapter.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.04 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   At the time of impoundment or within five business days after a motor
vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, the city shall notify
by personal service or by certified mail to the owner of record of the owner’s
right to request a hearing to challenge whether a violation of this chapter has
occurred. The owner of record seeking a hearing must file a written request for
a hearing with the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, no later than five
business days after notice was mailed. The hearing date must be scheduled no
more than ten business days after the request for a hearing has been filed. All
interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   (B)   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in violation of
this chapter, then the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner
of record of the motor vehicle liable to the city for the applicable
administrative fee.
   (C)   If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in such
violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and
for the return of the motor vehicle.
   (D)   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and the hearing
officer shall enter a default order in favor of the city in the amount of the
administrative fee. However, if the owner of record pays such administrative
fee and the motor vehicle is returned to the owner, no default order needs to
be entered if the owner is informed of his or her right to a hearing, in which
case an order of liability shall be deemed to have been made when the city
receives proof of notification.
   (E)   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the Police Department, the impounded motor vehicle shall be
released to the owner of record. The owner of the motor vehicle shall still be
liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
   (F)   If an administrative fee is imposed for a violation of this chapter,
the bond will be forfeited to the city; however if a violation of this chapter
is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be returned to
the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this chapter
shall be held by the city until the hearing officer issues a decision, or, if
there is a judicial review, until the court of jurisdiction issues its orders.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.05 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a
debt due and owing to the city. A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this
chapter shall remain impounded until:
   (A)   The administrative fee is paid to the city and all applicable towing
fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case the owner of record shall be
given possession of the motor vehicle; or
   (B)   A bond in an amount equal to the applicable administrative towing fee
is posted with the Police Department and all applicable towing fees are paid to
the towing agent, at which time the motor vehicle will be released to the owner
or record; or
   (C)   The motor vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the motor vehicle
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.06 MOTOR VEHICLE POSSESSION.
   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within 30 days after the expiration
of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial review of the
city’s action under this chapter, or the time at which a final judgment is
rendered against an owner of record who is in default, may be disposed of as an
unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by law, provided, however, that where
proceedings have been instituted under state and federal drug asset forfeiture
laws, the subject motor vehicle may not be disposed of by the city except as
consistent with those proceedings.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.07 TOWING AGENCY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession of
the motor vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the Police Department
confirming compliance with the foregoing requirements, and retain photocopies
of that documentation in their files for a period of not less than six months
following release of the motor vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made
available to the authorities of the city for inspection and copying, upon their
request, by the towing or storage company. The towing or storage company is
prohibited from releasing any motor vehicle they may town within the city until
and unless they obtain documentation as aforesaid.
   (B)   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a
reasonable fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such
motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that the motor vehicle shall
have remained stored.
   (C)   The fees in this section shall be in addition to any fee levied or
assessed against the owner or operator of the motor vehicle by reason of
violation of any ordinance or statute and any arrest which may have resulted
from such violation.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
§ 79.08 REFUND OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In the event a judgment of “not guilty” is entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction on all underlying charges that could have resulted in the
impoundment of a motor vehicle, then within 30 days of presentation of a
certified copy of the judgment to the city Police Department, any
administrative fees or posted bonds obtained by the city shall be refunded to
the paying party.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-8-16)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   OAK GROVE CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Running at large
   
90.04   Injury to property
   
90.05   Requirements for disposal, enforcement, and penalties for violations
(pet waste disposal)
   
90.06   Manner of keeping
   
90.07   Keeping barking dogs and crying cats
   
90.08   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.09   Keeping wild or vicious animals
   
90.10   Health hazard
   
90.11   Limitation on number of dogs and cat kept
   
90.12   Animals in the city
   
90.13   Trespassing animals
Dogs
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
90.27   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
90.28   Duration of inoculation
   
90.29   Specifications for tag
   
90.30   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
90.31   Restraint of dogs
   
90.32   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper
   
90.33   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
90.34   Obstructing pound maintenance
   
90.35   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
90.36   Impoundment
   
90.37   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.38   City pound designated
   
90.39   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
90.40   Dangerous dog female at large
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Unlawful to maintain
   
90.52   Owner's responsibility
   
90.53   Dog permitted to leave premises
   
90.54   Injunction
   
90.55   Liability of owner or dog attacking or injuring person
   
90.56   Right of entry; inspections
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Animal Control
Ordinance".
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than man, which may be affected by rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the City Council to perform duties as assigned by the Mayor to effectuate this
chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property
of his owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his agent,
to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals and the
public.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Agriculture of the State of Illinois.
   DOG. Whenever "dog" is used in this chapter it shall include any canine,
female as well as a male dog, regardless of age.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or
who keeps or harbors a dog or other animal, or who has it in his care, or who
acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal
to remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
   PET. A domesticated animal, including dogs and cats.
   PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet; feces or
excrement.
   PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other
suitable container, including a plastic bag, securely tied, and discarded in a
refuse container which is regularly emptied by the municipality or some other
refuse collector; or disposal into a system designed to convey domestic sewage
for proper treatment and disposal. Disposal into a stormdrain or stormwater
system is strictly prohibited.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under "restraint" within the meaning of this chapter if
he is controlled by a leash; at "heel" beside a responsible person: within a
vehicle being driven or parked on the streets; or within the property limits of
his owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun.
   SHELTER. As it applies to dogs, shall mean a moisture-proof structure of
suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of
durable material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground
and with the entrance covered by a flexible, windproof material. Such structure
shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide
insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake, or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state (see ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §
24).
(Ord. 873, passed 6-10-19; Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to suffer or permit any animal as defined in this
chapter to run at large in the city, and it shall be the duty of the registered
owner of every such animal to keep the same safely and securely tied or
confined. Any animal, as defined in this chapter, found upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley, parkway or any unenclosed place, shall be deemed running at
large, unless such animal is firmly held on a leash or in an enclosed vehicle.
If an animal is in an unenclosed area on his owner's property, the animal is
not running at large, as defined in this section.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.04 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a dog or cat to
permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or private lands or
premises without the permission of the owner of such premises and break,
bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree or
garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR DISPOSAL, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS
(PET WASTE DISPOSAL).
   (A)   All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly
dispose of their pet's solid waste deposited on any property, public or
private, not owned or possessed by that person.
   (B)   Enforcement. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the
Grayville Police Department.
   (C)   Violations and penalty. Any person who is found to be in violation of
the provisions of this section shall be subject to the fines described in §
90.99.
(Ord. 873, passed 6-10-19; Am. Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.06 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards, or runs. All pens, yards, runs or other structures
wherein any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily
cleaned and kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good
repair, and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.07 KEEPING BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions of complaint. Whenever any person shall complain to the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, yowls or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the city, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.08 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture,
abuse or cruelly beat, strike or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or
neglect, cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury or death to any animal, whether such animal belongs to such person or to
another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the
appropriate Animal Control Facility for proper handling.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse, or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or
upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner. The terms used in this section
shall comply with §
90.02.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.09 KEEPING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his premises any wild or vicious animal as described in this chapter for
display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be constituted to apply to zoological parks, performing
animal exhibitions, or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the State of Illinois.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the city. Any vicious animal which is found off the premises of its
owner may be seized by any police officer or humane officer and upon
establishment to the satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the
vicious character of/said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or
humane officer; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to animals
under the control of a law enforcement or military agency, nor to animals which
are kept for the protection of property, provided that such animals are
restrained by a leash or chain, cage, fence, or other adequate means from
contact with the general public or with persons who enter the premises with the
actual or implied permission of the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care, and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.10 HEALTH HAZARD.
   The Mayor shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to be a nuisance or pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.11 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS KEPT.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the
city for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms "dog" and "cat" shall be construed
as provided in §
90.02.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   Absent special permission granted by the Grayville City Council, it
shall be unlawful for any person or persons residing within the corporate
limits to keep more than five dogs and/or five cats within the city, with the
exception that a litter of pups, a litter of kittens or a portion of a litter
may be kept for a period of time not exceeding five months from birth.
2021 S-10
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for sporting purposes or boarding.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.12 ANIMALS IN THE CITY.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it
shall be unlawful and hereby declared a nuisance for any person to keep any
animal of the species of horse, mule, swine, sheep, goat, cattle, or fowl (with
the exception of chickens, ducks and rabbits as herein provided) within the
city. This prohibition includes skunks, poisonous reptiles, and other wildlife.
      (1)   Chickens, ducks and rabbits shall be allowed under certain
conditions, when properly permitted.
      (2)   The number of allowable chickens or ducks shall be no more than 12.
No roosters shall be allowed.
      (3)   The number of rabbits will not exceed 12.
      (4)   Any structures housing chickens, ducks or rabbits shall be deemed
an accessory structure.
      (5)   Applicants shall register with City Hall to obtain a permit and
have proof of registration on-site. The registration fee is ten dollars and is
good for one year. The permit may be renewed annually, if the site where the
chickens, ducks or rabbits are kept passes an inspection conducted by the
Animal Control Officer, and the annual registration fee is paid.
      (6)   Care for chickens, ducks and rabbits shall follow the provisions
set forth in this chapter.
         (a)   They shall be kept in such a way so as not to cause a nuisance.
         (b)   Their runs, yards, hutches and coops shall be constructed and
maintained reasonably to prevent the standing of water. The structures must be
kept clean of droppings, uneaten or discarded feed, feathers, fur and other
waste with such 1iequency as necessary to ensure the yard, hutch, coop and pen
do not become nuisances.
            1.   Coops, hutches, pens and yards shall be large enough to
provide sufficient space for the animals to move about freely.
            2.   The coop or hutch must be built to provide ventilation, shade,
protection from precipitation, protection from cold weather, and to be secure
from predators, wild birds, and rodents.
            3.   Openings in windows and doors must be covered by wire mesh or
screens to deter predators.
            4.   Access doors must be sized and placed for ease of cleaning.
            5.   The enclosed run must be attached to the coop or hutch, must
surround it. The sides of the run must be made of fencing or wire mesh that
discourages predators.
            6.   The run must be enclosed on all sides, including the top or
roof plane.
            7.   Odors from pens, manure or related substances shall not be
detectable from property lines. Manure must be disposed of. Manure may be
composted. All manure not composted must be removed from property regularly.
         (c)   Licenses for coops and hutches must be obtained and shall meet
the rules of this chapter where applicable.
            1.   Coops, hutches, pens and yards shall be large enough to
provide sufficient space for the animals to move about freely.
            2.   The coop or hutch must be built to provide ventilation, shade,
protection from precipitation, protection from cold weather, and to be secure
from predators, wild birds and rodents.
            3.   Whenever possible, the chicken coop and run or hutch shall be
located in the rear of a residential structure. If the pen, coop and run or
hutch are located in a side or front yard, the permitee must make reasonable
efforts to conceal the pen, coop, run or hutch from plain view from city
streets.
            4.   Access doors must be sized and placed for ease of cleaning.
            5.   The enclosed run must be attached to the coop or hutch, must
surround it. The sides of the run must be made of fencing or wire mesh that
discourages predators .
            6.   Licenses will not be granted to persons who intend to place
the pen, coop, run or hutch on a lot or lots on which an apartment, multi-
family unit, or a condominium building is located.
            7.   The city may deny a license to any person who:
               a.   Owes money to the city; or
               b.   Has, in the last five years prior to the application for a
license under this section, been convicted or pled guilty to any code violation
involving animals, a nuisance, noise or property maintenance.
         8.   If the licensee under this section is found guilty of a violation
of this section or of cruelty to animals, the license will be immediately and
permanently revoked.
         9.   Applications shall be submitted to Grayville City Hall.
         10.   No person shall slaughter any chicken, duck or rabbit within
city limits in an open area that can be viewed by the public.
         11.   No chicken, duck or rabbit shall be permitted to run at large.
All animals shall be kept in a designated hutch, coop or run.
         12.   No cat or dog shall be deemed dangerous, vicious, otherwise
punished for attacking or killing any chicken, duck or rabbit allowed to run
astray, whether by accident or design.
         13.   Any resident currently owning chickens, ducks or rabbits shall
have 30 days from enactment of this section to comply with all the provisions
set forth herein.
         14.   If the licensee is found to be in violation of the standards set
forth in this section, the first offense shall result in a written warning to
comply within 48 hours. The second offense shall cause a fine to be levied in
the amount of $250. A third offense shall cause the license to be immediately
and permanently revoked.
   (B)   Powers of the Police Chief. The Police Chief shall have the authority
to enforce the standards set forth in §
90.11, and shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl, bird, or reptile which is deemed to pose a health hazard to
the general public.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20; Am. Ord. 927, passed 8-8-22)
§ 90.13 TRESPASSING ANIMALS.
   Any animal or fowl found trespassing upon private property may be captured
by the party owning, controlling, or having possession of the ground or
premises, or by the agent or representative of the person, and committed to the
Animal Control Officer to be dealt with as provided in this chapter. Any person
taking up the stray animal or fowl found running at large or trespassing upon
any property, ground, or premises owned, controlled, or in possession of the
person will promptly notify the Animal Control Officer of such capture. It is
unlawful for any such person to fail or refuse to surrender the animal to the
Animal Control Officer upon demand.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
DOGS
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
90.02 unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.26 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.27 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   The inoculation of dogs required by §
90.26 shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his
profession in this state. Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian
shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall
also deliver to the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be
attached to the collar or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to
the fact of the inoculation against rabies.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.28 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
90.27 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which the
vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.29 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
90.27 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.30 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department
or city employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his
certificate issued under the provisions of §
90.27, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled by
him.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.31 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as defined in
§
90.02 (see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-9).
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.32 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such city employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to take up and
impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any
dog found running at large or unlicensed in the city, contrary to any of the
provisions of this subchapter or other regulations of the city.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the city is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
   (D)   Any impounded dog with tags which shall not be redeemed within 14
days, may be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of.
   (E)   If the impounded dog does not have identification tags and is not
redeemed within ten days, it may be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed
of.
   (F)   The City Council may establish a reasonable fee by motion for each day
that a dog is impounded.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.33 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding, and where the owner or keeper of such dog is
disclosed by any tax or license tag worn by it or is otherwise known to the
officer impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable
attempts to contact the owner, informing him of the impounding of his dog, and
shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.34 OBSTRUCTING POUND MAINTENANCE.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the city for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded, or any person who shall resist, hinder or
molest the Animal Control Officer or a police officer while engaged upon the
duties imposed upon them by this subchapter, or any person who shall break into
the dog pound and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first
paid the fees herein specified, or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall
permit any dog to run at large within the corporate limits of the city, upon
conviction of any part of this subchapter shall be fined according to the
provisions of Grayville Code of Ordinances governing fines and penalties, and §
90.99.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.35 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin, shall be immediately taken, impounded and
kept separated from other dogs for ten days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner as required to allow
examination by the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In
case such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care
being taken to preserve the animal in such a manner as to allow examination by
the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the ten days, no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this subchapter;
provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall
have previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed. After
having been notified that his dog has bitten or otherwise injured any person,
the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any circumstances, permit such
animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.36 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this subchapter may employ
any method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any dog found
running at large.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.37 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal impounded under this subchapter may redeem the same
by paying all the costs and charges assessed, if any, that have accrued up to
the time of making the redemption and on paying the same; it shall be the duty
of the authorities to release the animal from the pound and deliver it to its
owner, or certify the release thereof to any county authority having possession
of the animal.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.38 CITY POUND DESIGNATED.
   The City Council shall designate a city pound.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.39 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner, injure any animal,
plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.40 DANGEROUS DOG FEMALE AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
or of any female dog, while in heat, to run at large within the limits of this
city.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed, or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner's family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
enclosure. Such enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
   FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   The Mayor, an Animal Control Officer, or a law enforcement officer
has conducted an investigation and made a finding in writing that the dog is a
vicious dog as defined in division (1)(a) under VICIOUS DOG and, based on that
finding, the Administrator, an Animal Control Officer, or the Director has
declared in writing that the dog is a vicious dog; or
      (2)   The White or Edwards County circuit court has found the dog to be a
vicious dog as defined in division (1)(a) under VICIOUS DOG, and has entered an
order based on that finding.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the city pound.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   (a)   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or
other animal, either on public or private property.
         (b)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals.
         (c)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or
with special equipment.
         (d)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation.
         (e)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a DANGEROUS DOG
upon three separate occasions.
      (2)   No dog shall be deemed "vicious" if it bites, attacks, or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner, or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties. Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
      (3)   If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the dog shall be subject to
enclosure.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.51 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog, unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length, and
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the
dog.
   (B)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Animal Control Officer or
the police, and shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction
by lethal injection.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.52 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
circuit court in the county in which the animal was impounded within ten
working days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious
dog shall not be released to the owner until the Mayor, an Animal Control
Officer, or the Chief of Police approves the enclosure as defined in this
section.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.53 DOG PERMITTED TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   (B)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected.
   (C)   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with this subchapter. It
shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to notify the Mayor of
changes of address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep
the Mayor advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The Mayor
shall provide the police department with a categorized list of such exempted
dogs, and shall promptly notify such department of any address changes reported
to him.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.54 INJUNCTION.
   The Mayor, the City Attorney, or any citizen of the city in which a
dangerous dog or other animal exists may file a complaint to enjoin all persons
from maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and to enjoin the owner
of such dog or other animal from permitting same to leave his premises when not
under control by leash or other recognized control methods. Upon the filing of
a complaint in the White or Edwards County Circuit Court, the court, if
satisfied that the nuisance may exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction,
with bond in such amount as the court may determine, enjoining the defendant
from maintaining such nuisance. If the existence of the nuisance is
established, the owner of such dog or other animal shall be in violation of
this subchapter, and in addition, the court shall enter an order restraining
the owner from maintaining such nuisance and may order that such dog or other
animal be humanely dispatched.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.55 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR DOG ATTACKING OR INJURING PERSON.
   If a dog or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any person
who is peaceably conducting himself in any place where he may lawfully be, the
owner of such dog or other animal is liable in damages to such person for the
full amount of the injury sustained.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.56 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter and making
inspections hereunder, the Mayor, or his authorized representative, or any
officer of the law may enter upon private premises to apprehend a straying dog
or other animal, a dangerous dog or other animal, or a dog or other animal
thought to be infected with rabies. If, after request therefor, the owner of
such dog or other animal shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the
officer, the owner shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall be filled not less
than $50 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 890, passed 7-13-20)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Declaration of policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practices
   
91.04   Exemptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.15   Procedure for filing complaint
   
91.16   Other remedies
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city in the exercise of its
police power for the public safety, public health, and general welfare to
assure equal opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities
regardless of race, color, religion, sex or national origin and, to that end,
to prohibit discrimination in housing by any persons.
(Ord. 510, passed 6-15-92)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION or DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any difference in
treatment based upon race, color, religion, sex, or national origin; or any act
that is unlawful under this chapter.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in
the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION or DWELLING. Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended
for occupancy, as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land
which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of
any such building, mobile home or trailer, structure, or portion thereof or any
real property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for any of the
purposes set forth in this subsection.
   MORTGAGE BROKER.  An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   OPEN MARKET. The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation whether informed through
a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or by any other
advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof, indicating
that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
   OWNER. Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
adventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESMAN. Includes any individual,
qualified by law who, for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting same, lists, sells, purchases, rents, or leases any housing
accommodations, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate such activities; or who advertises or holds himself out as engaged in
such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan, secured by
a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing accommodation; or
who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for
collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he undertakes to
promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation
through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such purpose; or an
individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives and condominiums.
(Ord. 510, passed 6-15-92)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this chapter which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful with the city a person, owner, financial institution, real estate
broker or real estate salesman, or any representative of the above:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   (B)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith; or
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his
race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   (E)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his race, color, religion, or national origin, sex or
place of birth; or
   (F)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination.
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may be subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale,
purchase, rental or lease or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith; or
   (H)   To include directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons or any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by such sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area, or
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in
the city listing or any of the above transactions; or
   (J)   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation; or
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he has
filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter; or
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder; or
   (M) By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter; or
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodations from a
person because of his race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or
place of birth, or
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration,
or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial assistance,
because of the race, color, religion, sex or national origin of such person or
of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants,
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other
service organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in other terms or conditions
of such access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex or national origin.
(Ord. 510, passed 6-15-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A) A religious organization, association, or society or any non-profit
institution or organization operating, supervised, or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, which
limits the sale, rental, or occupancy, or dwellings which it owns or operates
for other than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which
gives preference to such persons, unless membership in such a religion is
restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin.
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members.
   (C)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner provided that:
      (1)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time.
      (2)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any twenty-four month period.
      (3)   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or served on his behalf, under any express or voluntary
agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the
sale or rental or, more than three such single-family houses at any one time.
      (4)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 United
States Code Section 3604 (c) or of
91.03 of this chapter; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (5)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
(Ord. 510, passed 6-15-92) Penalty, see §
91.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.15 PROCEDURE FOR FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this chapter may
file a complaint with the City Attorney within 30 days after the aggrieved
person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice, and in no event more
than 60 days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred. The City Attorney or
his duly authorized representative shall investigate each complaint. Failure to
achieve a resolution acceptable to both parties and compliance with this
chapter shall cause the City Attorney to forward the complaint and his findings
to appropriate state and federal officials.
(Ord. 510, passed 6-15-92)
§ 91.16 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent any persons from exercising any right
or seeking any remedy to which he might otherwise be entitled or from filing
his complaint with any appropriate governmental agency.
(Ord. 510, passed 6-15-92)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Burning of agricultural waste, domicile waste, garbage and refuse
prohibited; exceptions
   
92.03   Burning of landscape waste regulated; other prohibitions
   
92.04   Recreational burning regulated
   
92.05   Burning of unwanted structures, buildings and houses prohibited;
exceptions
Fireworks
   
92.10   Definitions
   
92.11   Possession, sale, or use of fireworks
   
92.12   Permit required for sale
   
92.13   Consumer displays
   
92.14   Adoption of state law by reference
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE.  Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm by crop and livestock production practices including such items as
bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues, but
excluding landscape waste.
   DOMICILE WASTE.  Any refuse generated as a result of domiciliary activities.
The term excludes landscape waste and garbage.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs and other materials accumulated as a result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines or trees.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment designed for the purpose of disposing of the class of refuse
being burned.
   REFUSE. Any discarded matter; or any matter which is to be reduced in
volume, or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to
facilitate its discard, removal or disposal.
(Ord. 616, passed 3-26-01)
§ 92.02 BURNING OF AGRICULTURAL WASTE, DOMICILE WASTE, GARBAGE AND REFUSE
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open burn any agricultural waste,
domicile waste, garbage or refuse within the corporate limits of the city, with
the exception of landscape waste, as defined herein, or to permit any burning
of any such substance.
(Ord. 616, passed 3-26-01)
§ 92.03 BURNING LANDSCAPE WASTE REGULATED; OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn landscape waste after sunset,
except as allowed under §
92.04, below, or before the hour of 7:00 a.m. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use the public streets and alleys of the city for such purpose at any
time. All burning as regulated under this chapter shall be attended to at all
times.
(Ord. 616, passed 3-26-01)
§ 92.04 RECREATIONAL BURNING REGULATED.
   The burning of landscape waste within the corporate limits of the city after
sunset for recreational purposes (cookouts, hot dog roasts) is acceptable, as
long as the following regulations are followed:
   (A)   The fire shall be attended to at all times;
   (B)   Upon completion of the recreational activity the fire shall be
promptly extinguished; and
   (C)   The material used for the fire shall not result in heavy smoke as to
cause a nuisance.
(Ord. 616, passed 3-26-01)
§ 92.05 BURNING OF UNWANTED STRUCTURES, BUILDINGS AND HOUSES PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn unwanted
structures, buildings, and houses within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Exception. The property owner can request the burning of a structure,
building or house by members of the Little Wabash Fire Protection District.
Upon request of the property owner, the Fire Chief of the Little Wabash Fire
Protection District must apply for and obtain a Firefighter’s Training Permit
from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 616, passed 3-26-01)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.10 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that must comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Products Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and
1507, and classified as fireworks UN00336 or UN0337 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. 172.101. CONSUMER FIREWORKS (1.4G
FIREWORKS) do not include UNREGULATED NOVELTY EFFECTS OR FIREWORKS described in
this section, and shall not include DISPLAY FIREWORKS (1.3G FIREWORKS) as
defined above, but CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall include (but shall not be limited
to) the following:
         (a)   STATE FIRE MARSHAL APPROVED CONSUMER FIREWORKS. The approved
CONSUMER FIREWORKS must be ground mounted. They are limited to the following:
            1.   Cones including showers of sparks, fountains, and repeaters
(also known as cakes). Each of the above items must contain no more of a
pyrotechnic compound than allowed by the Office of the State Fire Marshal
regulations in effect as of the date of sale, possession, or use.
            2.   Mines, comets, tubes, shells, fancy florals and parachutes.
These items are firework devices designed to produce low-level aerial effects,
which are propelled into the air by a lift charge. Shells will burst at the
peak of flight to create a display of stars, reports or other effects or leave
a trail of sparks until exhausted. The chemical composition and lift charge
will be the amount allowed by the Office of the State Fire Marshal as of the
date of sale, possession, or use.
         (b)   STATE FIRE MARSHAL PROHIBITED CONSUMER FIREWORKS include the
following:
            1.   Blank cartridges;
            2.   Toy cannons in which explosives are used; helicopters or
planes;
            3.   Sky lanterns, the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same;
            4.   Hand held fireworks, firecrackers, torpedoes, missiles, bottle
rockets, skyrockets, Roman candles, chasers, buzz bombs or other devices of
similar construction;
            5.   Sparkling devices which produce a shower of sparks upon
ignition (except sparklers, defined below) including, but not limited to items
commonly known as “fountains”, “spinners”, “pin wheels”, or similar devices.
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Also known as 1.3G FIREWORKS, means those fireworks
used for professional outdoor displays and classified as fireworks UN0333,
UN0334, or UN0335 by the United State Department of Transportation under 49
C.F.R. 172.101.
      FIREWORKS. Any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation; FIREWORKS shall include CONSUMER FIREWORKS, DISPLAY
FIREWORKS, and UNREGULATED NOVELTY EFFECTS OR FIREWORKS as hereinafter
described.
      UNREGULATED NOVELTY EFFECTS OR FIREWORKS. Snake or glow worm pellets,
smoke devices, trick noisemakers known as party poppers, booby traps, snappers,
trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms; sparklers, toy
pistols, toy guns, or other similar devices and toy pistol paper or plastic
caps, as hereinafter specifically defined:
         (a)   SNAKES, GLOW WORM PELLETS. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic
composition that produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands
in length as the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric
thiocyanate.
         (b)   SMOKE DEVICES. Tube or skewer containing pyrotechnic composition
that upon ignition produces white or colored smoke as a primary effect.
         (c)   TRICK NOISEMAKER. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user; these devices include:
            1.   PARTY POPPER. Small plastic or paper items containing not more
than 16 mg of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A string
protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper streamers
and producing a small report.
            2.   BOOBY TRAP. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
            3.   SNAPPER. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped,
the devices explodes, producing a small report.
            4.   TRICK MATCH. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
            5.   CIGARETTE LOAD. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
            6.   AUTO BURGLAR ALARM. Tube which contains pyrotechnic
composition that produces a loud whistle and/or smoke when ignited. A small
quantity of explosive, not exceeding 50 mg may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
         (d)   SPARKLERS. A wire or stick coated with pyrotechnic composition
which shall not exceed 100 grams per item that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition.
         (e)   TOY PISTOLS, TOY CANES, TOY GUNS, AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES.
Devices in which paper or plastic cups containing twenty-five-hundredths grains
(16 mg) or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
the explosive.
         (f)   TOY PISTOL PAPER OR PLASTIC CAPS. Containing less than twenty
hundredths grains (13 mg) of explosive mixture.
   (B)   Any term used within this subchapter not otherwise defined herein
shall have the same meaning as provided within the Illinois Pyrotechnic Use Act
(42 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq).
(Ord. 943, passed 6-26-23)
§ 92.11 POSSESSION, SALE, OR USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   If the possession, use, or sale of a firework is not authorized within
this subchapter, then it is prohibited; and if authorized, such possession,
use, or sale is restricted as provided within this subchapter.
   (B)   No person may sell or hold for sale or distribute or offer for sale or
possess or purchase or discharge any consumer fireworks within the City of
Grayville, without first strictly complying with the provisions of the Illinois
Pyrotechnic Use Act, and without first complying with the provisions of this
subchapter; provided that in the event of a conflict between said Illinois
Pyrotechnic Use Act and this subchapter, the more restrictive provision shall
control. Only such consumer fireworks as are authorized by this subchapter and
the Illinois State Fire Marshal’s Office pursuant to the Illinois Pyrotechnic
Use Act and as are authorized and approved by the Fire Chief of the Little
Wabash Fire Protection District shall be permitted for sale, distribution, or
possession within the city.
   (C)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   Fireworks shall not be sold to nor purchased by minors, except that
a minor under the immediate supervision of a responsible adult may purchase
unregulated or novelty effects fireworks.
      (2)   No firework shall be discharged upon any public street, alley,
parking lot, sidewalk or public way, upon any property owned by the United
States, the State of Illinois or other state or any municipality or other
political subdivision or agency thereof, or upon any property, including
privately owned property, except a display subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (3)   Fireworks shall be sold only from a permanent non-residential
structure. In no event shall fireworks be sold from a motor vehicle, any
temporary structure, or a private residence.
(Ord. 943, passed 6-26-23)
§ 92.12 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SALE.
   (A)   No person may sell, possess for sale, distribute or offer for sale any
fireworks, except unregulated novelty effects fireworks, in the city unless
such person has first obtained a permit to sell fireworks pursuant to this
subchapter. A permit to sell fireworks shall be issued only for consumer
fireworks as defined within § 92.10 above; no permit to sell fireworks shall be
issued for display fireworks (1.3G fireworks) as defined within the Illinois
Pyrotechnic Use Act, as sales of display fireworks are prohibited. A separate
fireworks permit to sell fireworks shall be required for each location where
consumer fireworks are sold, held for sale, distributed or offered for sale.
   (B)   An application for a permit to sell consumer fireworks under this
subchapter shall pay to the city a fee in the amount of $10 per location, which
fee shall not be refundable; each permit to sell consumer fireworks shall be
issued for not longer than one year and shall in all events expire on April 30
following the date of issuance. A permit to sell consumer fireworks shall be
issued within 15 days from receipt of a proper application if the applicant and
location are in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and with
state and federal law.
   (C)   Any person who desires to obtain a permit to sell consumer fireworks
shall file a written application with the City Clerk. The application shall
include the applicant’s name, permanent business address (which must include a
street address), residence address of the applicant (if the applicant is a
corporation, the residence address of its officers), business telephone
numbers, the location at which the applicant intends to do business, a copy of
the applicant’s certificate of registration under the Illinois Retailer’s
Occupation Tax Act, a complete inventory and list of all fireworks to be sold
or offered for sale, and a certificate of insurance evidencing a general
liability policy in the amount of not less than $1,000,000. In addition, the
application shall provide a copy of a written lease or other written evidence
from the owner of the location where the applicant proposes to sell, indicating
permission of the owner to use the location. Each permit to sell consumer
fireworks issued hereunder shall clearly designate that it is a permit to sell
consumer fireworks. Unless the applicant has also complied with each of the
provisions of the Illinois Pyrotechnic Use Act, no person shall be issued a
permit to sell consumer fireworks.
   (D)   Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by the Mayor
for good cause after notice and opportunity to be heard. The Mayor shall afford
to the permit holder an opportunity to present evidence bearing upon the
question of revocation or suspension of the license. Cause for revocation or
suspension shall include the violation of any provisions of this subchapter or
of any federal law or statute of the State of Illinois by the permit holder or
by any employee or agent of the permit holder or that the permit holder has
made a false statement on any application for permit under this subchapter.
(Ord. 943, passed 6-26-23)
§ 92.13 CONSUMER DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Each consumer display shall be handled by a competent individual who
has received training from a consumer fireworks training class approved by the
Office of the State Fire Marshal. Applications for consumer display permits
shall be made to the Office of the State Fire Marshal, pursuant to the
provisions of 425 ILCS 35/2.2 or pursuant to division (B) of this section, set
forth below. Consumer display permits are non-transferrable.
   (B)   All consumer displays of fireworks must be in compliance with the
provisions of Section 2.2 of the Illinois Pyrotechnic Use Act, 425 ILCS 35/2.2,
including the requirement that applications for consumer display permits shall
be made in writing at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display,
unless agreed to otherwise by the Mayor and the Chief of the Little Wabash Fire
Protection District. After a permit has been granted, sales, possession, use,
and distribution of consumer fireworks display shall be lawful for that purpose
only. No permit granted pursuant to the state statutes shall be transferrable.
The city may conduct a criminal background check of the applicant as a
condition of the issuing of a permit for consumer displays.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued only after inspection of the display site by
the Fire Chief of the Little Wabash Fire Protection District, or his or her
designee, to determine that the display is in full compliance with the rules
adopted by the State Fire Marshal.
   (D)   The application for a permit to display consumer fireworks shall
contain identifying information for the person sponsoring the display, the
exact location of the display, proof that the location has been authorized in
writing by the owner of the location property, the exact date and time of the
display, and identifying information for the consumer operator handling the
display who shall have received training from a consumer fireworks training
class approved by the State Fire Marshal and who shall have a valid training
certification card to possess consumer fireworks.
   (E)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance
from an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois
evidencing a minimum of $1,000,000 in liability coverage.
   (F)   The application shall be subject to approval by the Mayor.
   (G)   The applicant shall also be subject to a criminal background check as
a condition of issuing a permit.
   (H)   After the permit has been granted, the possession, use, and display of
consumer fireworks shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted
hereunder shall be transferrable.
   (I)   Applicant shall pay a fee in the amount of $25.
   (J)   Provided that the application requirements have been met by the
applicant, a permit to display consumer fireworks shall be issued by the Mayor.
(Ord. 943, passed 6-26-23)
§ 92.14 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations, as may from time to time be amended, for the
administration of the Illinois Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.)
by the State Fire Marshal, including, but not limited to, National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 guidelines for outdoor displays, NFPA 1126
guidelines for proximate audience displays, audience proximity distances for
consumer display fireworks, and the list of approved consumer fireworks are
adopted herein by reference.
(Ord. 943, passed 6-26-23)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person that violates §§
92.10 through
92.14 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200 for each violation;
each consumer firework in the possession of the person shall constitute a
separate violation, and each day that any firework is sold or offered for sale
without a permit or each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.10 through
92.14 shall also be subject to an injunction and to all other remedies and
penalties of §§
92.10 through
92.14 and of the Illinois Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.) in
addition to the imposition of a fine.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted (including a no contest or supervision
plea) of any violation of §§
92.10 through
92.14 by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be ineligible to receive a
permit under §§ 92.10 through 92.14 for a period of two years from the date of
the conviction.
(Ord. 943, passed 6-26-23)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Hauling of waste materials
   
93.02   Dumping
   
93.03   Storage of refuse; seasonal vehicles
   
93.04   Distribution of advertising material
Weeds
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Responsibility of owner to maintain property; procedure
   
93.22   Notice of lien
   
93.23   Release of lien
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 HAULING OF WASTE MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, in person or by
his or its agent, employee, or servant, to use any vehicle to haul any kind of
dirt, rubbish, waste articles, things or substance, whether liquid or solid,
which might be subject to spillage, unless such vehicle is covered to prevent
any part of its load from spilling or dropping at all times while such vehicle
is in motion on any street or alley in the municipality. Provided, however,
that the requirements herein for covering such vehicles shall not apply to
vehicles carrying brush cuttings, tree trimmings, branches, logs, and similar
waste material, if such matter is securely lashed to such vehicle to prevent
spilling or dropping as aforesaid.
(Ord. 432, passed 5-6-85) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DUMPING.
   (A)   No person shall haul, transport, convey, or cause to be hauled,
transported, or conveyed, any trash, ashes, rubbish, refuse, junk, litter as
defined herein, or other discarded or waste materials, and deposit, place, or
dump the materials on any public property, street, or thoroughfare, or on any
privately owned property, except on public dumps established or designated by
the City Council.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the dumping or
depositing of dirt, sand, gravel, concrete rubble, or similar materials. These
substances shall be free of all trash, rubbish, or refuse materials of all
kinds, and can be dumped or deposited on any lot either publicly or privately
owned, when a permit is requested by the owner for the purpose of elevating the
grade of the lot or the unimproved part of the lot.
(Ord. 432, passed 5-6-85) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 STORAGE OF REFUSE; SEASONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared that all inoperable vehicles, whether on
public or private property and in view of the general public, are a nuisance.
Any person who fails to obey a notice received from the City of Grayville which
states that such person is to repair, restore or dispose of any inoperable
motor vehicles under his or her control, shall be subject to the fines that may
be levied pursuant to §
93.99. Additionally, if the vehicle is not removed, repaired, or restored to
operating condition within seven days from the issuance ofthe notice by the
City of Grayville, any such inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof may be
removed by City of Grayville law enforcement officers, or agents acting on
their behalf. The offending vehicle owner shall have 14 days from the date of
the removal, to appeal the notice of violation and removal. Such appeal shall
be presented to the Grayville City Council, at a regularly scheduled meeting of
its Mayor and Commissioners. Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor
vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, to operable historic
vehicles over 25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place
of business licensed to engage in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
      (2)   As used in this section, "inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least 14 days or a greater period, the
engine, wheels or parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels,
other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that the
vehicle is incapable ofbeing driven under its own motor power. "Inoperable
motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle with has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to
perform ordinary service or repair operations.
   (B)   Unsheltered storage in view of the public of any other vehicles,
machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property ofany kind which
is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for
a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junk yards) within the
corporate limits of this city, is also hereby declared to be a nuisance and
dangerous to the public safety.
   (C)   The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within
the corporate limits of this city upon which such storage is made, and also the
owner, owners, and/or lessees of materials involved in such storage (all of
whom are hereinafter referred to collectively as "owners") shall jointly and
severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of the material into
completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes,
if within the corporate limits ofthe city, or otherwise to remove it to a
designated disposal location without the corporate limits.
   (D)   In the interest of public safety and maximum maintenance, no person,
firm, agency or organization, shall store any vehicle, recreational vehicle,
boat trailer, or other non-motorized vehicles on any public street or alley
within the city limits. Storage shall be defIned as the placing or parking of
such vehicles upon the public streets or alleys when such vehicle is not used
and moved at least once during any given 72-hour period. It is the intent of
this section to prevent the storage of such vehicles upon the public ways and
streets of the city.
(Ord. 432, passed 5-6-85; Am. Ord. 888, passed 5-26-20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATERIAL.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any handbill in or upon any public place or
distribute the same therein against the will of the intended receiver.
Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for any
person to hand out or distribute without charge to a receiver any handbill to
any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any handbill in or
upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill
directly to the occupant of such private premises. Provided, however, that in
case of private premises which are not posted against the receiving of
handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by anyone upon
such premises not to do so may securely place any such handbill in such a
manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements upon
any public place or private premises, except mailboxes may not be so used when
prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution
upon private premises only of subscription newspapers, except that subscription
newspapers shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
   (D)   No person shall attempt to distribute advertising matter or
unsolicited and non-subscribed newspapers to the occupants of vehicles being
operated on a public way. No person shall place advertising matter on a vehicle
parked on a public right-of-way unless the owner or occupant of the vehicle is
willing to accept it.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit advertising,
but only the manner in which it is distributed. Advertising matter shall not
only mean commercial, but campaign buttons, bumper stickers, promotions and
product samples.
(Ord. 432, passed 5-6-85) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEEDS
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a WEED shall be defined as any useless,
troublesome, or noxious plant, especially one that grows profusely, to the
exclusion of desired plant life, including, but not limited to, the following:
Burdock, ragweed (giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cockleburr, jimson, blue
vervain, common milk weed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough
pigweed, lambsquarter, wild lettuce, curled dock, smart weeds (all varieties),
poison hemlock, and wild hemp.
(Ord. 194, passed 8-18-58; Am. Ord. 597, passed 10-11-99)
§ 93.21 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be illegal for the owners of real estate to
refuse or neglect to cut weeds and grass when such weeds and grass shall have
reached a height in excess of eight inches.
   (B)   Every owner of real estate within this municipality shall cut weeds
and grass on his property at all such times as may be necessary so that such
weeds and grass shall not exceed eight inches in height, and if said owner
neglects or refuses to cut weeds or grass so that such weeds or grass shall
exceed eight inches in height, this municipality may cut the weeds and grass,
or authorize some person to cut the weeds and grass on behalf of the
municipality.
(Ord. 194, passed 8-18-58; Am. Ord. 597, passed 10-11-99) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 NOTICE OF LIEN.
   (A)   If weeds and/or grass are cut by this municipality or by someone
directed to cut them on behalf of the municipality, a notice of lien of the
cost and expense thereof incurred by this municipality shall be recorded in the
manner set forth in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The municipality or the person performing the service by authority of
this municipality, in its or his own name, may file notice of lien in the
Office of the Recorder of Deeds in the county in which the real estate is
located, or in the office of the Registrar of Titles of such county if the real
estate affected is registered under the Torrens System. The notice of lien
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof,
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service, and
2021 S-10
      (3)   The date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the
municipality, and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Ord. 194, passed 8-18-58; Am. Ord. 597, passed 10-11-99)
§ 93.23 RELEASE OF LIEN.
   Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been filed,
the lien shall be released by the municipality or person in whose name the lien
has been filed, and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner as
filing notice of the lien.
(Ord. 194, passed 8-18-58; Am. Ord. 597, passed 10-11-99)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not less than $150, nor more than
$500, for each offense.
   (B)   Persons who violate §§
93.01 through
93.04, 93.17 and 93.18 are subject to the penalties set out in this section.
      (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
93.01 through
93.04, and 93.17 and 93.18, not including §
93.03(A), shall be guilty of violations of this chapter, and shall be fined not
less than $150 nor more than $750.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the city may
take whatever action may be necessary to abate the nuisance, and bill the
person guilty of creating such nuisance, including vehicle removal, per the
provisions of §
93.03.
      (3)   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to and not
in lieu of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties and liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law.
   (C)   Any person violating §
93.03(A) by allowing the nuisance to exist or failing to abate the nuisance,
after appropriate notice to be delivered by police, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $150 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
such nuisance is permitted to exist.
(Ord. 432, passed 5-6-85; Am. Ord. 597, passed 10-11-99; Am. Ord. 888, passed
5-26-20)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Duty to maintain property between streets and sidewalks
   
94.02   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks
   
94.03   Disturbing city property prohibited
   
94.04   Stop bumpers required for parking lots
   
94.05   Noncompliance
Street Obstructions and Improvements
   
94.15   Disturbing or digging in streets; permit required
   
94.16   Restoration of streets
   
94.17   Safety barricades required
   
94.18   Obstructing public way; permit required
   
94.19   Depositing refuse on public way
Trees, Shrubbery and Other Flora
   
94.30   Planting or disturbing trees, shrubbery or flora; permit required
   
94.31   Attaching signs
   
94.32   Owners of abutting property to maintain
   
94.33   Installing culverts in ditches located along street and alley rights-
of-way
Encroachments on Public Right-of-Way
   
94.45   Definitions
   
94.46   Encroachment prohibited
Numbering of Streets
   
94.60   Adoption of Philadelphia plan
   
94.61   North and south streets designated
   
94.62   East and west streets designated
   
94.63   Distinguishing building and spaces
   
94.64   Display of numbers in plain view
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DUTY TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY BETWEEN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   The owners of abutting property are responsible for the care and maintenance
of public land between sidewalks and streets. It shall be their responsibility
to mow, rake, remove litter and destroy weeds, in order to maintain a
reasonable attractive appearance and ensure the public health and safety.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS.
   Owners of land are responsible for snow and ice removal from abutting
sidewalks. Snow and ice shall be removed in a timely manner so as not to impair
the safety and mobility of users of such sidewalks.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 DISTURBING CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tamper with, destroy, injure, remove or deface city
property, such as streets, alleys, sidewalks, handrails, curbs, pipe
structures, signs and signposts.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 STOP BUMPERS REQUIRED FOR PARKING LOTS.
   Any person, business or corporation possessing a parking lot adjacent to a
sidewalk shall provide a stop bumper or barricade, which will prevent cars,
trucks, and the like, from projecting across sidewalk.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets and Alleys to report
to the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements any non-compliance with
this chapter. The Commissioner shall inspect the alleged violation and issue a
written opinion stating either concurrence or disagreement with the report. The
report shall be signed by the Commissioner and transmitted to the
Superintendent. Upon written concurrence by the Commissioner, the
Superintendent shall notify the responsible parties by registered mail. If
remedial action has not begun within ten days, the Superintendent may take
action to correct the violation. A statement of expenses for such work shall be
prepared and mailed to the owners of record of the property affected. Should
the owners fail to pay such expenses within 60 days of such mailing, action may
be brought against the owner for the expenses and the costs of the action,
including reasonable attorney fees and costs of collection.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83)
STREET OBSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 94.15 DISTURBING OR DIGGING IN STREETS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person, company or corporation must obtain a written permit signed by
the Street and Alley Commissioner or the Superintendent of Streets and Alleys
prior to digging into or disturbing the surface and or bed of any sidewalk,
street, alley or other public way which has either been graveled or paved.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 RESTORATION OF STREETS.
   Any person, company or corporation having dug into or disturbing the surface
and or bed of any sidewalk, street, alley or other public way which has either
been graveled or paved, shall fully restore such public way to its pre-existing
condition before it was so disturbed, at his own expense. If necessary, such
restoration shall continue from time to time until the surface and bed have
settled and deterioration caused by the disturbance has ceased.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17 SAFETY BARRICADE REQUIRED.
   Any person, company or corporation taking such actions as are set forth in §
94.16, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or
vehicle. The barricades shall be protected by suitable lights during darkness.
Such barricades shall be maintained throughout the restoration of the public
way as long as there is any effect which might be injurious to persons or
vehicles.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAY; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person, company or corporation shall obtain a written permit signed by
the Street and Alley Commissioner or the Superintendent of Streets and Alleys
prior to obstructing any sidewalk, street, alley or other public way, except as
necessary for compliance with §
94.17. Such permit shall state definite dates for the erection and the removal
of the obstruction.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.19 DEPOSITING REFUSE ON PUBLIC WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any manner on any
sidewalk, street, alley or other public way leaves, grass, ashes, paper,
refuse, dirt, garbage, brush, or any other material which may cause injury to
any person or which may be harmful to any other person's property, the
pavement, sewers or public property.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
TREES, SHRUBBERY AND OTHER FLORA
§ 94.30 PLANTING OR DISTURBING TREES, SHRUBBERY OR FLORA; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, company or corporation shall obtain a written permit from
the Street and Alley Commissioner or the Superintendent of Streets and Alleys
prior to planting any shrubbery, trees or any other flora upon public property,
including land between the property line of the applicant and the public
street. Permits must also be obtained before such person, company or
corporation shall remove or cause irreparable harm to any shrubbery, trees or
other flora upon public property.
   (B)   If any shrubbery, trees or flora is planted upon public property after
obtaining the required permit, the cost of trimming and removing of such items
shall be the exclusive responsibility of the landowner whose property adjoins
the public property on which the tree, shrubbery or flora is located.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83; Am. Ord. 909, passed 2-22-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31 ATTACHING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any signs, advertisements or
notices to any shrubbery, tree or other flora upon any public property.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.32 OWNERS OF ABUTTING PROPERTY TO MAINTAIN.
   The owners of abutting property are responsible for the care and maintenance
of public land between the property line of the property owner and the public
street. It shall be their responsibility to mow, rake, remove litter and
destroy weeds, in order to maintain a reasonable attractiveness and ensure the
public health and safety.
(Ord. 412, passed 2-21-83; Am. Ord. 568, passed 10-14-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.33 INSTALLING CULVERTS IN DITCHES LOCATED ALONG STREET AND ALLEY RIGHTS-
OF-WAY.
   Any person, company, corporation or entity owning real estate within the
corporate limits of the city shall obtain a written permit from the Streets and
Alleys Commissioner or the Superintendent of Streets and Alleys prior to
installing a culvert within any ditch running along platted streets and/or
alleys within the city. The culvert must be of such material and diameter as to
effectively handle the flow of water running through it, consistent with the
width and depth of the ditch in which the culvert is installed.
(Ord. 936, passed 3-27-23)
ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 94.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. The area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within the city, which by concurrence in
the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state to
enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign (excluding certain signs located
over sidewalks) or any other structure or object of any kind (with the
exception of utilities and public road signs), which is placed, located or
maintained, in, on, under or over any portion of the project right-of-way or
the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has been
established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee or sign advertising
activity on the property, or similar overhanging structure supported from a
building immediately adjacent to the limits of the platted street where there
is no sidewalk extending to the building line and which does not impair the
free and safe flow of pedestrian traffic or traffic on the highway. The
permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be construed as being
applicable to those signs supported by poles constructed outside the project
right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the city and the state which will be free of
encroachments except as herein defined.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by permanent easement
and temporary easement during the time the easement is in effect.
(Ord. 391-C, passed 12-17-79; Am. Ord. 665, passed 3-22-04)
§ 94.46 ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment
(defined in §
94.45), except as provided in division (C) below, within the limits of the
project right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right- of-way
limits have been established.
   (B)   The project right-of-way limits have been established and shown in the
plans.
   (C)   No revocable permits have been issued by the state for the temporary
retention of permissible encroachments.
   (D)   This subchapter is intended to be and shall be in addition to all
other ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachment and shall not
be construed as rescinding or repealing any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless it is in direct conflict therewith.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this subchapter shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense, and separate
offense shall be deemed committed each and every day during which a violation
continues or exists.
(Ord. 391-C, passed 12-17-79; Am. Ord. 665, passed 3-22-04) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUMBERING OF STREETS
§ 94.60 ADOPTION OF PHILADELPHIA PLAN.
   The Philadelphia plan of numbering houses by the decimal system shall be,
and the same is hereby adopted in the city; each space of ground allotted to a
single number shall be 25 feet front upon any street; one hundred numbers shall
be allotted to each square or block; on vacant lots measurements shall be taken
and the numbers run as though the space were occupied by buildings. For the
purpose of numbering the residences, business houses, and other buildings,
North Street shall be the base or dividing line for all streets running north
and south, and Court Street shall be the use or dividing line for all streets
running east and west.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-7-52)
§ 94.61 NORTH AND SOUTH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   The numbering on streets running north and south shall commence at the
intersection of such street with North Street; where such streets do not
intersect North Street, they will be numbered to correspond with the numbering
of the squares or blocks which lie parallel with the block to be numbered, and
which are on streets that do intersect North Street. The first spaces on the
east side of the street to be numbered both north and south of the intersection
of North Street, shall be numbered 101; the spaces on the opposite or west side
of the streets at the points so designated shall be numbered 102, continuing
both north and south from the points so designated, numbering the spaces
alternately in numerical order, with the even numbers on the west side of the
street and the odd numbers on the east side of the street, until the next
street crossing is reached; then commencing at the first space on the east side
of the street with number 201, and the first space on the opposite or west side
of the street with the number 202, so continuing as before until the next
street crossing of each street, until the terminal of the street or boundary of
the city is reached.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-7-52)
§ 94.62 EAST AND WEST STREETS DESIGNATED.
   The numbering on the streets running east and west shall commence at the
intersection of such street with Court Street; where such streets do not
intersect Court Street, they shall be numbered to correspond with the numbering
of the squares or blocks which lie parallel with the block to be numbered and
which are on streets that do intersect Court Street; the first space on the
south side of the street to be numbered both east and west of the intersection
of Court Street shall be numbered 101; the spaces on the opposite or north side
of the street at the points designated shall be numbered 102; continuing both
east and west from the points so designated, numbering the spaces alternating
in numerical order with the even numbers on the north side of the street, and
the odd numbers on the south side of the streets until next street crossing is
reached; then commencing with the first space on the south side of the street
with No. 201, and the first space on the opposite or north side of the street
with Number 202, so continuing as before until the next street crossing is
reached; then commencing at the first space on the south side of the street
with number 201; adding 100 to the serial at the crossing of each street, until
the terminal of the street or the boundary of the city is reached.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-7-52)
§ 94.63 DISTINGUISHING BUILDING AND SPACES.
   In order to distinguish the buildings or spaces on streets running north and
south, which lie north of North Street from the buildings and spaces which lie
south of North Street, the word north, or south, as the case may be shall be
prefixed to the name of the street and in order to distinguish the numbers
lying east and west of Court Street the word east or west as the case may be
shall be prefixed to the number.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-7-52)
§ 94.64 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS IN PLAIN VIEW.
   All buildings heretofore erected, and all hereafter erected, shall be
numbered by the owner or occupant thereof, in a conspicuous place thereon, on
the line of the street the building faces, in plain view of the sidewalk, with
the correct number, according to the plans described here.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-7-52) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: OAK GROVE CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Special exceptions clauses
   
95.03   General rules
   
95.04   Flower regulations
   
95.05   Lots and lot owners
   
95.06   Correction of errors
   
95.07   Descent of titles
   
95.08   Interments
   
95.09   Plants and shrubs
   
95.10   Enforcement of rules
   
95.11   Specifications for memorial work
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. A designated area set aside and controlled by the city for the
burial of human remains by earth interment, by interment in a mausoleum, crypt
or urn.
   CEMETERY OFFICE. Grayville City Hall.
   CITY. The City of Grayville.
   DEED OF CONVEYANCE. The certificate of ownership issued by the city and
delivered to the original purchaser of a cemetery plot or lot showing ownership
thereof.
   GRASS MARKER. A memorial flush with the ground.
   INTERMENT. The permanent disposition of human remains by burial, entombment,
or inurnment after cremation.
   LOT. Numbered divisions as shown on the record plat which consists of one or
more plots.
   LOT MARKER. Any means or device used, erected or implanted by cemetery
personnel to indicate the corners of a plot or lot.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker, tablet, headstone, private mausoleum or tomb
for family or individual use, tombstone, urn and crypt and niche place.
   MONUMENT. A tombstone or memorial of granite or marble which shall extend
above the surface of the ground.
   PLOT. A space of sufficient size to accommodate one adult. Interments are
approximately three by eight feet.
   SEXTON. The person or persons duly appointed by the city for the purpose of
conducting and administering the cemetery and anyone so designated by the city.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.02 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS CLAUSES.
   (A)   Special cases may arise in which the literal enforcement of a rule may
impose unnecessary hardship. The cemetery sexton, therefore, reserves the right
to make exceptions, suspensions, or modifications to any of these rules and
regulations, without notice, and such temporary exception, suspension or
modification shall in no way be construed as affecting the general application
of such rules and regulations.
   (B)   The city hereby expressly reserves the right to adopt additional rules
and regulations or to amend, alter or repeal any rule, regulation, article,
section, paragraph or sentence in these rules and regulations at any time.
Sufficient notice will be given by the city of any change that will create
expense, hardship, or inconvenience to lot owners or other individuals having
business with the cemetery.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.03 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   The cemetery office will be open for burials from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00
p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays.
   (B)   Cemetery employees are not permitted to perform work for a lot owner
outside their regular responsibilities unless authorized to do so by the
cemetery sexton for good cause.
   (C)   All fees or charges for services shall be paid at the cemetery office.
Such payment shall be made to the city or to a cemetery employee authorized to
receive such fees or charges.
   (D)   Pedestrians within the cemetery shall use only the avenues, roads and
indicated walkways.
   (E)   Persons visiting the cemetery or attending funerals are prohibited
from picking flowers, wild or cultivated, breaking or injuring any tree, shrub,
or plant, or from writing upon, defacing or injuring any memorials, fence, or
other structure within the cemetery grounds.
   (F)   All vehicles must be kept under complete control at all times. When
meeting a funeral procession they must stop until the procession passes. They
must not pass a funeral procession going the same direction. Mufflers must not
be opened nor the horn sounded within the cemetery.
   (G)   The following things are prohibited:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in the cemetery at excessive
speed. A speed greater than 15 m.p.h. shall be considered excessive.
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in any part of the cemetery not
designated an avenue or road.
      (3)   The operation or parking of a motor vehicle within the cemetery on
any avenue or road in such a manner as to prevent another vehicle from passing.
      (4)   Making a complete or partial reverse turn of any motor car or
vehicle on any road or drive way within the cemetery.
      (5)   Loud or boisterous conduct.
      (6)   Idling or loafing within the cemetery or buildings.
      (7)   Bringing into and consuming while in the cemetery any food or
beverage.
      (8)   Peddling or soliciting the sale of any commodity.
      (9)   Placing of signs, notices or advertisement of any kind within the
cemetery.
      (10)   Bringing dogs into the cemetery or any of its buildings.
Exceptions may be made for specially trained dogs used by the handicapped.
      (11)   The presence of children under the age of 15 years unless
accompanied by a responsible adult.
      (12)   Any conduct unbecoming a sacred place.
   (H)   It is of the utmost importance that there should be strict observance
of the properties in the cemetery. Hence, all persons within the cemetery
should avoid conduct unbecoming a sacred place.
   (I)   The placing of boxes, shells, toys, metal designs, ornaments, chairs,
settees, vases and similar articles, upon plots will not be permitted, as they
hinder maintenance efforts and present a safety hazard. Items left on the
ground (during mowing season) other than flowers in approved containers will be
removed by cemetery employees. The cemetery sexton has the right to remove any
and all items that may hinder maintenance efforts and present a safety hazard.
      (1)   Approved containers consist of: Vases attached to the monument,
hanging baskets, and monument saddles.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.04 FLOWER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No floral decorations will be allowed on the ground during mowing
season (April 1 through November 1) except for the Thursday preceding the
nationally recognized Memorial Day.
   (B)   Decorations are allowed in vases permanently attached to the monument,
hanging baskets, and monument saddles. One shepherd staff per single plot lot
is allowed, a maximum of two shepherd staffs are allowed for multiple plot
lots.
   (C)   All shepherds staff not by monuments or without flowers on them are
subject to removal.
   (D)   Memorial Day decorations that remain on the ground will be moved after
ten calendar days.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.05 LOTS AND LOT OWNERS.
   (A)   Cemetery lots shall be purchased at the cemetery office. The cemetery
sexton or his designated representative is authorized to conduct the sale of
such lots.
   (B)   After the payment of the purchase price, the city will issue a deed of
conveyance describing the purchased lot.
   (C)   No burial will be allowed on such lot until the purchase price is paid
in full.
   (D)   The cemetery is owned and maintained by the city. Therefore, the city
retains the right to enlarge, reduce, re-plat or change the boundaries or
grading of the cemetery, or a section or sections, from time to time, including
the right to modify or change the locations of roads, drives, or walks, or any
part thereof. The city retains the right to lay, maintain and operate, or alter
or change pipelines or gutters for sprinkling system, drainage, etc., as well
as is the right to use cemetery property not sold to individual plot owners for
cemetery purposes, including interment of the dead, or for anything necessary,
incidental or convenient thereto. The city reserves to itself and to those
lawfully entitled thereto a perpetual right of ingress and egress over plots
and lots for the purpose of passing to and from other plots and lots.
   (E)   Descriptions of lots will be in accordance with the cemetery plats
which are kept on file in the sexton's office and at Grayville City Hall.
   (F)   The city will provide all reasonable precautions to protect plot and
lot owners, and the property rights of plot owners, within the cemetery from
loss or damage. However, the city disclaims all responsibility for loss or
damage from causes beyond its control. For example, damage caused by the
elements, an act of God (ground cave ins), common enemy, thieves, vandals,
strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions, invasions, insurrections,
riots, or order of any military or civil authority, whether the damage be
direct or collateral. Damages caused by private businesses such as monument or
vault companies shall be the responsibility of said company; the city shall be
held harmless in such situations.
   (G)   The deed of conveyance of these rules and regulations and any
amendments thereto constitute the sole agreement between the city and the lot
owner. The statement of any employee or agent, unless confirmed in writing by
the sexton, shall in no way bind the city. All plots and lots conveyed by deed
and owners of plots are subject to these rules and regulations.
   (H)   The general care assumed by the cemetery shall in no case mean the
maintenance, repair or replacement of any memorial, tomb, or mausoleum placed
or erected upon lots; nor the doing of any special or unusual work in the
cemetery. Nor does it mean the reconstruction of any marble or granite work on
any section or lot, or any portion of portions thereof in the cemetery, caused
by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots, or by the order of any military or civil authority,
whether the damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.06 CORRECTION OF ERRORS.
   The city reserves, and shall have, the right to correct any errors that may
be made by it either in making interments, disinterments or removals, or the
description, transfer or conveyance of any interment property, either by
cancelling such conveyance and substituting any conveyance in lieu thereof
other interment property of equal value and similar location as far as
possible, or as may be selected by the cemetery sexton, or, in the sole
discretion of the cemetery sexton, by refunding the amount of money paid on
account of said purchase. In the event such error shall involve the interment
of the remains of any person in such property, the city reserves, and shall
have the right to remove or transfer such remains so interred to such other
property of equal value and similar location as may be substituted and conveyed
in lieu thereof.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.07 DESCENT OF TITLES.
   The laws of the state govern the descent of title to cemetery lots as well
as other matters pertaining to assignments, conveyances, devises, and trust
deeds.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.08 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   The cemetery will open for interments from 8:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m.
daily with the exceptions of observed holidays. The city may ask for proof of
lot ownership.
   (B)   Funeral directors, upon arrival at the cemetery, must present the
necessary burial permit from the local health office.
   (C)   When an interment is to be made in a lot, the location of such
interment shall be designated by the lot owner. Should the lot owner fail or
neglect to make such designation, the city reserves the right to make the
interment in a location agreed upon by the Funeral Director and the cemetery
sexton.
   (D)   The cemetery sexton and the employees of the cemetery are the only
persons permitted to open plots.
   (E)   All charges for interment or services in connection therewith, shall
be paid to the cemetery sexton who will issue a receipt.
   (F)   Arrangements for the payment of any and all indebtedness due the city
must be made before interment will be made.
   (G)   The right is reserved by the city to insist upon at least 24 hours
notice prior to any interment and at least one week's notice prior to any
disinterments or removal. Disinterments will be done during times of favorable
ground conditions only.
   (H)   All interments, disinterments, and removals must be made at the time,
and in the manner determined by the cemetery sexton and upon the fees
established by the city.
   (I)   Besides being subject to these rules and regulations, all interments,
disinterments, and removals are made subject to the orders and laws of the
properly constituted public authorities.
   (J)   The city will not be responsible for any order given by telephone or
for any mistake occurring from the want of precise and proper instructions as
to the particular space, size of plot, and location in a lot, where interment
is desired.
   (K)   The city will not be responsible for the interment permit nor for the
identity of the person sought to be interred.
   (L)   All requests to open a plot for an interment in the Oak Grove Cemetery
must be in writing by an individual who presumptively has authority to make
such a request.
   (M)   While the city will provide the same degree of maintenance and care in
the Oak Grove Cemetery, the owners of plots and lots therein shall be subject
to these rules and regulations and (including mausoleum, monument and marker
restrictions) any changes or modifications thereof.
   (N)   All interments will require the use of a concrete, fiberglass or metal
grave liner. The city will not be responsible for any cremation interments with
or without a container. It is preferred that containers be used.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.09 PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   The city will undertake to maintain, as may be practicable, the
planting of trees and shrubs and to preserve and maintain landscape features
within the cemetery grounds.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be no individual beds of shrubbery or flowers or
personalized landscaping allowed on individual lots. This includes the
installation of copings, rock, mulch, bark, trees, bushes, grasses, toys,
boxes, metal or glass containers of any kind. If said landscaping material is
discovered it will be removed by the city at the owner's expense. An attempt
will be made to contact the family in reference to a violation. A registered
letter outlying the violation will be sent to the last address (if known) of a
family member. If no response (from the family) is received within five working
days of the letter being sent, the cemetery sexton and the commissioner in
charge of the Cemetery Department will determine what action should be taken.
      (2)   All landscaping on the ground prior to the approval of this chapter
will be allowed to remain (grandfathered) until such time the landscaping
design becomes dilapidated and or unsightly. At that time it (the landscaping)
will be removed by the cemetery staff.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be no jars, glass, or metal receptacles, or other
containers used on the premises for the holding of floral bouquets. All such
form of decoration shall be in approved containers.
      (2)   Approved containers are described as: Vases attached to the
monument, hanging baskets, and monument saddles.
   (D)   The city shall not be responsible for any kind of plantings damaged by
the elements, vandals, thieves or by other causes beyond its control. The
cemetery sexton shall have the authority to remove all floral designs, flowers,
weeds, trees, as in the judgment of the sexton, they become unsightly,
dangerous, detrimental, or diseased, or when they do not conform to the rules
and regulations as stated herein.
   (E)   The city shall not be liable for floral pieces, baskets, or frames
placed on or near gravesites that are damaged or stolen.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.10 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   The cemetery sexton is hereby empowered to enforce all rules and regulations
and to exclude from the cemetery any person or persons violating the same. The
sexton shall have charge of the grounds and
buildings including the conduct of funerals, traffic, employees, plot or lot
owners, visitors and private vendors conducting business at the cemetery.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
§ 95.11 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MEMORIAL WORK.
   Specifications are necessary to permit the sound operation of the cemetery
in the interest of all lot owners and the community it serves. These
specifications are the result of careful study and reasonable application of
the memorial. Violators will be notified promptly and will be expected to
remedy the situation as soon as practicable. A monument permit must be filled
out and approved prior to setting. The monument setting fee will be due prior
to setting.
   (A)   Family monument. To avoid the appearance of congestion, only one
central or family memorial should be placed on a family lot (a family lot will
constitute four or more plots).
      (1)   Anything above grass level will be considered "a monument" (with
reference to placement on the plot/lot).
      (2)   All information panels (on monuments) will be placed on the side of
the monument that the interment will be made.
   (B)   Mausoleums. Mausoleums or tombs either wholly or partially above
ground will be constructed only in lots designated by the city. Mausoleums are
limited to six feet in height. Any structure higher than six feet must be
approved by the cemetery sexton.
   (C)   Location and design. Plans, specifications and location of the
mausoleum or tomb on lot are subject to approval of the cemetery officials.
   (D)   When work should stop. Out of respect for the deceased and the family
of the deceased, all work of any description will cease while a funeral or
interment is being conducted nearby. It is also required that trucks and
workmen withdraw to a reasonable distance from the location of the funeral
service.
   (E)   No soliciting. Approaching the bereaved for the purpose of soliciting
any business within the cemetery is prohibited.
   (F)   Quality material. To properly perpetuate memory, all monuments,
markers, mausoleums and tombs shall be of quality granite, marble or other
natural stone.
   (G)   Responsibility of monument retailer. Monument retailers and
independent stone setters shall set monuments and markers in conformity with
cemetery requirements and in accordance with the trade standards of proper
methods of handling and settings.
   (H)   Monument specifications.
Sections 12-17
   Any ½ lot (3 spaces) 10½ feet wide is the average space:
      36" foundation on single spaces
      24" monument
      No foot markers
      Veteran's marker are allowed
      Height must be approved by cemetery sexton
   Full lot which consists of 6 spaces, 3 on east side and 3 on west side:
      1 family monument per lot
      Foot markers are east & west end of lot
      24" markers and monuments
      Height must be approved by cemetery sexton
      Full width foundation permitted
Sections 18A-Z and Sections 1-10
   Single spaces are 4 feet per space
   42" foundation per space
   72" foundation per 2 spaces
   No foot markers (with exception of Section 10)
   Veteran's markers are allowed
 
      (1)   Bench markers can be used as monuments, but must first be approved
by the cemetery sexton.
      (2)   Due to inexact cutting by the granite manufacturer, a one inch
variance in base length and width will be allowed. Anything over one inch will
be considered oversize and the penalties outlined in (H)(4)(b) of this section
will be instated.
      (3)   All monuments and markers will have a four inch border around the
monument base.
      (4)   The city has the right at the expense of the monument company or
lot owner to correct or remove any memorial if it is deemed unsightly.
         (a)   A minimum of six hours notice for the flagging of a lot for the
purpose of installing a monument, grass marker, or mausoleum is required. If,
for any reason the lot must be reflagged, a cost (see rate schedule) will be
charged to the monument company, payable in advance.
         (b)   If a monument company is advised of an infraction of these rules
and regulations the monument company will have a 30 calendar day period to
correct it. A fine of $50 per day may (at the cemetery sexton's discretion) be
imposed upon the monument company until said infraction(s) is resolved. Vendors
found to be in violation of the rules and regulations of the cemetery shall be
prohibited from performing any further work at the cemetery for a period of six
months.
         (c)   All foundations that extend above grass level will have dirt
feathered out from the edge.
   (I)   Lot markers. The corners of each lot will be marked with stone or
metal posts set at ground level. All corner posts shall be set by the city or
its authorized agents.
   (J)   Foundations. All foundations will be set back two inches from the
length side of the foundation to the lot line.
   (K)   Approval of design by cemetery sexton.
      (1)   So that all memorials shall be in customary good taste adding to
the beauty of the cemetery, it is necessary that the cemetery officials retain
authority to reject any plan or design for a memorial which, on account of
size, design or inscription, is unsuitable to the lot on which it is to be
placed. A plan (drawing) outlining all lengths, widths, monument heights and
design will be required. If the plan for the memorial is rejected, such
rejection shall be made within ten days and explanation given. Upon request,
any rejected application shall be promptly reviewed by the cemetery sexton.
      (2)   All monuments will be approved for setting by the cemetery sexton
or his designee. Upon arrival at the cemetery all monuments will be inspected
for proper size by the cemetery sexton or his designee. If rejected, the
monument will not be allowed to be set. If a monument needs to be installed on
a Saturday, approval must be obtained on Friday.
   (L)   Right to remove. Should any monument, mausoleum tomb, or personalized
landscaping become unsightly, dilapidated, or a safety hazard to visitors or
the cemetery staff, the city will have the right to remove the same. An effort
will be made to locate the owners.
   (M)   Advertising. Striving for surroundings of peace and beauty as a
setting for monuments prohibits advertising of any description within the
cemetery, such as "For Sale" signs on any lot or plot.
   (N)   Outside workmen. All workmen employed by outside firms while within
the cemetery are subject to regulations set forth by the city. All workmen
employed by outside firms, while in the cemetery will be under the direct
authority of the cemetery sexton. No work within the cemetery grounds will be
allowed on Sundays or nationally recognized Memorial Day.
   (O)   Dirt removal. All excess dirt will be disposed of in a proper manner.
Excess dirt can be put in low plots or holes. All sod and clods will be chopped
up and spread out. Excess dirt will not be allowed to be spread out randomly.
If available, the cemetery will allow the use of a dirt trailer for excess dirt
removal. If excess dirt is not properly disposed of, the monument company will
be required to return and remove said excess dirt. If not removed within five
working days of notification, the monument company's privileges may be revoked
for a period of six months and the cost of removal will be billed to the
offending monument company.
   (P)   Failure to comply. If a monument company is found to be in violation
of any of these rules and regulations, their privileges may be revoked for a
period of six months to one year.
(Ord. 744, passed 9-13-10)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS
      
113.   VIDEO GAMING
      
114.   SOLICITORS/PEDDLERS
      
115.   RAFFLES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   License fee schedule
   
110.03   Certain amusements prohibited from residential areas
   
110.04   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, or corporation to be engaged
in or carry on any business, occupation or pursuit hereinafter mentioned in
this chapter, within the limits of the city, without first having obtained a
license therefor in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-11-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   There shall be taxed and collected of and from the person or persons
or corporation engaged in or carrying on the different branches of business,
occupation or pursuits in this section mentioned, respectfully, license fees
for the terms and rates as follows:
      (1)   Circus or menagerie shall pay a license fee of $10 for each term of
one day.
      (2)   Circus and menagerie combined shall pay a license fee of $20 for
each term of one day.
      (3)   Miniature golf courses shall pay a license fee of $50 per year,
payable in advance.
      (4)   Peddlers or vendors or itinerant merchants or transient vendors of
ware or merchandise, on foot, shall pay a license fee of $5 for each term of
one day.   
      (5)   Peddlers or vendors as above in wagons or trucks shall pay a
license fee of $10 for each term of one day.
      (6)   Persons desiring to sell any goods, wares or merchandise,
confectionery, soft drinks, medicine, in a stand, enclosed or unenclosed, upon
the streets, or commons or alleys thereof, shall pay a license fee of $10 for
each term of one day.
      (7)   Pool halls shall pay a license fee of $15 for the first table and
$10 for each additional table.
      (8)   Shooting galleries shall pay a license fee of $1 per day.
      (9)   Skating rinks shall pay a license fee of $10 per week.
      (10) All other tent shows or amusements not selling merchandise shall pay
a license fee of $3 per days. If selling merchandise of any kind, they shall
pay a license fee of $10 dollars per day.
   (B)   The City Clerk is authorized to issue licenses provided for in this
chapter and to collect the fee for same as above provided, and in addition
thereto a fee of fifty cents for issuing the same.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-11-28; Am. Ord. 7A, passed 5-6-29; Am. Ord. 8, passed 8-4-30)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 CERTAIN AMUSEMENTS PROHIBITED FROM RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Tent shows, skating rinks, or other amusements are prohibited from
showing, locating or operating in the residential portion of the city, if any
near-by or adjacent resident of the city shall object thereto and file
objection with the City Clerk;
   (B)   All licenses issued under §
110.02 shall be optional with the City Council as to whether they shall be
issued or not issued, and for any reasonable cause may instruct the City Clerk
to refuse to issue the license.
(Ord. passed 6-2-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to farmers and others living within the city
nor to exhibitions, concerts and lectures given by the citizens of the city nor
to any entertainments provided for by subscription of the citizens of the city
and vicinity.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-11-28)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Liquor Control Commission
   
111.03   Compliance with state and federal statutes
   
111.04   Consumption of alcoholic beverage in public
Licensing
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Application for license
   
111.17   Persons ineligible for license
   
111.18   Term; pro-rating fee
   
111.19   Classification of licenses
   
111.20   Number of licenses
   
111.21   License fees
   
111.22   Payment and disposition of fees
   
111.23   Insurance required
   
111.24   Record of license
   
111.25   Transfer of license
   
111.26   Renewal of license
   
111.27   Change of location
   
111.28   Revocation and suspension of license
Operation and Sales
   
111.40   Peddling prohibited
   
111.41   Sanitary conditions
   
111.42   Location restrictions
   
111.43   Holidays
   
111.44   Days and hours of operation
   
111.45   Sales to underage, intoxicated or incompetent persons
   
111.46   Underage persons prohibited from purchasing; misrepresentation of age
   
111.47   Restriction on sales
   
111.48   Sales on credit
   
111.49   Requirements in preparation and service of intoxicating liquor
   
111.50   Employee age requirement; serving underage persons
   
111.51   Exhibiting license
   
111.52   Dancing permitted
   
111.53   Enforcement policies
   
111.54   Miscellaneous requirements for license holders
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, ale, or other liquid
containing more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume and which is
capable of being consumed as a beverage for a human being.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and including,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager, porter, and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation or limited liability company organized under the laws of
this state, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually
served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay,
to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which
25 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or adjoining buildings in connection therewith and such building or
buildings, structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the license.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, usually corked, capped, or sealed or
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PACKAGE SALE. The sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package and not
to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in part on the premises where
sold.
   RESTAURANT. A place of business were food is sold for consumption on the
premises and where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business
carried on as defined in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3.23.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale in any
form.
   SALE. Any transfer, either by gift or for consideration, exchange or barter
in any manner, and includes all sales made by any person, either principal,
proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any fund-raising event, festival, carnival, concert, dance,
or other public activity sponsored by an organization with offices in the city
and not otherwise holding a liquor license as set forth in §
111.19.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 950, passed
2-26-24)
§ 111.02 LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION.
   The Mayor is the Liquor Control Commissioner and all members of the City
Council shall assist him in his duties.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.03 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL STATUTES.
   All licensees under the terms hereof shall at all times fully comply with
the provisions of all federal and state laws and statutes pertaining to the
business of such licenses.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-91; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be or appear in a drunken or
intoxicated condition or drink alcoholic liquor on the streets, in the alleys,
or in any public place where alcoholic liquor is not legally sold, or in or
about such places as are frequented by the public, such as ice cream parlors,
stores, drug stores, service stations, commercial businesses, and the like.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail in
the city alcoholic liquor, without first having obtained a liquor dealer's
license issued by the City Clerk or to sell alcoholic liquor in violation of
the terms of such license or of this chapter after having first obtained the
same.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for licenses shall be made to the City Clerk in writing, and
under oath, upon forms prepared and furnished by the city. All applications and
the licenses issued thereon shall state the name of the applicant and the
location of the premises in or on which the applicant seeks to operate under
the license. All applications must be approved by the Liquor Control
Commissioner before the issuance of the license by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.17 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the city, unless such person's
place of business is conducted by a manager or agent who possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee, including place of residence;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
State of Illinois;
      (5)   A person whose liquor license issued under this chapter or
ordinance of any other municipality has been revoked for cause;
      (6)   A co-partnership, unless all members of such co-partnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
      (7)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any ordinance of
the City or federal or state law concerning the manufacture, possession,
transportation, or sale of alcoholic liquor, subsequent to the passage of the
Illinois Dram Shop Act, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-21;
      (8)   Any policeman or law enforcement officer, any Mayor, City Clerk,
City Treasurer or member of the City Council; and no such official shall be
interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale
or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (9)   Any person not eligible for a federal and state dealer's license;
      (10)   A corporation or limited liability company, if any officer,
member, or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible
to receive a license hereunder for any reason, other than citizenship and
residence within the city; or
      (11)   A corporation or limited liability company, unless it is
incorporated or organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or
a foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the Illinois
Business Corporation Act or the Illinois Limited Liability Company Act, to
transact business in Illinois. The Liquor Control Commission shall permit and
accept from an applicant for a license under this section proof provided from
the Illinois Secretary of State's website that the corporation or limited
liability company is in good standing and is qualified under the Business
Corporation Act or the Limited Liability Company Act to transact business in
Illinois.
   (B)   A licensee to whom a license is issued shall continue to meet the
qualifications throughout the period of this license; any license issued to any
applicant who is later found to be ineligible for such license, whether such
ineligibility existed before or came into being after the issuance of the
license, may be revoked by the Mayor and Council acting in the capacity of
Local Liquor Control Commission upon reasonable notice to the licensee and
public hearing thereon. In the event of the revocation of a license, no refund
of any license fee therefore paid shall be made.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 910, passed 3-22-21)
§ 111.18 TERM; PRO-RATING FEE.
   Each license shall be issued for the period of one year, commencing on July
1, or a lesser term if application is made therefor after July 1, and the
issuance thereof. In the event the license is issued for a period of less than
one year, the fee therefor, as herein provided, shall be reduced in the
proportion that the period of time for which such license is issued, bears to
the 12-month period from July 1 to June 30, but no refunds of any such license
fee shall be made or paid by the city.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.19 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES.
   Licenses shall be and are hereby divided into six classes:
   (A)   Class A or tavern license. Class A or tavern license, which shall
authorize the retail sale on the premises specified in said license of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on or off the premises for which such license
is issued.
   (B)   Class B or restaurant license. Class B or restaurant license, which
shall be issued only to the operator of a restaurant, as defined in ILCS Ch.
235, Act 25, § 1-3.23, which license shall authorize the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor for consumption at facilities used and provided by the
licensee for the service and consumption of food in the interior of the
licensee's restaurant building on the licensed premises. No package sale shall
be made by the holder of such license for consumption off such licensed
premises.
   (C)   Class A-B or combined tavern and restaurant license. Class A-B or
combined tavern and restaurant license, which shall be issued to operators of a
business premises that has within its building or buildings a restaurant and
tavern with bar, with intentions to engage in package liquor sales for off
premises consumption, from its tavern site. Such licensees shall meet all other
requirements set forth for Class A tavern licenses and Class B restaurant
licenses.
   (D)   Class C or package liquor store license. Class C or package liquor
store license, which shall authorize the licensee to make package sales of
intoxicating liquor on the licensed premises of alcoholic liquor at retail
which are not for consumption on the licensed premises or on any of the
premises including parking lot or other facilities, connected therewith. If,
however, the license holder obtains a state gaming permit, it shall be
authorized to sell for consumption on the licensed premises, within a
designated gaming area, beer, wine, wine coolers, and pre-mix package drinks
sold in bottles or cans. Sale of alcoholic beverages poured from a bottle or
dispensed from a tap by employees of the licensee, will not be permitted.
   (E)   Class D or club license. Class D or club license, which shall be
issued to a club as defined in ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.24 and shall entitle
such club to make sales and consumption sales of such liquor to bona fide club
members and their families and guests introduced by a member, but not to the
public generally.
   (F)   Class E or hotel license. Class E or hotel license, which shall be
issued to a hotel as defined in § 111.01 and shall entitle such hotel to make
sales and consumption sales of such liquor on the licensed premises and to
serve liquor to its guests. No package sales shall be made by the holder of
such licenses for consumption off such licensed premises, except wines
manufactured in the State of Illinois and licensed for retail sale.
   (G)   Class G or special event license.
Class G or special event license, which shall authorize the retail sale and
distribution of alcoholic liquor for consumption at a special event as defined
in § 111.01 on the premises specified. The fee for obtaining such a license
shall be $25 for each 24-hour period of operation. The application for the
license shall describe the premises, including the structure and approximate
square footage upon which the alcoholic liquors are to be sold at retail, and
the period of time to be covered by the license. The hours of the event shall
be stated on the application, subject to approval by the Liquor Control
Commissioner, but in no event shall the license be effective for more than
seven-day period. Only organizations with business premises located within the
corporate limits of the city may apply for a special event liquor license. The
organization applying for such a license must meet all the requirements for a
liquor license as set forth in § 111.17. Any organization applying for a
special event license as described herein shall provide to the Liquor Control
Commissioner proof of liability and host liquor dram shop insurance in an
amount not less than the amount required by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commissioner, and either the policy must name the city as co-insured owner/dram
shop operator or the organization must agree in writing to indemnify the city
for any damage suffered as result of the hosting and operation of the special
event. No organization shall obtain a special event liquor license more than
four times in any calendar year. Notwithstanding any provisions of this section
to the contrary, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold or distributed by the holder
of a special event licence in violation of this chapter or any local ordinance
or state regulation. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the
holder of a Class D club license from applying for and holding a special event
license concurrently with a Class D club license.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 825, passed 6-27-16; Am. Ord. 842, passed
5-8-17; Am. Ord. 881, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 950, passed 2-26-24)
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   There shall be issued to be in effect at any one time not more than:
Classification or Type of License Number of Licenses
Classification or Type of License          Number of Licenses
Class A (Tavern) license                   3
Class B (Restaurant) license               4
Class A-B (combined tavern and restaurant) 3
Class C (Package Liquor Store) license     4
Class D (Club) license                     3
Class E (Hotel) license                    1
Glass G (Special Event) license            6
 
   (B)   No person shall be eligible to hold more than one license of a single
classification during any annual period.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 593, passed 7-14-99; Am. Ord. 662, passed
1-12-04; Am. Ord. 679, passed 11-13-06; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord.
785, passed 6-9-14; Am. Ord. 829, passed 10-10-16; Am. Ord. 852, passed 1-8-18;
Am. Ord. 861, passed 11-1-18; Am. Ord. 881, passed 11-25-19)
Cross-reference:
   Classification of licenses, see §
111.19
§ 111.21 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual fees for Class A (Tavern) and Class B (Restaurant) licenses
shall be $1,200, payable in quarterly installments of $300 each due on the
first days of July, October, January and April, or semi-annual installments of
$600, due on the first day of July and first day of January, or in a single
installment of $1,200, due on or before July 1.
   (B)   The annual fee for a Class A-B (Combined Tavern and Restaurant)
license shall be $1,200, payable in quarterly installments of $300, each due on
the first days of July, October, January and April, or semi-annual installments
of $600, due on the first day of July and first day of January, or in a single
installment of $1,200, due on or before July 1.
   (C)   The annual fee for Class C (Package Liquor Store) licenses shall be
$1,200, payable in the same manner as Class A and Class B licenses.
   (D)   The annual fee for Class D (Club) licenses shall be $650, payable in
quarterly installments of $162.50 each on the first days of July, October,
January and April, or semi-annual installments of $325, due on the first day of
July and first day of January, or in a single installment of $650, due on or
before July 1.
   (E)   The annual fee for Class E (Hotel) license shall be $1,200, payable in
quarterly installments of $300 each on the first days of July, October, January
and April, or semi-annual installments of $600, due on the first day of July
and the first day of January, or in a single installment of $1,200, due on or
before July 1.
   (F)   The applicable fee for Glass G (Special Event) licenses shall be $25
per 24-hour period, payable upon approval of such license application.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 825, passed 6-27-16; Am. Ord. 881, passed
11-25-19)
§ 111.22 PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk. The first installment or
annual payment shall accompany the application for license. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the installment/ payment shall be returned to
the applicant. If such license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in
the general corporate fund, or in such other fund as shall have been designated
by the City Council.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.23 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   All applications for license shall be accompanied by a binder from an
authorized agent for dram shop insurance coverage in such amounts as
appropriate for issuance of a license by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission, conditioned upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions of
this chapter and of all other state and local liquor control laws, which
insurance binder shall be subject to approval by the Liquor Control Commission.
Proof of insurance shall be provided by the applicant following its receipt of
the subject license.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.24 RECORD OF LICENSE.
   The City Clerk shall keep a complete record of all such licenses issued by
the city; and shall furnish the Liquor Control Commissioner and Police
Department with a complete record thereof. Upon the revocation of any license,
the Mayor shall forthwith give notice of such action to the City Clerk and
Police Department.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issuance, and may be revoked as provided
in this chapter, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, nor shall the same be subject to
being encumbered or hypothecated. No refund of any license fee or part thereof
shall be made by the city.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.26 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Written applications for renewal of license in the form prescribed by
the City Council with proof of insurance as prescribed in this chapter shall be
filed with the City Clerk on or before the second Monday of June. The Clerk
shall report all the names of all applicants for renewals of licenses to the
City Council at a meeting to be called by the Mayor within ten days after the
second Monday of June, together with the location of the places of business of
such license, and whether or not any written complaint has been filed as to the
manner in which the applicant for such renewal of a license has been carried on
the business authorized thereby, or protest against the renewal thereof,
setting forth the grounds of protest. Applicants for the renewal of an existing
license who are qualified to receive a license, shall have preference over
applicants for a new license.
   (B)   All applications for renewal of license shall be referred by the City
Clerk to the City Council acting as the Liquor Control Commission, for
rejection or approval, as in the case of applications for original licenses.
   (C)   An application for renewal of any license upon its expiration shall
not be granted if written complaint has been filed with the City Clerk or City
Council as to the manner in which the applicant for such renewal has carried on
the business authorized by such license, or if a protest as hereinbefore
provided has been filed, until hearing has been had on such complaint by the
Liquor Control Commission for the approval or rejection of such application for
renewal. If a complaint or protest, as in this chapter provided, is filed
against the renewal of any license, the City Council acting as Liquor Control
Commission shall within ten days after the date when applications for renewal
are required to be filed, conduct a hearing after reasonable notice to the
applicant at which the complainant and the applicant, and such evidence as the
Commission may desire, may be heard and considered. The granting or rejection
of a license after such hearing shall be determined by the Commission and its
decision shall be final.
   (D)   The renewal of any license may be denied by the Liquor Control
Commission with or without cause for the purpose of decreasing the number of
any class of licenses theretofore granted by the city.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92)
   (E)   As a condition to license renewal, licensees shall provide proof that
bar tenders and servers of alcohol have received certification from the TIPS
alcohol training program.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.27 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor, as
therein provided, only in the premises described in such application. Such
location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued
by the City Clerk, upon the approval of the City Council acting as the Liquor
Control Commission.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
§ 111.28 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council acting as Liquor Control Commission may revoke, or suspend
for a definite period of time, any liquor license issued under the provisions
hereof, for the violation of any provision of this chapter, or for any
violation of any state or federal law or statute pertaining to the possession,
sale or handling in any way of alcoholic liquor. The Liquor Control Commission
may, if it appears to be to the public interest, suspend any license issued
hereunder during the pendency of proceedings properly instituted for the
revocation of such license. No licensee shall operate under his license during
any period for which a license may have been suspended.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11)
OPERATION AND SALES
§ 111.40 PEDDLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of alcoholic liquor for such sale, shall be kept in clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of all
ordinances, statutes and laws regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale or other dispensing of any alcoholic
liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school. No such license
shall be issued unless the premises covered thereby are approved by the City
Council acting as Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.43 HOLIDAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for the holder of any license to sell or offer to sell,
at retail or otherwise, directly or indirectly, or give away or otherwise
dispense, any alcoholic liquor in the city on days observed as holidays
commonly known as Christmas or Easter Sunday.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.44 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The holder of any license issued hereunder may keep his licensed
premises open for business between the following hours:
 
Monday    Between 6:00 a.m. and midnight
Tuesday   Between 6:00 a.m. and midnight
Wednesday Between 6:00 a.m. and midnight
Thursday  Between 6:00 a.m. and midnight
Friday    Between 6:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
Saturday  Between 6:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
          Class A (Tavern); Class B (Restaurant); Class A-B (Combined tavern
Sunday    and restaurant), Class C (Package) and Class E (Hotel) between 12:00
          Noon and 10:00 p.m.
          Class D (Club) Between 12:00 noon and midnight.
 
   (B)   No person, including entertainers and band members, shall be and
remain in the licensed premises when the license holder is not open for
business, except for the licensee and employees of the licensee, who will be
allowed one hour for necessary closing procedures. Last call for customers of
the licensee shall be given not less than 30 minutes before closing, and all
bands or other entertainers shall stop performing at least one hour before
closing.
   (C)   License holders may extend their business hours on New Year’s Eve, but
in no event shall closing be later than 1:00 a.m. on any night. Applications
for extended hours on other occasions will be considered. No provisions are
made herein for additional or extended hours on the Saturday of the annual
Grayville Days celebration. On those days where the license holder offers live
entertainment, including but not limited to bands, DJs, wrestling, and karaoke,
a minimum of one security representative must be present. Security
representatives must be on the licensed premises, and must wear approved
apparel. The apparel shall clearly identify the person as a security
representative, and shall be approved by the Chief of Police. A minimum of two
security representatives shall be required on New Year’s Eve, Grayville Days
weekend, or any other time extended hours of operation are approved by the City
Council, where live entertainment as described above, is offered.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the public
to, or permit the public to remain within, or to permit the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in or upon any hours within which the sale of such liquor is
prohibited; provided that restaurants, hotels and those portions of Class C
licensed premises which are devoted to the business of the sale of services or
commodities other than alcoholic liquor and which are separated by means making
access to those portions of the premises where alcoholic liquor is sold
inaccessible to the public after the last allowable time for the sale of
alcoholic liquor as provided herein, may be kept open for business during such
hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to, or consumed by the public during
such hours.
   (E)   A licensee shall, however, have the right to take no more than two of
his employees into the licensed premises between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:
00 a.m. on Sundays, and on the holidays of Christmas and Easter Sunday, for
cleaning and maintenance purposes only. All licensees shall, at and during the
time when their licensed premises are closed as provided herein, keep all
shades, blinds, and curtains raised and open and maintain sufficient light in
the licensed premises so that a full, complete, unobstructed, and clear view of
the interior of the same may be had and obtained from the exterior thereof,
occasions of failure of electric current and similar causes beyond the control
of the licensee being excepted.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 584, passed 8-28-99; Am. Ord. 593, passed
7-14-99; Am. Ord. 651A, passed 4-14-03; Am. Ord. 668, passed 5-9-05; Am. Ord.
746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 771, passed 4-22-13; Am. Ord. 812, passed 2-8-16;
Am. Ord. 852, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 881, passed 11-25-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.45 SALES TO UNDERAGE, INTOXICATED OR INCOMPETENT PERSONS.
   No licensee, his or her agent, or employee, shall sell, give, or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated
person, or to a person known by the person making such sale, gift, or delivery,
to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient or in need of mental treatment, and no person shall purchase any
alcoholic liquor for, or for delivery to, anyone to whom the sale of alcoholic
liquor is forbidden under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM PURCHASING; MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase any alcoholic
liquor in any place where such liquors are lawfully sold, or from any person
lawfully authorized to sell the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any non-age person to misrepresent his or her
age for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic liquor in any place where such
liquor is lawfully sold, or to any person authorized to sell such liquor for
the purpose of purchasing the same.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 RESTRICTION ON SALES.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any alcoholic
liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of customers
are minors of school age or where the principal business transactions consist
of selling school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks to such
minors.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.48 SALES ON CREDIT.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor to any person on credit, or
on a pass book, or order on a store, or in exchange for any goods, wares or
merchandise or in payment of any services rendered, provided that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any hotel or motel from
permitting checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests
residing at the hotel and charged to the accounts of the guests.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.49 REQUIREMENTS IN PREPARATION AND SERVICE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   The holder of a Class A (Tavern), Class B (Restaurant), Class A-B (Combined
Tavern and Restaurant), Class D (Club), or Class E (Hotel) license shall mix,
pour or otherwise prepare drinks or alcoholic liquor only in a bar area
specifically designated as such by the license holder, with the dining area or
any area in which individuals under age 21 are permitted, located at least ten
feet from the outer perimeter of the bar. Employees of such licensee preparing
or serving intoxicating liquor in the bar room or from the bar room into the
dining area of licensee's premises shall be 18 years of age or over.
Intoxicating liquor may be served in the bar room whether from a bar or from
tables therein located; intoxicating liquor may be served in the dining areas
only from tables; and intoxicating liquor may be served in individual rooms
only in hotels licensed as Class E.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 881, passed
11-25-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.50 EMPLOYEE AGE REQUIREMENT; SERVING UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   No one under the age of 18 years shall draw, pour or mix any alcoholic
liquor as an employee of any licensee; and no licensee shall employ any such
person to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed premise within
the city. Any bands, entertainers or performance groups offering entertainment
on a licensed premises, having members who are 18 years of age or younger, must
have a parent or legal guardian of the minor present throughout the
performance.
   (B)   The holder of a Class A (Tavern), Class A-B (Combined Tavern and
Restaurant), Class C (Package Liquor Store), Class D (Club), or Class E (Hotel)
license shall not employ any person under the age of 18 years to work in the
bar room where alcoholic liquor is mixed, poured or otherwise prepared. Minors,
may, if in the company of a parent or guardian, be permitted to enter the
dining or family room of the holder of a restaurant or hotel license, for the
purpose of eating and consuming food, provided the minor is seated at least ten
feet from the nearest portion of the bar. With respect to Class D (Club)
licenses, a minor cannot enter the room where liquor is being mixed, poured,
prepared or sold, unless the licensee has upon application, obtained permission
from the Liquor Commission to allow minors, in the company of a parent or
guardian, to enter such a room, while the licensee is hosting a reception,
party, or similar special event. Under no circumstances can a minor be served
alcoholic liquor in a dining or family room, or any other room on the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 881, passed 11-25-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 EXHIBITING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place in or upon the licensed premises.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52 DANCING PERMITTED.
   Dancing is permitted upon all licensed premises. Each licensed premise will
be allowed no more than two disturbances requiring police action within a daily
operating period. Should more than two disturbances requiring police action
occur, the liquor license for that premise can be revoked or suspended for a
definite period of time. Any time a licensee has paid entertainment on his or
her licensed premise, all doors must be kept closed.
(Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53 ENFORCEMENT POLICIES.
   The Mayor, in his or her capacity as Liquor Control Commissioner, with the
assistance of the Chief of Police and Board of Commissioners, shall from time
to time establish written policies for the operation of licensed premises
within the city, which policies shall be incorporated by reference into this
chapter, as if fully set forth herein, and copies of such policies shall be
provided to all license holders. Additionally, that certain enforcement policy
put into effect on Monday, August 20, 2012, is hereby ratified and adopted.
(Ord. 771, passed 4-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE HOLDERS.
   (A)   All employees of the license holder must refrain from consuming
alcoholic beverages while working at the licensed premises. This restriction
applies without exception, including bartenders, barmaids and security
representatives. All employees of the license holder are subject to alcoholic
breath samples (PBT) requested by the Grayville Police Department.
   (B)   All outside beer gardens or gated areas where the consumption of
alcoholic beverages is allowed, shall be locked from within, and secured during
all hours of operations. Such areas must have approved non-transparent fencing,
such that patrons are not visible to the public at large.
   (C)   License holders shall be responsible for reimbursing the city for all
costs incurred in police officer overtime, resulting from efforts to resolve
disturbances arising at the licensed premises. All license holders, officers,
directors, and employees must be respectful and cooperative with Grayville
police officers while such officers are conducting official police business.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-8-16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense and
costs; a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which or
upon which such violation occurs or continues. If a holder is so convicted, it
may result in a suspension or revocation of the license issued by the city.
   (B)   Additionally, violations of the enforcement policy put into effect on
Monday, August 20, 2012, (see §
111.53) shall be subject to the following penalties for violations thereof:
      (1)   First offense will result in a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $500, for each offense.
      (2)   Second offense will result in a 48-hour suspension of the license
of the liquor license holder found to be responsible for the violation.
      (3)   Third offense will result in a seven-day suspension of the license
of the liquor license holder found to be in violation.
   (C)   Additionally, license holders shall be responsible for all fights
occurring on the licensed premises, underage consumption of alcoholic beverages
within the licensed areas, and patrons leaving the premises with opened
containers of alcoholic beverages. If a violation of any of these specifically
designated responsibilities occurs, or any of the requirements of §§
111.44 or
111.54, the license holder shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   First offense - fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for
each offense.
      (2)   Second offense - a 48-hour suspension of the license holder’s
liquor license, in addition to the applicable fine.
      (3)   Third offense - a seven-day suspension of the license holder’s
liquor license, in addition to the applicable fine.
(Ord. 514, passed 7-20-92; Am. Ord. 746, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 771, passed
4-22-13; Am. Ord. 812, passed 2-8-16)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Physical requirements
   
112.03   Purchases from minors prohibited
   
112.04   Inspections
Licensing
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Application
   
112.17   Disqualifications
   
112.18   Conditions of license
   
112.19   Annual license fee
   
112.20   Revoking license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, trash, rubber
debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof,
iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   JUNK YARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary fills.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
§ 112.02 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum physical requirements at all times for each junk yard or
automobile graveyard shall be as follows:
   (A)   The premises where the junk yard or automobile graveyard is located
shall not have more than two entrances thereto and two exits therefrom, each of
which shall not exceed 15 feet in width at the perimeter of the premises.
   (B)   The premises where the junk yard or automobile graveyard is located
shall be enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, non-transparent, vertical wall
or fence of a minimum height of seven feet measured from ground level,
excepting for the entrances and exits permitted by division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   The aforesaid solid, non-transparent wall or fence, and the gates or
doors, if any, at the aforesaid entrances and exits, shall not contain any
sign, poster or advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, excepting one sign
of the licensee thereon not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
   (D)   The public streets and alleys adjacent to the junk yard or automobile
graveyard shall not have junk thereon.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 PURCHASES FROM MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee hereunder shall purchase or receive any article whatsoever from
any minors without the written consent of their parents or guardians.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 INSPECTIONS.
   Any licensee hereunder shall at all times allow any police officer or
patrolman of the city and the public health authorities free access to any and
all portions of the junk yard or automobile graveyard for the purpose of
inspection, during regular business hours.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to
keep, maintain, conduct or operate a junk yard or automobile graveyard within
the corporate limits of the city, without first obtaining a license so to do as
herein provided. A separate license shall be secured for each junk yard or
automobile graveyard located on non-contiguous lots, blocks, tracts or parcels
of land.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
§ 112.16 APPLICATION.
   Before any license under the provisions of this chapter is issued, any
person, firm, partnership or corporation desiring to operate a junk yard or
automobile graveyard in this city shall first make a verified application in
writing to the City Clerk, stating thereon the full name of the applicant, his
residence address, the trade name of the applicant, the legal description of
the premises where the junk yard or automobile graveyard is to be located, the
size and approximate location of each entrance thereto and exit therefrom,
whether or not the premises where the junk yard or automobile graveyard is to
be located is enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, non-transparent wall or
fence of a minimum seven feet measured from ground level excepting the
entrances and exits, and whether or not the public streets and alleys adjacent
to the premises where the junk yard or automobile graveyard to be located has
junk thereon. If the applicant is a corporation or partnership, the names and
residence addresses of all the partners, and in case of a corporation the names
and addresses of the president and secretary, shall be stated in the
application.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
§ 112.17 DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   Any application for a license to keep, maintain, conduct or operate a junk
yard or automobile graveyard shall be disqualified for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Not a person of good character.
   (B)   Falsification of an application for a license hereunder.
   (C)   License for a junk yard or automobile graveyard theretofore issued to
the applicant has been revoked during the preceding 24 months.
   (D)   Failure to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junk yard or automobile graveyard as specified in §
112.02.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
§ 112.18 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all licenses issued hereunder shall be for the 12-month
period, shall state that such license is issued in the name of the junk yard or
automotive graveyard dealer solely for the purpose of keeping, maintaining,
conducting and operating a junk yard or automobile graveyard, the expiration
date thereof, the legal description of the premises where the junk yard or
automobile graveyard is to be located, that such license shall be used and the
privileges thereof exercised only at the described premises, and that such
license is non-assignable and non-transferrable.
   (B)   The license shall further provide that it is issued subject to all the
provisions of this chapter; that upon the first conviction for a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to the fine, the junk yard
or automobile graveyard shall remain closed for a period of 30 days; that upon
the second conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
such license shall become null and void, and the licensee shall forfeit all
sums paid for such license, and that the licensee by the acceptance of such
license expressly agrees to all the terms and conditions thereof and to the
terms and provisions of this chapter, and all amendments thereof.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for each junk yard or automobile graveyard shall be
$50 payable in advance with the filing of the application for license, and
shall not be subject to pro-rata reduction for a portion of the year, either
because of application for or because of revocation of a license; provided,
however, that only one said annual license fee shall be payable for licenses
which may be issued whenever the applicant desires to keep, maintain, conduct
or operate junk yards or automobile graveyards on lots, blocks, tracts or
parcels of land which are situated on directly opposite sides of and abut upon
each side of a public street or alley.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
§ 112.20 REVOKING LICENSE.
   The Mayor of the city may revoke the license of any licensee hereunder for
violating, failing or refusing to comply with any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 for each and every
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 492-A, passed 12-3-90)
CHAPTER 113: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
113.01   Applicability of provisions
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License
   
113.04   License application requirements
   
113.05   Application filing; renewals
   
113.06   License fees
   
113.07   License revocation or suspension
   
113.08   Limitation on the number of video gaming licenses
   
113.09   Limitation on the number of video gaming terminals on premises
   
113.10   Prohibition
   
113.11   Exceptions
   
113.12   Licensed establishments
   
113.13   Seizure of unauthorized gambling devices and gambling funds
Cross-reference:
   Gambling offenses, see
Ch. 135
§ 113.01 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaming as hereinafter defined, whether or not specifically licensed
or regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Illinois Gaming Board.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES. as defined in § 18b-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-101
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any business licensed by the state to have or
operate a video gaming device in the city, including any licensed fraternal
establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment and licensed large truck stop establishment as those terms are
defined in the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility that:
      (1)   Is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store, with
separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
      (2)   Sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or biodiesel
fuel per month, with parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles. This
requirement may be met by showing that estimated future sales or a past sales
average at least 10,000 gallons per month.
   LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility located within three
road miles from a freeway interchange, as measured in accordance with the
Department of Transportation’s rules regarding the criteria for the
installation of business signs:
      (1)   That it is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store,
with separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
      (2)   That it sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month, with parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
This requirement may be met by showing that estimated future sales or past
sales average at least 50,000 gallons per month.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized
by the Board, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the city without first
having obtained a video gaming license from the city. The license provided for
in this chapter shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals at
the specified establishment.
   (B)   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the city,
nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video gaming
license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue to be
met:
      (1)   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
state permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same;
      (2)   The establishment must maintain customer seating outside of the
gaming area but within the premises at a ratio of at least five seats for each
permitted video gaming terminal;
      (3)   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee or bill due to the
city or state;
      (4)   The applicant has completed and complies with all the application
requirements set forth in §
113.04 of this chapter and is not disqualified due to a felony, gambling
offense or crime of moral turpitude; and
      (5)   The establishment is located outside of a residential zoning
district,
   (C)   Large truck stop and regular truck stop establishments do not need to
meet the requirements set forth in §
113.03(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   The Mayor shall be the approving authority for all licenses. In the
event a licensee or prospective licensee disagrees with any action taken by the
Mayor, an appeal may be made directly to the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after written notice of the action from which an appeal is
made.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.04 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The license applicant shall provide the following information to the city on
a form provided by the city:
   (A)   The legal name of the establishment;
   (B)   The business name of the establishment;
   (C)   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located;
   (D)   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment, and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification;
   (E)   A floor plan, drawn to scale using a computer, detailing the overall
layout of the establishment, including the location and count of dining
seating, the location and count of video gaming terminals and seating for the
terminals, and other significant features of the establishment, including exit
locations, restrooms and other equipment, A high-resolution electronic copy of
the floor plan, as well as a paper printed copy (no smaller than 11 inches by
17 inches), shall be submitted at the time of application; hand-drawn floor
plans and floor plan that do not include a scale will not be accepted;
   (F)   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place;
   (G)   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment;
   (H)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee;
   (I)   A phone number for the establishment;
   (J)   An e-mail address for the establishment;
   (K)   The name and address of every person owning more than a 5% share of
the establishment;
   (L)   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment;
   (M)   A copy of the establishment’s state video gaming license;
   (N)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or
partnership, a copy of the establishment’s state certificate of good standing;
   (O)   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals that the
establishment proposes to have on its premises (not to exceed the number of
terminals allowed under § 113.09 below).
   (P)   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee
or bill due to the city or state;
   (Q)   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and any local ordinance;
   (R)   A statement that no manager or owner with more than 5% interest in the
establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling offense or a
crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment cannot provide
such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of rehabilitation
from the City Chief of Police, indicating that the individual who would
disqualify the establishment from obtaining the video gaming license has been
rehabilitated and is no longer a threat to violate the law. The City Chief of
Police may consider the nature of the offense, the length of time since the
offense, the length of time since release from custody and other factors to
determine if the individual has been rehabilitated such that he or she is no
longer likely to commit another offense;
   (S)   If the application is for a new establishment based on the business
model of another existing location, information regarding the existing business
location must be provided, including the type of business, the gross receipts
as compared to any video gaming revenue for the prior 12-month period, proof of
the length of time the existing business has been operational, and proof of
ownership verifying the applicant’s ownership rights;
   (T)   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated, and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.05 APPLICATION FILING; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Applications shall be processed by the City Clerk on a first come,
first served basis. Every application shall be date and time stamped upon
filing. An application received in the mail shall be considered filed on the
date and time it is opened by the City Clerk’s department.
   (B)   Every video gaming license holder shall be required to file a renewal
application, which may contain the same or similar information as set forth in
§
113.04. Renewal applications shall be due on or before April 1, unless that day
falls on a holiday, in which case the application may be received by the Clerk
on the following business day.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for the operation of a video gaming terminal for
licensed establishments and licensed truck stop establishments as defined in §
113.02, shall be $250 per terminal. The annual fee for operation of a video
gaming terminal by a licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment as defined in said § 113.02, shall be $125 per terminal. In the
event of future video gaming terminal license fee increases, the applicable
license fee for licensed fraternal establishments and licensed veterans
establishments shall be 50% of the applicable fee for all other licensed
establishments and licensed truck stop establishments.
   (B)   All fees are not subject to proration or refund, and are due prior to
issuance of the license.
   (C)   All licenses required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed
next to the video gaming terminal(s).
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22; Am. Ord. 944, passed 8-28-23)
§ 113.07 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee under this chapter
within five business days of any charge of a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming terminal.
After a hearing presided over by the Mayor, the Mayor may order the revocation
of the license upon a finding that the violation has occurred, and the license
shall thereupon be terminated. The licensee may appeal the revocation as
prescribed in §
113.03(D).
   (B)   In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or
registration under this section, such person shall not be issued any license
provided for in this chapter for one calendar year following the revocation or
any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.08 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING LICENSES.
   There shall be no more than ten establishments licensed to operate video
gaming terminals in the city at any given time.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.09 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than six video gaming terminals allowed, and
permits issued therefor under this chapter, for each licensee at any one
location, other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
   (B)   There shall be no more than ten video gaming terminals allowed, and
permits issued therefor under this chapter, for each licensee at any licensed
large truck stop establishment.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.10 PROHIBITION.
   Except as otherwise excepted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the city, or for any person or
entity that owns, occupies or controls an establishment within the city to
knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the Board to conduct or allow such specific
activities under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 1 et
seq.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.12 LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of the
city that allows gambling to occur on their premises in violation of this
section shall be subject to having their license immediately revoked for a
period of 60 days. Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate
limits of the city that allows gambling to occur on their premises in violation
of this chapter a second time shall have their license permanently revoked and
shall, thereafter, be barred from obtaining any business, liquor or food
license within the city.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
§ 113.13 SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   Any gambling device that is not authorized by this chapter shall be subject
to immediate seizure and confiscation by the city. Any money or other thing of
value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this chapter
shall be seized and forfeited as contraband. Disposition of such gambling
devices and funds seized or confiscated shall be made in accordance with the
law.
(Ord. 922, passed 3-14-22)
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITORS/PEDDLERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Possession and display
   
114.06   Issuance
   
114.07   Restrictions
   
114.08   Revocation and suspension
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle used for the displaying, storing or transporting
of articles offered for sale by a vendor which is required to be licensed and
registered with the Secretary of State of Illinois. The term is to include
trailers, trucks and automobiles.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   As used in this code, the term solicitor shall mean every person
who shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange, at retail, any goods,
wares, food items, or merchandise from a stationary stand or vehicle (including
food trucks) or by traveling from place to place in, along and upon the
streets, avenues, alleys or public thoroughfares of the City of Grayville, or
who shall sell and deliver from any vehicle goods, wares, food items, or
merchandise by going from place to place in the City of Grayville. The term
shall include all hawkers, peddlers, itinerant merchants, and transient vendors
of merchandise, as described in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5. The term
SOLICITOR shall also mean every person who moves from house to house or from
place to place in the city, selling or taking orders for goods, wares, food
items, subscriptions or merchandise for future delivery.
      (2)   The term SOLICITOR shall not include the following groups of
persons.
         (a)   Farmers, fruit growers or gardeners who sell the produce of
their farm, orchard, vineyard, from a stand.
         (b)   Sellers or deliverers of newspapers.
         (c)   Representatives of civic, patriotic, fraternal, educational or
charitable organizations.
         (d)   Students attending schools in Grayville or within a 20-mile
radius of Grayville, selling items for scholastic fundraising projects.
   STAND. Any table, showcase, bench, rack, pushcart, wagon or any other
wheeled vehicle or device which may be moved without the assistance of a motor
and which is not required to be licensed and registered with the Secretary of
State of Illinois.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may engage in the business of a solicitor within the Grayville
corporate limits, without first obtaining a license from the City of Grayville
to do so.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for solicitor's license shall be made in writing to the
Grayville City Clerk, which shall require the following:
      (1)   The name of the individual applying for the license;
      (2)   The residence, telephone number and driver's license number of the
applicant;
      (3)   The address of the principal place of business of the applicant and
its telephone number;
      (4)   If the applicant is employed by another person or entity, the name
of the employer, its address and telephone number;
      (5)   The type of goods, wares, food items or merchandise to be sold or
offered for sale;
      (6)   The location where the applicant plans to sell his goods, wares,
food items or merchandise;
      (7)   The time period for which the license is being requested, not to
exceed 30 days; and
      (8)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a criminal offense or
ordinance violation (other than traffic or parking offenses) in any
jurisdiction and, if so, a list of such convictions, with date and prosecuting
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide with its application a certificate of
insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Illinois,
insuring the applicant for liability for damages for personal injury and
property damage caused by the negligence of the solicitor/peddler while
carrying out its activities under the license issued by the city, except as
otherwise prohibited by law. The certificate must state that it will not be
cancelled during the period the license is in effect, and will provide coverage
for personal injury of not less than $500,000 per person and $1,000,000 per
occurrence, and property damage up to $100,000.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20)
§ 114.04 FEES.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay to the City of Grayville when filing an
application, a fee of $25. Should the application be denied, the license fee
shall be refunded to the applicant.
   (B)   No fee shall be required when the applicant is a group or person:
      (1)   Who sells goods, wares, food items, or merchandise on city owned
public grounds as part of an event which has been approved by the City of
Grayville; or
      (2)   Who sells at events which are sponsored by civic, patriotic,
fraternal, educational, religious or benevolent organizations, goods, wares,
food items, or merchandise which they have made themselves, such as handicrafts
and home sewn items.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20)
§ 114.05 POSSESSION AND DISPLAY.
   All licensees shall have in their possession at all times while engaging in
business as a solicitor the license issued to them by the city and shall show
it to any person who requests to see it.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 ISSUANCE.
   The City of Grayville shall issue the license, with copies provided as soon
as possible to the White and Edwards County Sheriff's Departments, running for
the time period set forth in the permit application, unless the City Clerk,
Mayor or Board shall find:
   (A)   That the applicant has been convicted within the last five years of
any offense relating to theft, burglary or fraud; or
   (B)   That the applicant or his employer has had a license issued pursuant
to this chapter, revoked for cause.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20)
§ 114.07 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No one shall engage in the business of a solicitor traveling from
place-to-place within the City of Grayville, including door-to-door residential
solicitations, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   No solicitor shall park or stand within 200 feet of a playground or
school during the time that organized recreational activities are in progress.
   (C)   No person shall engage in the business of peddling at any residence at
which there is displayed upon or near the main entrance door a weatherproof
card, approximately three inches by four inches which states one of the
following:
   NO SOLICITOR INVITED OR NO PEDDLERS INVITED.
   Or words to the same effect.
   (D)   No solicitor shall remain at any residence after being asked by an
occupant to leave.
   (E)   No solicitor shall sell or offer for sale goods, wares or merchandise
other than at the location approved by the city.
   (F)   No solicitor shall leave any stand unattended.
   (G)   No solicitor shall store, park or leave any stand overnight on any
street, sidewalk or public right-of-way.
   (H)   No solicitor shall park any motor vehicle other than in a lawful
parking place in conformance with city and state parking regulations.
   (I)   All solicitors selling food and beverages for immediate consumption
shall have available for public use their own litter receptacle, which is
available for their patrons' use.
   (J)   No solicitor shall leave his location without first picking up,
removing, and disposing of all trash or refuse from the sales made by him.
   (K)   No solicitor shall solicit or conduct business with persons in motor
vehicles.
   (L)   No solicitor shall sell anything other than that which he states in
his license application.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any solicitor's license may be revoked, or suspended for a period not
to exceed one year, by the City of Grayville, if the city shall find after a
hearing:
      (1)   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter, the laws of the State of Illinois, or the ordinances of the city while
engaged in the business as a solicitor, other than traffic or parking offenses.
      (2)   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for a
solicitor's license or an investigation into any such license.
   (B)   Prior to holding a hearing concerning the question of whether a
license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked or suspended, the city
shall give at least ten days written notice to the licensee setting forth the
alleged violations, specifically. The licensee may present evidence at such
hearing and cross-examine witnesses.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to obtain a license in violation of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $150 and no more
than $500. If paid within ten days after receiving a citation for violation of
this chapter, at Grayville City Hall, the fine will be $150.
(Ord. 720, passed 10-27-08; Am. Ord. 897, passed 11-9-20)
CHAPTER 115: RAFFLES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License
   
115.03   Application
   
115.04   Validity of license
   
115.05   Ineligibility for license
   
115.06   Not-for-profit organizations
   
115.07   Limitations
   
115.08   Fees
   
115.09   Approval
   
115.10   Conduct of raffles
   
115.11   Records
   
115.12   Manager’s bond
   
115.13   Suspension; revocation
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civil interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of a higher degree of efficiency in their
respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code of
2012 (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b)), conducted by an organization licensed
under this chapter, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or be
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for
the purposes of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans of military service, the
primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to confer a public
benefit.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.02 LICENSE.
   License required. No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall conduct
raffles or chances without having first obtained a license therefore pursuant
to this chapter and the Illinois Raffles Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et
seq.).
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications shall be made in writing through the City Clerk’s office
at least 30 days prior to the first day intended for sale of the raffle
chances. The application shall be on a form furnished by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for licenses under this chapter must contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant.
      (2)   Address.
      (3)   Purpose of raffle.
      (4)   Area within the city where the raffle is to be conducted.
      (5)   Time period during which chances will be sold or issued.
      (6)   Sworn statement attesting to not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization, signed by the presiding officer and
secretary of the organization.
      (7)   Date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined.
      (8)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be
awarded by a single raffle.
      (9)   The maximum retail value of each prize or each specific type of
prize to be awarded by a licensee in a single raffle.
      (10)   The maximum to be charged for each raffle chance and the number of
chances to be issued for each raffle.
      (11)   The name(s) and address(es) of the operator of the raffle if not
an officer or member of the applicant organization.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.04 VALIDITY OF LICENSE.
Each such license shall be valid for one raffle or for a specified number of
raffles during a specified period not to exceed one year, and may be suspended
or revoked by the corporate authorities in the event of violation of the terms
of this chapter or of any applicable state law.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.05 INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in division (A), (B)
or (C) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such
a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (A), (B) or (C)
above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined
in the Illinois Raffles Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.).
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.06 NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide not-for-profit religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans’ organizations
as defined in §
115.01, which operate without profit to their members and which have been in
existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license, and which have had during that entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to a
non-profit fund raising organization that the licensing authority determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardships as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.07 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle under this chapter and in accordance with
applicable state law is limited to $250,000.
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle is limited to $200,000.
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold is limited to $100.
   (D)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
is limited to 120 days.
   (E)   Licenses issued shall be valid for one raffle or for a specified
number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one
year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the Illinois Raffles
Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.) or this chapter.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 FEES.
   The fee for such a license to conduct a raffle shall be $0.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.09 APPROVAL.
   The City of Grayville shall, within 30 days, evaluate and either approve or
disapprove of said application. The city’s approval of an application for a
license shall constitute the license for the conduct of the raffle applied for
by the applicant.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
§ 115.10 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   Proceeds. The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that
game.
   (B)   Participation in management. No person except a bona fide member of
the sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation of
the raffle.
   (C)   Remuneration. No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   Premises. A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the
winning chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also
licensed under this chapter.
   (E)   Locations. Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area
specified on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified on the license.
   (F)   Age of participants. No person under the age of 18 years may
participate in the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of
18 years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
   (G)   Location for determining winning chance(s). The location of the
premises on which to determine the winning chance or chances in a raffle shall
be restricted to a business district, commercial district or where a special
use permit has been granted for a school, church, government or similar
institution.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
such records and shall also keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which chances are
determined.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conduced by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefore issued by the Department of Revenue of the State
of Illinois, and shall be placed in a separate account. Each organization shall
have separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be
the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the city, its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved three years, and
organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 MANAGER’S BOND.
   All operations of and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager or operator
of the raffle must be a bona fine member of the organization holding the
license for such a raffle and may not receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in the sum of the total value of the prizes to be awarded
in the raffle conditioned upon his or her honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the city not less than 30 days prior to its
cancellation. The city may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver
provision in the license issued to an organization under this chapter, provided
that a license containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by
unanimous vote of the members of the City Council.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   Any license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
city at any time if appears that the proposed or actual operation of the raffle
will be or is such as to constitute a public nuisance or to endanger the public
peace, health, safety or welfare. Any license granted under this chapter may be
suspended or revoked in whole or in part at any time that the raffle is
conducted contrary to the license or to any state or city law, or when such
raffle or portion thereof is conducted so as to constitute a public nuisance or
to disturb the peace, health, safety or welfare. Suspension or revocation shall
become effective immediately. It shall be a violation for any person to
operate, engage or participate in, except as a patron, any raffle which license
has been suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any raffle license issued under this chapter shall be revoked or suspended
if the permit holder violates any terms of the license or any other provisions
of this chapter. Any violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine up to
$750. Each day that a violation hereof exists shall be considered a separate
offense. Each raffle held in violation hereof shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 786, passed 6-23-14)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
      
138.   SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action. (ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender. (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§ 2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this city or state. (ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or engage in
that conduct.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the statute defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the statute defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed wilfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term "willfully", unless the statute
clearly requires another meaning.
   (C)   When the law provides that acting knowingly suffices to establish an
element of an offense, that element also is established if a person acts
intentionally.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a statute using the term wantonly,
unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an attempt when, with intent
to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act which constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility.  It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   A person convicted of an attempt may be fined not to exceed the
maximum provided for the offense attempted. If such fine exceeds that set forth
in §
130.99 below, however, the city shall enforce said offense under the provisions
of state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment
   
131.02   Trespass to real property
   
131.03   Damaging city property
§ 131.01 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy, or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine, or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1(a)(8), (9)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within or
on a building;
      (2)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to the
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
      (3)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart;
      (4)   Presents false documents or falsely represents his or her identity
orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to obtain
permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building or on
the land;
      (5)   Intentionally removes a notice posted on residential real estate as
required by subsection (l) of Section 15-1505.8 of Article XV of the Code of
Civil Procedure (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1505.8(l)) before the date and time
set forth in the notice; or
      (6)   Enters a field used or capable of being used for growing crops, an
enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock, or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped, or any other powered two-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to the entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry
is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
      (7)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, this section shall
not apply to being in a building which is open to the public while the building
is open to the public during its normal hours of operation; nor shall this
section apply to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable
belief that the building is still open to the public.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of division (A) of this section if he or she has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing including a valid court order as
defined by subsection (7) of Section 112A-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
of 1963 (ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-3(7)) granting remedy (2) of subsection
(b) of Section 112A-14 of that Code (ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-14(b)(2)), or
if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously
posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part
thereof.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on this land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if
he or she beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial
properties located within any municipality.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate:
         (a)   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least
two years; and
         (b)   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at
least one year.
      (3)   BEAUTIFIES means to landscape, clean up litter, or to repair
dilapidated conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages
to the owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property
which that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) above.
      (2)   Mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee exceptions.
         (a)   A mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing, or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
         (b)   No mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing,
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (E)(2) only, ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of
the mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in § 15-1200.5 of Article XV of the Code of
Civil Procedure (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1200.5).
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division
(F), EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or
is reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
   (G)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not apply to a peace officer or
other official of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (H)   A violation of division (A)(1) through (4) above is a Class B
misdemeanor. A violation of division (A)(5) is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (I)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(5) of this section. A person may also be liable to the owner
for court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. The measure of damages shall
be:
      (1)   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in Sections 3.11
and 3.14 of the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act;
      (2)   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified the
person to cease trespassing; or
      (3)   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50. If
the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the owner of the
vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly and severally
liable. For the purposes of this division (H):
         LAND includes, but is not limited to, land used for crop land, fallow
land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil nature
preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or private
roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
         OWNER means the person who has the right to possession of the land,
including the owner, operator or tenant.
         VEHICLE has the same meaning as provided under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-217 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3(a), (b), (c) - (i)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any city property without the city’s consent.
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage city property
without the city’s consent.
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on city land without the consent of the
city.
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on city land or in a city building any stink bomb
or any offensive-smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere with the
use by the city of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including, but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
      (3)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the Collection
Agency Act or as an employee of such collection agency, and while attempting to
collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is
designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor;
      (4)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act or the ID/DD
Community Care Act; or
      (5)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report under Article
II of "An Act in relation to victims of violence and abuse", approved September
16, 1984, as amended; or
      (6)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to any public
safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe that
transmitting such a report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the
public.
   (B)   Sentence.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a Class C
misdemeanor. A violation of division (A)(5) or (A)(6) of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor. A violation of division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section
is a Class B misdemeanor.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a Business
Offense and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $3,000.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of disorderly conduct to perform community
service for not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours, if community service
is available in the jurisdiction and is funded and approved by the county board
of the county where the offense was committed. In addition, whenever any person
is placed on supervision for an alleged offense under this section, the
supervision shall be conditioned upon the performance of the community service.
      (2)   This division does not apply when the court imposes a sentence of
incarceration.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   (B)   Curfew defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under division (A)
that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   (C)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in division (B) is present.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
         (c)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile crash, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a petty offense with a fine of
not less than $10 nor more than $500, except that neither a person who has been
made a ward of the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (705 ILCS 405),
nor that person’s legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In addition to
or instead of the fine imposed by this section, the court may order a parent,
legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section to perform community service as determined by the court, except
that the legal guardian of a person subject to delinquency proceedings or who
has been made a ward of the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not
be ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established for
the performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian, or other
person convicted of a violation of division (A) above shall not conflict with
the dates and times that the person is employed in his or her regular
occupation. Fines and assessments, such as fees or administrative costs, shall
not be ordered or imposed against a minor under the age of 18 transferred to
adult court or excluded from juvenile court jurisdiction under Article V of the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987, or the minor's parent, guardian, or legal
custodian.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) - (e))
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER, OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   A person who knowingly:
      (1)   Resists arrest, or
      (2)   Obstructs the performance by one known to the person to be a peace
officer, firefighter, or correctional institution employee of any authorized
act within his or her official capacity commits a Class A misdemeanor.
      (3)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer,
firefighter, or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a minimum
of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community service
for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court. The person shall
not be eligible for probation in order to reduce the sentence of imprisonment
or community service.
      (4)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer, firefighter, or
correctional institution employee is guilty of a Class 4 felony, to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE means
any person employed to supervise and control inmates incarcerated in a
penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of correction,
police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or place for the
incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses or awaiting
trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a violation of
probation, a violation of parole, a violation of aftercare release, a violation
of mandatory supervised release, or awaiting a hearing or preliminary hearing
on setting the conditions of pretrial release, or who are sexually dangerous
persons or who are sexually violent persons; and FIREFIGHTER means any
individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a regularly constituted fire
department of a municipality or fire protection district who performs fire
fighting duties, including, but not limited to, the fire chief, assistant fire
chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person, hose person, pipe person, and
any other member of a regularly constituted fire department. FIREFIGHTER also
means a person employed by the Office of the State Fire Marshal to conduct
arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building, or
other structure to rescue or to attempt to rescue any person.
   (D)   A person shall not be subject to arrest for resisting arrest under
this section unless there is an underlying offense for which the person was
initially subject to arrest.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly reasonably fail to aid a
person known by him to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   A person commits tampering with public notice when he or she knowingly and
without lawful authority alter, destroy, deface, remove, or conceal any public
notice posted according to law, during the time for which the notice was to
remain posted.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9(a)) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      (3)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE, for purposes of this section, means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
   (C)   Sentence. Public indecency is a Class A misdemeanor. A person
convicted of a third or subsequent violation for public indecency is guilty of
a Class 4 felony, to be prosecuted by appropriate state law. Public indecency
is a Class 4 felony if committed by a person 18 years of age or older who is on
or within 500 feet of elementary or secondary school grounds when children are
present on the grounds.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Sentence. Obscenity is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent
offense is a Class 4 felony, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement or possession of a mold,
engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (F)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (G)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse, when, taken as a whole, it:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value
for minors.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical
contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if such person be a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when he
or she:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to, or
gives away to a minor, knowing that the minor is under the age of 18 or failing
to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person's true age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation; or
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person's true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver's license, birth
certificate or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
      (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of such organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
      (5)   That an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminated in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, Internet
or similar means of communication, and delivery of such harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, Internet or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: "NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age
of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the State."
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom such material was sold, lent, distributed or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent offense is a Class 4 felony, to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (F)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or in
writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or offers
to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not actually
his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing, or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor. If that person utilized a computer web camera, cellular
telephone, or any other type of device to manufacture the harmful material,
then each offense is a Class 4 felony, to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (H)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers, and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, Internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage, or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services, or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
Cross-reference:
   Video gaming, see
Ch. 113
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACCESS and COMPUTER have the meanings ascribed to them in Section 16D-2 of
the Criminal Code of 1961 (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16D-2).
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won, or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment, or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this division (3), a CRANE GAME
is an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively
with merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to
toys, novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value
which is not more than $25.
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this division (4), a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing, or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon, or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical, or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon, or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player.
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score.
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded.
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $25.
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens, and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $25.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment, or licensed veterans establishment licensed in accordance with
the Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40).
   INTERNET means an interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system, or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the Internet, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under Section 5g of the Illinois Banking Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 5, § 5g),
Section 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 205, § 7008), Section
42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 305, § 42.7), Section
5136B of the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 25a), or Section 4 of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
city, he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B);
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or
any political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to Section 8 of the
Illinois Securities Law of 1953, or by or through a person exempt from such
registration under said Section 8, of a put, call, or other option to buy or
sell securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which
are exempt from such registration under Section 3 of the Illinois Securities
Law of 1953 is not gambling within the meaning of this division (4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the courses of a bet or
wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell,
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell, or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document, or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticker or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an Internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the Internet. This division (12) does not apply to activities referenced in
items (B)(6), (6.1), (8.1) and (15) of this section.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40), by manufacturers, distributors,
and terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.);
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with Illinois
Lottery Law (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.). This exemption includes any
activity conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets
pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Lottery Law and its rules;
      (6.1)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the state under the program established in Section 7.12 of
the Illinois Lottery Law (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 1605, § 7.12);
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.);
      (8.1)   The purchase of raffle chances for a raffle conducted in
accordance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.); and
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull
Tabs and Jar Games Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.); and
      (11)   Gambling games when authorized by the Illinois Gambling Act (ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.);
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, licensed large
truck stop establishment, or licensed veterans establishment when conducted in
accordance with the Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40); and
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate.
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under Section 5g of the
Illinois Banking Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 5, § 5g), Section 7008 of the Savings
Bank Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 205, § 7008), Section 42.7 of the Illinois Credit
Union Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 305, § 42.7), Section 5136B of the National Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 25a), or Section 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C.
1463).
      (15)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act.
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under this section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a), (b), (d)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the Illinois
Gambling Act, the Sports Wagering Act, or the Video Gaming Act. Any person who
knowingly permits any premises or property owned or occupied by him or under
his control to be used as a gambling place commits a Class A misdemeanor. Each
subsequent offense is a Class 4 felony, to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   Such premises is a public nuisance and may be proceeded against as
such;
      (2)   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the state or any
subdivision or public agency thereof authorizing the serving of food or liquor
on such premises shall be void; and no license, permit or certificate so
cancelled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of 60 days
thereafter; nor shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be
reissued such license for one year from his conviction and, after a second
conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be reissued
such license; and
      (3)   Such premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for, and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by city
authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot
machine and includes any machine or device constructed for the reception of
money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return or cause someone
to return on chance to the player thereof money, property, or a right to
receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed for
gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use thereof.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a),(b))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
136.01 through
136.07 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings, or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et
seq., motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any
nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to injure any
person or create a traffic hazard, potentially infectious medical waste as
defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360 of the Environmental Protection Act; or
anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded,
abandoned, or otherwise disposed of improperly. (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3(a))
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Chapter 70 of this Code of Ordinances.
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this city, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this village unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state Pollution
Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including but not limited to potentially infectious
medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360, when the emergency
situation no longer exists.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4)
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense committed after the
first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, at the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, § 50.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a), (d))
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river,
lake, pond, stream, or body of water in this city except as permitted under §
136.02 (A)(1) through (5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5)
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense committed after the
first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, at the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, § 50.
      (3)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person
who is convicted of violating this section.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a), (d), (e))
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of
another person.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6)
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $750.
      (2)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, at the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, § 50.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a), (d))
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating this section. If the owner or person in control of the property has
placed litter receptacles on his property but the number or size of the
receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people
coming on or using his property as indicated by the condition and appearance of
that property, and the owner or person in control has failed to provide
sufficient or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made aware of
that fact by written notice from the police, he shall be fined $25 for each
receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10)
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(c))
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 through
16.3
   Boarding aircraft with weapons, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 545, §§ 0.01 through 7
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess or carry any bludgeon, black-
jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle weapon
regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly referred
to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike blade
as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed gas;
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
      (3)   Carry on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non- lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
      (4)   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person except when on his land or in his own abode, legal dwelling, or fixed
place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as
an invitee with that person's permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun, or
taser or other firearm, except that this subsection does not apply to or affect
transportation of weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state; or
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible; or
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid Firearm Owner’s Identification Card.
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act (ILCS Ch. 430, Act 66) by a person who has been issued a
currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act; or
      (5)   Set a spring gun;
      (6)   (a)   Carry or possess any firearm, stun gun or taser or other
deadly weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or
at any public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental
body or any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a
place where a showing, demonstration, or lecture involving the exhibition of
unloaded firearms is conducted;
         (b)   This subsection does not apply to any auction or raffle of a
firearm held pursuant to a license or permit issued by a governmental body, nor
does it apply to persons engaged in firearm safety training courses;
      (7)   Sell, manufacture, deliver, import, possess, or purchase any
assault weapon attachment or .50 caliber cartridge in violation of state law or
any explosive bullet. For purposes of this division, EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the
projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an
explosive charge which will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or
an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at
the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellant contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap; or
      (8)   Carry or possess on or about his person, upon any public street,
alley, or other public lands within the corporate limits of a city, village or
incorporated town, except when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose
of the display of such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when
on his land or in his own abode, legal dwelling, or fixed place of business, or
on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an invitee with that
person's permission, any pistol, revolver, stun
gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(8) does not apply
to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible;
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid Firearm Owner's Identification Card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act (ILCS Ch. 430, Act 66) by a person who has been issued a
currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act; or
      (9)   Carry or possess on or about his or her person while in a building
occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like character,
or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon. For the
purposes of this section, BILLY CLUB means a short stick or club commonly
carried by police officers which is either telescopic or constructed of a solid
piece of wood or other man-made material.
   (B)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in division (A), means:
      (1)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of wire
and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting
the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him incapable of
normal functioning; or
      (2)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out a current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in
such a manner as to render him incapable of normal functioning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1) - (5), (8), (10), (11), (13)) Penalty, see §
 
130.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; possession of
weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or possession of weapons on school or
university grounds (all of which are felonies), see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-
1(a)(6), (7), and (9) and § 24-1(c)(2) respectively
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section 137.01(A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(8), and (A)(9) do not apply to or
affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace, while actually engaged in
assisting such officer.
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment.
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and watchmen while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment.
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives, or private alarm contractors, or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004
(ILCS Ch. 225, Act 447), while actually engaged in the performance of the
duties of their employment or commuting between their homes and places of
employment. A person shall be considered eligible for this exemption if he or
she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor, or employee of a
licensed private security contractor, private detective, or private alarm
contractor agency and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been
issued a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this division (A)(5) shall be the same as for those cards
issued under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private
Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control
card shall be carried by the private security contractor, private detective, or
private alarm contractor, or employee of the licensed private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency at all times
when he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her
firearm control card
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to such commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that such security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this Section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the security guard at all times when he or she is in possession
of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(3) and (A)(4), while on duty in the course of any investigation for
the Commission.
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to such financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution, and who,
as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation; provided that any person
so employed has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and
supervised by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which includes theory of law
enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of weapons. A person shall be
considered to be eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the
required 20 hours of training for a security officer and 28 hours of required
firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control card by the Department
of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for renewal of firearm
control cards issued under the provisions of this division (A)(8) shall be the
same as for those issued under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private
Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The
firearm control card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when
he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her
firearm control card. For purposes of this division (A)(8), FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association, credit union or company
providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car, while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 2910).
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to Section 7.06 of the
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Act (ILCS Ch. 725, Act 210, § 7.06).
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under
Section 3-9005 of the Counties Code (ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005).
      (12.5)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 710).
      (13)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties, or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff.
      (13.5)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear
energy, storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and
training mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.
      (14)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under divisions (A)(1) through (13.5) of this section to possess
those weapons.
   (B)   Section 137.01(A)(4) and (A)(8) do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges.
      (2)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor.
      (3)   Hunters, trappers or fishermen while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code.
      (4)   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a non-functioning
state or are not immediately accessible.
      (5)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person’s permission.
   (C)   Section 137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession or
carrying of a black-jack or slung-shot by a peace officer.
   (D)   Section 137.01(A)(6) does not apply to any owner, manager or
authorized employee of any place specified in that division nor to any law
enforcement officer.
   (E)   Section 137.01(A)(4) and (A)(8) do not apply to members of any club or
organization organized for the purpose of practicing shooting at targets upon
established target ranges, whether public or private, while using their
firearms on those target ranges.
   (F)   Section 137.01(A)(4) and (A)(10) do not apply to or affect any person
carrying a concealed pistol, revolver, or handgun and the person has been
issued a currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act (ILCS
Ch. 430, Act 66) at the time of the commission of the offense.
   (G)   Section 137.01(A)(7) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
      (2)   Bonafide collectors of antique or surplus military ordinance.
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordinance.
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (G)(1) of this section, or like organizations and persons outside this
state, or the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person
exempted in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by
an exempted manufacturer.
   (H)   Section 137.01(A)(4) and (A)(8) do not apply to or affect any parole
agent or parole supervisor who meets the qualifications and conditions
prescribed in Section 3-14-1.5 of the Unified Code of Corrections (ILCS Ch.
730, Act 5, § 3-14-1.5).
   (I)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negative any exemptions contained in this
subchapter. The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (J)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession, of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
of the State of Illinois or the federal government, where such transportation,
carrying, or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which such
common carrier is engaged; and nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply
to, or affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol,
revolver, stun gun, taser, or other firearm, not the subject of and regulated
by division (C) of this section, which is unloaded and enclosed in a case,
firearm carrying box, shipping box, or other container, by the possessor of a
valid Firearm Owners Identification Card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2(a), (a-5), (b), (d) - (g), (g-6), (h), (i))
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent, and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
      (4)   He or she has been a patient in a mental institution within the
past five years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her
possession. For purposes of this division (A)(4):
         MENTAL INSTITUTION means any hospital, institution, clinic, evaluation
facility, mental health center, or part thereof, which is used primarily for
the care or treatment of persons with mental illness.
         PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION means the person was admitted, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness;
      (5)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet. For
the purposes of this section, EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of
an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which
will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE 
means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and
a cap or primer at the rear end thereof with the propellent contained in the
tube between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping, or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code or the Fish and Aquatic Life Code.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized shall be confiscated by the trial court.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6(a))
CHAPTER 138: SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Unlawful sale or delivery of synthetic substances
   
138.03   Unlawful possession of synthetic substances
 
   
138.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Street names of synthetic alternative drugs
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any laboratory-created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog containing a
cannabinoid receptor agonist, such as:
      (1)   JWH-007 (l-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(l naphthoy)indole);
      (2)   JWH-015 (2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-dndol-3-y1)-1-naphthalenymethanone);
      (3)   JWH-018 (l-pentyl-3-(l-naphtoyl)indole);
      (4)   JWH-019 (l-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-l-oyl)indole);
      (5)   Jwh-073 (naphthalen-l-yl-(l-butylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (6)   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-y1-(1-pentylindol-3-y1)methanone);
      (7)   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(l-pentyl-2-methylindol-3-
yl)methanone);
      (8)   JWH-122 (l-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-l-naphthoyl)indole);
      (9)   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(l-pentylindol-3-y1)methanone;
      (10)   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-l-
ylmethanone);
      (11)   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-l-(l-pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone;
      (12)   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(l-pentylindol-3-y1)methanone;
      (13)   JWH-250 (l-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole);
      (14)   JWH-251 (l-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole);
      (15)   JWH-398 (l-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-l-naphthoyl)indole);
      (16)   HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-2-(2-
methyloctan-2yl)-6a,7,10,10-2-tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-l-ol);
      (17)   HU-211 ((6aS,10aS-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-
2yl)-6a,7,10,10a-l-tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-1-ol);
      (18)   HU-308 ([(lR,2R,5R)-2[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-
7,7-dimethyl-4-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl]methanol);
      (19)   HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2- [(lR,6R)-3-methyl-6-(l-methylethenyl)-2-
cyclohexen-l-yl]-5-pentyl-2,5-cyclohexadiene-l,4-dione);
      (20)   CP 55,940 (2-[lR,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-
5-(2-methyl-octan-2-yl)phenol);
      (21)   CP 47,497 (2-[(R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-
2yl)phenol) and its homologues;
      (22)   WIN 55,212-2 (R-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-
morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo [1,2,3 -de)-1,4-benzoxazin-6-y1]-1-
nepthalenylmethanone);
      (23)   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(l-pentyl-lH-indol-3-yl)methanone);
      (24)   RCS-8 (l-(l-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-lH-indol-3-yl)-2-(2-
methoxyphenyl1)ethanone).
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT. Any compound which is a federally controlled Schedule I
substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and MDEA, including, but not
limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance which have a stimulant effect on the central nervous
system. Upon banning, any of the following substance or substances which
contain the described characteristics shall be considered a SYNTHETIC
STIMULANT:
      (1)   3-Fluoromethcathinone;
      (2)   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: Flephedrone);
      (3)   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC);
      (4)   3,4-Methylenedioxypryrovalerone (other name: MDPV);
      (5)   4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC);
      (6)   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA,PMMC);
      (7)   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC);
      (8)   Ethcathinone;
      (9)   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone,
bk-MBDB);
      (10)   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1);
      (11)   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone);
      (12)   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP);
      (13)   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP);
      (14)   3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name:
MDPPP);
      (15)   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP);
      (16)   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-l,3-dioxal-6-amine) (other name:
MDAI);
      (17)   Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-l-phenyl-1-
propanone by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
         (a)   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy,
alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl, or halide substituents, whether or not further
substituted in the phenyl ring by one or more other univalent substituents;
         (b)   At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
         (c)   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or
methoxybenzyl groups;
         (d)   Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
(Ord. 764, passed 6-25-12)
§ 138.02 UNLAWFUL SALE OR DELIVERY OF SYNTHETIC SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or deliver any
products containing a synthetic cannabinoid or synthetic stimulant.
(Ord. 764, passed 6-25-12) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a product
containing a synthetic cannabinoid or synthetic stimulant.
(Ord. 764, passed 6-25-12) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Individuals 17 years of age or older.
      (1)   Any person 17 years of age or older found to be in violation of §§
138.02 and/or
138.03 shall be subject to a fine of up to $750 for each violation thereof; and
      (2)   Any person 17 years of age or older who violates §§
138.02 and/or
138.03 may, in addition to paying the above fine, be sentenced up to six months
incarceration.
   (B)   Individuals under the age of 17. Any person under the age of 17 who
violates §§
138.02 and/or
138.03 shall pay court costs, and in addition to paying said costs, shall
complete no less than 100 hours of community service.
   (C)   Drug counseling. Notwithstanding age, any individual found in
violation of §§
138.02 and
138.03 must complete drug counseling.
   (D)   Separate violations. Each violation of this chapter, or every day a
violation continues to exist, shall constitute a new and separate violation.
(Ord. 764, passed 6-25-12; Am. Ord. 792, passed 9-22-14)
APPENDIX: STREET NAMES OF SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
POW                         K2 Blueberry                      XTREME Spice
Spice Gold                  Wicked X                          Stinger
Swagger Grape               K2 Summit                         Pulse
Spice Gold                  Love Strawberry                   Mystery
Pulse                       Shanti Spice Blueberry            Bad 2 the Bone
Black Mamba                 Aztec Midnight Wind Tezcatlipoca  Dragon Spice
Naughty Nights              Sativah                           Samurai Spirit
K2 Watermelon               Mid-Atlantic Exemplar (K2 Summit) Buzz
Black Mamba                 Aztec Gold                        Midnight Chill
Green Monkey Chronic Salvia K2 Summit                         K Royal
Voodoo Remix                Ultra Cloud 10                    Spicylicious
G Greenies Caramel Crunch   Colorado Chronic                  Shanti Spice
Black Diamond               K3 Kryptonite                     K3 Grape
Blueberry Hayze             Funky Monkey XXXX                 K3 Strawberry
Eruption Spice              K2 Blue                           K3 Blueberry
Love Strawberry             K2 Blonde                         Earthquake
Voodoo Child                K2 Pink                           Ocean Blue
Mid-Atlantic Exemplar       K2 Citron                         G Four
K2 Summit                   K2 Mellon                         Wood Stock
Magic Dragon of Platinum    K2 Pineapple                      K3 Legal
Fire Bird Ultimate Strength K2 Standard                       Who Dat
Cinnamon
Nitro                       K2 Summit                         Dark Night II
Black Magic Salvia          S1, S Werve                       Spike 99 Ultra
Black Mamba                 Chronic Spice                     2010
K2 Strawberry               K3 Mango                          Zombie World
                           K3 Original                       SYN Swagg
                                                            SYN Smooth
(Ord. 764, passed 6-25-12)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150. BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151. FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152. PLANNING
      
153. ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permit System
   
150.01   Commissioner of Buildings to administer
   
150.02   Permit required; repairs exception
   
150.03   Permit costs
   
150.04   Application requirements
   
150.05   Permit procedures and requirements
   
150.06   Conditions of permit
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.20   Definition
   
150.21   Declared nuisance
   
150.22   Existence of dangerous building prohibited
   
150.23   Abatement procedures
   
150.24   Fire damage
   
150.25   Unknown owners
   
150.26   Duties of Fire Chief; alternative action
   
150.27   Compliance; lien
Buildings and Lots
   
150.35   Numbering of buildings and lots
BUILDING PERMIT SYSTEM
§ 150.01 COMMISSIONER OF BUILDINGS TO ADMINISTER.
   The Building Official appointed hereunder, and charged with the
administration and enforcement of this building permit system is the
Commissioner of Buildings.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75)
§ 150.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; REPAIRS EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, remove or demolish, or to
commence the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of a building,
mobile home or structure or install equipment for the operation of a building
or structure without first filing with the building official an application in
writing and obtaining a formal permit.
   (B)   Repairs may be made without filing an application or obtaining a
permit, unless such repairs amount to a substantial improvement, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the actual cash value of the structure either,
before the improvement is started, or if the structure has been damaged and is
being restored, before the damage occurred.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 PERMIT COSTS.
   Permit costs, under this building permit system, shall be as follows:
   (A)   Permits to demolish - No Fee.
   (B)   Permits to construct, alter, or improve a building or structure, under
§
150.02 of this chapter, no fee.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75)
§ 150.04 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the
building official may prescribe. Such application shall contain the full names
and addresses of the applicant and of the owner, and, if the owner is a
corporate body, of its responsible officer. The application shall also describe
briefly the proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be
required by the building official for an intelligent understanding of the work
proposed.
   (B)   Applications shall be made by the owner or lessee, or agent of either,
or the architect, engineer or builder employed in connection with the proposed
work. If such application is made by a person other than the owner in fee, it
shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner in fee or the
person making the application that the proposed work is authorized by the owner
in fee and that the person making the application is authorized to make such
application.
   (C)   Submitting plans; plot plan.
      (1)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by drawings of the
proposed work, drawn to scale, showing when necessary, floor plans, sections,
elevations, structural details, computations and stress diagrams, as the
building official may require.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75)
      (2)   When required by the building official, there shall be submitted a
plot plan in a form and size designated by the building official for filing
permanently with the permit record, drawn to scale, with all dimensions
figured, showing accurately the size and exact location of all proposed new
construction and the relation to other existing or proposed buildings or
structures on the same lot and other buildings or structures on adjoining
property within eight feet of the property line. In the case of demolition, the
plot plan shall show the buildings or structures to be demolished and the
buildings or structures on the same lot that are to remain.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75; Am. Ord. 352, passed 10-18-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall prohibit the filing of amendments to an
application or to a plan or other record accompanying same, at any time before
the completion of the work for which the permit was issued. Such amendments
shall be filed with and be deemed a part of the original application, if
approved before the certificate of occupancy has been issued, otherwise a new
application for the alteration shall be made and a permit secured.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75)
§ 150.05 PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The building official shall examine applications for permits, within a
reasonable time after filing. If, after examination, he finds no objections to
the same and it appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the
laws and ordinances applicable thereto and the proposed construction of work
will be safe, he shall approve such application and issue a permit for the
proposed work as soon as practicable. If his examination reveals otherwise, he
shall reject such application, note his findings in a written report to be
attached to the application and deliver a copy to the applicant.
   (B)   Nothing in this code shall require changes in the plans, construction
or designated use of a building or structure or portion thereof for which a
lawful permit has been heretofore issued or which has been otherwise lawfully
authorized, and the construction of which shall have been actually begun within
90 days after this code becomes effective and which entire building or
structure shall be completed, as authorized, within two years thereafter.
   (C)   Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall have his signature affixed thereto; but this shall not prevent
him from authorizing a subordinate to affix the building official's signature.
   (D)   The building official may revoke a permit or approval issued in case
there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact
in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
   (E)   Nothing in this code shall be construed to prevent the building
official from issuing a permit for the construction of part of a building or
structure before the entire plans and detailed statements of the building or
structure have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and
detailed statements have been submitted for the same and have been found to
comply with this code.
   (F)   A copy of the permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the prosecution of the work and until the completion of the
same. The building official may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
   (G)   The building official shall be given at least 24 hours notice of the
starting of work under a permit.
   (H)   A permit under which no work is commenced within six months after
issuance shall expire by limitation and a new permit shall be secured before
work is started.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75)
§ 150.06 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   All work performed under a permit issued by the building official
shall conform to the approved application and plans, and approved amendments
thereto. The location of all new construction as shown on the approval plot
plan or an approved amendment thereto, shall be strictly adhered to.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or plot
of which a plot plan has been filed and has been used as the basis for a
permit, unless a revised plot plan showing the proposed changes in conditions
shall have been filed and approved; provided that this shall not apply when the
lot is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening or other public
improvement.
   (C)   No permit to remove a building or structure shall be issued until
notice of application thereof shall have been given to the owners of property
adjoining the property upon which the building or structure is to be moved and
to the owners of wires or other impediments the temporary removal of which will
be necessary, and an opportunity has been given the owners to be heard upon
such application; nor until a bond in an adequate sum has been filed with the
officer of proper authority, to indemnify and save harmless the municipality
from damage.
(Ord. 337, passed 5-19-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 DEFINITION.
   The term DANGEROUS BUILDING as used in this chapter is hereby defined to
mean and include:
   (A)   Any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
of neighboring structures;
   (B)   Any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure which because
of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
   (C)   Any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
   (D)   Any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure which because
of its condition, or because of lack of doors or windows is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68)
§ 150.21 DECLARED NUISANCE.
   Any such dangerous building in the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68)
§ 150.22 EXISTENCE OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the city and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person
in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.23 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   When the Mayor or the health officer shall be of the opinion that any
building or structure in the city is a dangerous building, he shall file a
written statement to this effect with the City Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon
cause written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant
thereof, if any, by registered mail, or by personal service. Such notices shall
state the building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, and that
such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering
the building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied at
once. Such notice may be in the following form:
         To                                   (owner-occupant of premises) of
the premises known and described as:
      You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by                                   .
      You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or
the city will proceed to do so.
   (B)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied herewith or taken
an appeal to the Council from the determination of the Mayor or Health Officer
finding that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when
this notice is served upon such person by personal service or by registered
mail, the Mayor, upon orders of the Council will proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the dangerous building.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.24 FIRE DAMAGE.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the fire limits of the city as
hereinbefore prescribed which has or may be damaged by fire, decay, or other
cause to the extent of 50% of its value, shall be torn down and removed.
   (B)   Upon written notice by the Mayor or the Health Officer filed with the
City Clerk, the Clerk shall notify the Council of the receipt of such notice.
The Council shall then appoint a committee of three persons to determine
whether or not such building or structure has been damaged to the extent of 50%
of its value.
   (C)   Copy of the notice of the appointment of this committee of three
persons to determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises
by personal service or by registered mail to his last known address.
   (D)   Such notice shall be in substantially the following form:
         To                                 :
         You are hereby notified that                                  has
determined that the building owned by you at                            located
within the city limits of the city has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise
to the extent of 50% of its value and that a committee of three members has
been appointed to verify this finding, which committee will hold its first
meeting in the City Hall, 101 South Main Street, Grayville, Illinois, on the
            day of                    at the hour of               o'clock, at
which time it will determine whether this finding is correct.
         If this finding is verified by the committee, you must tear down and
remove the building.
   (E)   If the committee of three members determines that the building in
question has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, it shall be the
duty of the owner to tear down or remove the building within 30 days after the
finding of the committee; and it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit such
building to be occupied after such finding.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68) see Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.25 UNKNOWN OWNERS.
   If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown, or if his address is
unknown, service of any notice provided for in this chapter may be made by
posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing one time a copy
thereof in a newspaper published within the municipality.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68)
§ 150.26 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF; ALTERNATIVE ACTION.
   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this chapter, the
Chief of the Fire Department or any other municipal official whose duty it is
to investigate fires, may make the investigations authorized by the statute
found in ILCS Ch. 425, Act 25, §§ 9 through 14. If such officer shall find that
any building or structure is so occupied or situated as to endanger persons or
property, or by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of repair or for any
other cause is especially capable to fire, or is cable to cause injury by
collapsing or otherwise, he shall order the dangerous condition removed or
remedied, and shall so notify the owner or occupant of the premises. Service of
such notice may be in person or by registered mail, and any person so notified
may appeal from the decision of such officer in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68)
§ 150.27 COMPLIANCE; LIEN.
   If the owner does not remedy the conditions complained of, or demolish the
dangerous building involved, the city at its option may do so; thereupon the
city shall be entitled to recover its costs and expenses incurred from the
owner by a suit in any court of competent jurisdiction; the city shall also
have a lien upon the real estate on which the building was being maintained for
the full amount of its costs and expenses, which lien may be foreclosed as a
mechanic lien; in the event of such foreclosure, the city shall be entitled to
recover an additional sum equal to any abstract expenses, court costs and
reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-13-68)
BUILDINGS AND LOTS
§ 150.35 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND LOTS.
   (A)   Each building, whether residence or business within the city, shall
have a street number with reference to the street on which such building and
lot fronts. However, street numbers shall not be required for accessory
structures of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the use of the
main building on its lot.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of each building within the corporate limits
shall display the street number of such building in numerals clearly visible
from the street on which such building fronts. Such numerals shall be at least
three inches in height and shall be placed on the front of each building, or on
a porch, pole, or other sign in the front of such building provided that such
numerals are clearly visible from the street.
   (C)   The failure of any owner or occupant of a building within the city to
display the street number of such building or lot in compliance with this
section shall be deemed in violation of this section. After investigation, the
Chief of Police or his designee may determine a violation of the minimum
requirements of this section exists and shall notify such owner or occupant in
writing of such violation. If such owner or occupant fails after ten days to
correct the violation, such owner or occupant upon conviction shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day in
which an owner or occupant of a building fails to comply with this section
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 731, passed 7-27-09)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Base flood elevation
   
151.04   Duties of the responsible official
   
151.05   Development permit
   
151.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
151.07   Protecting buildings
   
151.08   Subdivision requirements
   
151.09   Public health and other standards
   
151.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
151.11   Variances
   
151.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2,
11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to real estate including, but not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
      (2)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days per year;
      (4)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects;
      (5)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
      (6)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving,
or other alterations of the ground surface; and/or
      (7)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the city, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be
annexed into the city that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the city are generally identified as such on panels 75, 88, and
200 of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of White County prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 16, 2011 and on panel 75
of the Flood Insurance Rate Map of Edwards County prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated December 1, 1984. The floodplains of the
city and also shown on the flood insurance rate map of the city prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 24, 1984. FLOODPLAIN also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
      (2)   The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated White and Edwards
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that
may be annexed into the city are generally identified as such on the flood
insurance rate maps prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for
White County dated February 16, 2011 and Edwards County dated December 7, 1984.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway shall be according to the best data available from
federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department. (Ill. Admin. Code title
17, pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
151.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
151.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS BUILDINGS (see definition herein).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Wabash River shall
be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide Flood
Insurance Study of White County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated February 16, 2011.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH
Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Maps of White and Edwards Counties.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Maps of White
and Edwards shall be according to the best data available from federal, state
or sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed
by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated White and Edwards Counties that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the city,
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance
Study of White County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated February 16, 2011.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF THE RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL.
   The Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be responsible for the
general administration of this chapter and ensure that all development
activities within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the
requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the Chairman of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
151.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
151.07 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or flood proof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
151.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
151.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
151.13 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not issue a development permit if
the proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall compare the elevation of the site
to the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by
survey elevation to be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. In addition, any development located on land shown
to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood
source, but not identified as floodplain on the current flood insurance rate
map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter. Any development located on
land that can be shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood
elevation and which has not been filled after the date of the site's first
flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Flood insurance rate map is subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   The Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's first flood insurance rate map identification.
      (4)   The Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be responsible
for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not issue a
permit unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13; and
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All buildings. In addition to the state permit and damage prevention
requirements of §
151.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure
must meet the flood protection standards of this section within 24 months of
the date the damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage).
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide
a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood proofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Flood proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
flood proofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) of this section; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) of this
section unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet.
      (6)   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model.
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24' x 24').
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are known,
in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
151.06 and
151.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
151.06 and
151.07 the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
151.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater. Flood
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated
to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities in writing 30
days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the fioodplain.
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      (6)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
151.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
151.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in HISTORIC
STRUCTURES, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements
of §§
151.06 and
151.07 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the.structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   Agriculture.
      (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at-grade and wet-floodproofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community's flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
151.07.
         (d)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in
accordance with §
151.07. All of the building's structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
151.07.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
151.07(B).
         (g)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
151.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet-flood proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including:
Ordinance Number 423 passed June 4, 1984. However, this chapter does not repeal
the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the
program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Municipal Attorney may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
Municipal Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Attorney shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The Municipal Attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in
writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The
stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-28-11)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
   
152.01   Policy
   
152.02   Approval by engineering firm
   
152.03   City to provide utility connections
   
152.04   Development of annexation
   
152.05   Residential anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan
§ 152.01 POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the city to encourage development of
residential growth in an orderly and planned fashion.
   (B)   It shall be the stated official policy of the city to annex with due
diligence after compliance with all requisites of this chapter and other
municipal ordinances and all other applicable statutes and rules new
subdivisions and developments contiguous to existing boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-30-80)
§ 152.02 APPROVAL BY ENGINEERING FIRM.
   Favorable action upon any annexation, petition by a developer of a
subdivision or owner of particular property within any such subdivision, shall
not be taken by the city until the engineering firm or engineer then retained
by the municipality shall have given full approval of compliance by such
developer with all reasonable standards concerning streets, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, sanitary and storm sewers and gas and water lines throughout such
subdivision.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-30-80)
§ 152.03 CITY TO PROVIDE UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   The municipality shall upon annexation provide municipal utility hook-ups to
the water and sewer lines specified herein provided by the developer. Should
adequate supplies, in the official opinion of the Gas Commissioner, of natural
gas exist, the municipality shall also provide natural gas to those land owners
within such subdivision desiring and requesting it.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-30-80)
§ 152.04 DEVELOPMENT OF ANNEXATION.
   Developments or subdivisions may be made divisible under this chapter and a
portion thereof may be developed earlier or later than some other portion, but
such development shall be in an orderly and symmetrical fashion in such fashion
that no portion of the undeveloped portion of the subdivision or development
shall lie between or among developed portions. For the purposes of this section
DEVELOPED shall mean those portions of which the property owners or developer
are requesting annexation by the municipality, and UNDEVELOPED shall mean those
portions of the development or subdivision for annexation of which the property
owner or developer has not yet petitioned.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-30-80)
§ 152.05 RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The city will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low to
moderate-income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than as
low to moderate-income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with
funds provided under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the city will make public and submit to DCCA the following
information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low to moderate income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low/moderate income dwelling unit for at least 10 years from the date
of initial occupancy.
   (C)   The city will provide relocation assistance, as described in the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, to each low-to-moderate income
household displaced by the demolition of housing or by the conversion of a low-
to-moderate income dwelling to another use as a direct result of assisted
activities.
   (D)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, the city will take the following steps to minimize the displacement of
persons from their homes:
      (1)   Minimize or eliminate any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low to
moderate income persons; and
      (2)   Advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as opposed to
demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Res. 547, passed - - ; Am. Res. 592, passed 5-24-99)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Intent and purpose
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Establishing districts; zoning map; boundaries
   
153.005   Storm water management
Agricultural District
   
153.015   AG Agricultural District regulations
Residential Districts
   
153.025   R-1 Single-Family Residence District regulations
   
153.026   R-2 Single-Family Residence District regulations
Mobile Home District or Park
   
153.040   MH Mobile Home District or Park regulations
Business Districts
   
153.050   C-1 Local Business District regulations
   
153.051   C-2 Central Business District regulations
Industrial Districts
   
153.065   I-1 Industry District regulations
General Regulations and Standards
   
153.075   Home occupation
   
153.076   Temporary non-residential occupancy
   
153.077   Signs and outdoor advertising structures
   
153.078   Accessory buildings and uses
   
153.079   Property development standards
   
153.080   Nonconforming building and use specifications
   
153.081   Telecommunications towers
   
153.082   Temporary residential occupancy of recreational vehicles
   
153.083   Adult-use cannabis
Off-Street Parking
   
153.090   Purpose
   
153.091   Existing uses
   
153.092   Schedule of parking requirements
   
153.093   Other regulations and requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.105   Administration Officer; Zoning Board
   
153.106   Variations
   
153.107   Special use permits
   
153.108   Amendments and changes
   
153.109   Public hearing procedures
   
153.110   Improvement location permits
   
153.111   Fees schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the Grayville Zoning
Chapter.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To divide the city into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business, manufacturing
and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within the city and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   (D)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air and to protect the public health;
   (F)   To establish building lines and the locations of buildings designed
for residential, business and manufacturing or other uses to which buildings or
other uses within such areas;
   (G)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   (H)   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   (I)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   (J)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
   (K)   To provide for the gradual elimination of non-conforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which affect the character and value of desirable
development in each district;
   (L)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having one or more common boundary lines or district lines.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or USE. A building which is subordinate to and serves a
principal building or principal use, and is subordinate in area, extent, and
purpose to the principal building or principal use served.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise,
and all of size and shape, for the purpose of making anything known, the origin
or place of sale of which is not on the property where such advertising
structure is located.
   AGRICULTURE. The growing, harvesting and storing of crops including legumes,
hay, grain, fruit and truck or vegetable crops, floriculture, horticulture,
viticulture, mushroom growing, orchards' and forestry; farm buildings for
storing and protecting farm machinery and equipment from the elements; and
tenants or seasonal or year around hired farm workers. This definition of
AGRICULTURE includes all types of agricultural operation, but excludes
therefrom animal husbandry and industrial operations such as a grain elevator,
canning or slaughterhouse, wherein agricultural products produced primarily by
others are stored or processed.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation or flight in the air.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land which is used or intended for use for the landing
and taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or right-of-
way, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas,
hangars, and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
   ALTERATION. Any change in size, shape, or character of a building or
structure or change in the use thereof.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires, and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover which projects from the wall of a building and
overhangs into the yard or public or private street.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or wholly below ground
level.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by public streets, or by a combination of
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, shorelines, or
waterways, the corporate limits of the city or other line of demarcation.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
person, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. Measurement of vertical distance from the grade to the top
of the highest roof beams of a flat roof or to the mean level of the highest
gable or slope of a hip roof.
   BULK. A term used to measure, assess and regulate the impact of buildings,
structures or land uses on other nearby buildings, structures or land uses and
includes the following factors:
      (1)   Size and height of buildings;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls and required on-site facilities at all
levels in relation to lot lines, public streets, or to other buildings;
      (3)   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
      (4)   All open spaces allocated to buildings;
      (5)   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit; and
      (6)   Type, amount and location of landscaping and site screening used to
shield or reduce the impact of land uses on surrounding property.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter, usually formed by extension of the roof from
the side of a building which may be open on the sides.
   CAR WASH. A building or portion thereof, containing facilities for washing
motor vehicles, using automatic production-line methods with a chain conveyor,
blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical devices, or providing space,
water,and equipment for the handwashing of autos, whether by the customer or
the operator.
   CONFORMING BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Any building or structure which complies
with all of the regulations of this zoning chapter or of any amendment hereto
governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building or structure is
located.
   CONFORMING USE. Any use which complies with all the regulations specified in
this chapter or any subsequent amendment hereto for the zoning district in
which such use is located.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of a building
measured at the center of such front. Where no curb has been established, the
curb level is the elevation of the centerline of the street adjacent to the lot
on which the building is or is to be located measured at the center point of
the lot frontage.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A premise receiving more than eight children for care
during all or part of a day or night.
   DAY CARE HOME. A dwelling unit in which one or more persons provide care
during the day to not more than eight children. The maximum of eight children
includes all natural, adopted and foster minor children of the residents of the
dwelling unit, plus any other minors who are under full-time care or
supervision in the dwelling unit.
   DORMITORY. A residential building where group sleeping accommodations are
provided for persons not members of the same family and where the number
accommodated exceeds that allowed in a dwelling unit in the district. The group
sleeping accommodations may be in one room or in a series of closely associated
rooms under occupancy and single management as in college dormitories,
fraternity houses, sorority houses, military barracks, and the like, regardless
of whether meals are provided.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the city within which certain
generally uniform regulations and requirements unique thereto, apply under the
provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. A business or institution where the principal use is
either the offering of goods or services directly to customers waiting in
parked motor vehicles or carry-out food service.
   DRIVEWAY. A private accessway for motor vehicles between a public or private
street and one or more structures or off street parking areas.
   DWELLING. A building designed or used principally for residential occupancy
containing one or more dwelling units, including single-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms arranged or designed for the use of one
family living together as a single housekeeping unit with cooking, living,
sanitary and sleeping facilities in a self-contained unit.
   DWELLING UNIT, ATTACHED. One which is not entirely surrounded by open space.
   DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED. One which is entirely surrounded by open space.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit only.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units only.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room together
with bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining area.
   FAMILY. Either one person or two or more persons each related to each other
by blood, marriage or legal adoption, and an aggregate of not more than two
roomers or boarders not related to each other, whether or not gratuitous,
maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit; or a group of not more than
four persons not so related maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit.
   FENCE. A structure other than a building or a portion thereof which is a
barrier and is used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy,
protection or confinement and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal, wire
mesh, masonry, or comparable material.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Any area designated on the Special Flood Hazard map of the
Federal Insurance Administrator designated as having special flood hazards.
   FLOOD BASE ELEVATION. The elevation of the water level at the 100-year flood
level.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the floor
area of a building or buildings by the lot area on which such building(s) are
located.
   FRONTAGE. The measure of lineal contiguity along a public right-of-way as
measured along that right-of-way between a lot or portion thereof and another
lot, public street, alley or public way.
   GRADE. A reference plane representing the average finished ground level
adjoining the building at all exterior walls.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The area of a building in square feet as measured in a
horizontal plane at the ground floor level within its largest outside
dimensions, exclusive of open porches, breeze-ways, terraces, garages, and
exterior stairways, furnace and laundry area.
   HELIPORT. An area of land, water and/or a structure or building which is
used or intended for use for the landing and taking off of helicopters, and any
appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for heliport buildings or
other heliport facilities or right-of-way, including all necessary pads,
helicopter storage and tie down areas, hangars and other necessary buildings
and open spaces.
   HISTORIC AREA. An area containing buildings or places in which historic
events have occurred or which have special public value because of notable
architectural or other features relating to the cultural or artistic heritage
of the community which warrant conservation and preservation.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or professional practice by a member of the
family residing in the dwelling unit, which is clearly an accessory use to the
principal residential use of the dwelling unit and which is listed in §
153.075 of this chapter.
   HOSPITAL. An institution where the sick or injured are given medical or
surgical care.
   HOTEL, MOTEL or INN. An establishment containing lodging accommodation,
designed for use by transients, or travelers, or temporary guests. Facilities
provided may include main service, laundering of linen used on the premises,
telephone and secretarial or desk service, meeting rooms, and restaurants.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where junk waste scrap, used equipment and vehicle
parts, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including but not limited to scrap
iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD
includes automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but does not include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL. Any premises where three or more dogs, cats, or other household
domestic animals over four months of age are owned, boarded, bred or offered
for sale.
   LOT. A parcel, tract or area of land with access from an abutting street for
the full width of the lot, and which is occupied by or principal use together
with any accessory buildings and such yard area as required by this chapter. It
may be a single surveyed parcel separately described in a deed or plot which is
recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or it may include parts of, or a
combination of such surveyed parcels when adjacent to one another and used as
one. In determining lot area and boundary lines no part under water or within
the limits of a street shall be included.
   LOT, AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through front, side and rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
   LOT LINE (PROPERTY LINE).  A boundary line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary line of any lot which is along a dedicated
public street or the occupation line on a non-dedicated public street. On
corner lots the front lot line shall be the boundary line along such street
right-of-way line that is established at the time of application of a building
permit.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from
the front lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the White or Edwards County Recorder of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded on the date
of the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two more or
less parallel public streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a THROUGH LOT
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured within the lot boundary. LOT WIDTH shall be measured at the front lot
line or at the required setback line or cul-de-sac within the lot boundary
behind the required front yard setback line.
   MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit of vehicular, portable design built on a
chassis and designed to be moved from one site to another and capable of being
used with or without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot or lands upon which two or more independent mobile
homes are located either free of charge or for a fee, and shall include any
buildings, structure, tent vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a
part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   MODULAR or MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit intended to be used for
residential occupancy and designed to be located on a permanent foundation as
identified by the Illinois modular seal affixed to the electrical panel box.
   NAMEPLATE. A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name
of an occupant thereof and/or the occupation practiced therein.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Any building or structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, or amendment
thereto, which does not comply with all the regulations of this chapter or any
amendment hereto governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building
or structure is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot of record which when recorded met the minimum lot
area and other dimension requirements of the city, but which through subsequent
amendments to such code or other dimension requirements of the codes is no
longer in conformance.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land, buildings, or structures which use is
not permitted in the zoning district in which such use is located, but which
use was permitted at the time such use was established.
   NURSERY (GREENHOUSE).  A space, building or structure, or combination
thereof for the storage of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for wholesale
or retail sale on the premises, including products used for landscaping and
gardening.
   NURSING HOME. A home for the aged, chronically ill, incurable persons, or a
place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders in which three or more
persons, not members of the immediate family residing on the premises, are
received, kept or provided with food and shelter or care, but not including
hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis
and treatment of disease or injury.
   OBSTRUCTIONS. That which blocks, closes off or cuts off from sight.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying and
selling merchandise, motor vehicles, any form of trailers, mobile homes,
motorized homes, motor scooter, motorcycles, boats, aircraft and monuments, or
for the storing of the same prior to sale.
   PARKING SPACE. A space within a public or private parking area which
contains minimum dimensions of nine feet by 20 feet, exclusive of access drives
or aisles, for the purpose of vehicular storage.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted. A structure that is attached to such a
building in a substantial way, such as by a roof, is considered part of the
principal building.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  A primary use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or special.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A wheeled vehicle or unit, primarily designed for
temporary living quarters, propelled by its own motor, or drawn by another
motorized vehicle. Recreational vehicles include motor homes, travel trailers,
camping trailers and truck campers. Recreational vehicles may not be used as
permanent living quarters. Under certain circumstances described in §
153.082, some recreational vehicles with fixed solid exteriors may be granted a
permit for temporary living quarters in districts zoned as AG, R-1 or MH. As
defined herein, a recreational vehicle that is the subject of an application
for a permit for termporary living quarters must have its own toilet and a
system for sewage disposal. Additionally, the applicant must agree that the
permitted recreational vehicle shall be connected to and use municipal sewer
and water, available electricity and/or municipal gas service.
   RIDING STABLE. The grounds and building where horses are bred, raised,
trained, boarded or kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any residential building, or any part thereof containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to more
than five persons who do not constitute a family.
   ROOMING UNITS. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   ROW HOUSE (TOWN HOUSE).   A multiple-family dwelling containing three or
more attached dwelling units, each on its own plot of ground and joined to one
(end unit) or two (interior units) dwelling units by firewalls. Each dwelling
unit shall occupy the internal space from the ground to the roof.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance between the front lot line and any building
or structure located on such lot.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, illustration or device illuminated or
non-illuminated which is visible from any public place or is located on private
property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a product,
service, place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation,
including any permanently installed or situated merchandise or any emblem
printing, banner, pennant, placard or temporary sign designed to advertise,
identify or convey information, with the exception of window displays and
national, state, county, municipal and religious flags, including foods and
services, offered upon the property on which the sign is located.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A specified use of land or buildings, or both, described
and permitted herein, subject to special provisions, and which because of its
unique characteristics cannot be properly classified as a permitted use, as
provided in §
153.107.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and upper surface of the floor or roof next above. A basement shall be
counted as a STORY.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in
the ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the
addition, removal, or alteration of a bearing wall, columns, beams, girders, or
foundations.
   TOURIST CAMP. A residential facility designed, used, or intended to be used
to accommodate the overnight temporary location, hook-up or use of its
facilities for travel trailers, camp trailers, and RVs.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and
shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
performance standards of this chapter.
   USE, PERMITTED.  A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements and
regulations of such district.
   VARIATION. A deviation from the bulk requirements of the zoning chapter as
provided in §
153.106.
   WAREHOUSE. A structure, part thereof, or area used principally for the
storage of goods and merchandise.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than consumers.
   YARD. An open space, on the same lot with a building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard, required or otherwise, extending along the full length
of the building or structure, including any overhang features, to the front lot
line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard, required or otherwise, extending along the full length
of the rear lot line between the side lot lines, from the rear line of the
building or structure, including any overhang features, to the rear property
line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard, required or otherwise, extending along the side lot line
between the front yard and the rear yard from the side line of the building or
structure, including any overhang features to the side property line.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A side yard which faces a public street.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. That which is located immediately adjacent to another
lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another lot.
   ZONING BOARD. The body authorized to enforce the Grayville Zoning Ordinances
according to the powers and duties listed herein.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A section or sections of incorporated territory of the city
for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot and bulk, or
buildings and premises are uniform.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT. The procedure set forth to change the zoning
district boundaries of the zoning district map portion of this chapter.
   ZONING MAP.  That portion of this chapter showing all of the zoning district
boundaries within the city.
   ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT. The procedure set forth to change the text or written
portion of the chapter.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 641, passed 9-23-02; Am. Ord. 877, passed
9-23-19)
§ 153.004 ESTABLISHING DISTRICTS; ZONING MAPS; BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Establishment. The city is hereby classified and divided into zoning
districts designated as follows:
District Designation Primarily For
District Designation Primarily For
AG                   Agricultural District
R-1                  Single-Family Residence District
R-2                  Single-Family Residence District
MH                   Mobile Home District or Park
C-1                  Local Business District
C-2                  Central Business District
I-1                  General Industry District
 
   (B)   Zoning district map. The zoning district map, which is on file in the
office of the City Clerk, is hereby declared to be a part of this chapter and
shows the boundaries of and the area covered by the zoning districts.
   (C)   Boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries of the districts established by this section are to
extend one-half mile beyond the corporate city limits as shown on the Zoning
Map.
      (2)   When the exact boundaries of a district are uncertain, they shall
be determined by use of the scale of the zoning map.
      (3)   When a right-of-way is vacated, the districts adjoining each side
are respectively extended to the center of the area so vacated.
      (4)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board shall interpret the
intent of the zoning map as to the location of the boundary in question.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.005 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Adequate storm water retention and release/drainage facilities shall
be installed in all subdivisions accepted after the date of passage of this
section, and on the site of all commercial and industrial developments
hereafter constructed, and located within the jurisdictional boundaries of this
chapter, to avoid changes in storm water runoff onto adjacent properties. All
storm water detention and release facilities shall be subject to the approval
of the city engineer, and will be governed by the applicable rules and
regulations of the Illinois Department of Transportation relating to the
issuance of drainage permits for private drainage systems that discharge into
state highways, as amended from time to time. Said IDOT rules and regulations,
and all future amendments and modifications of those rules and regulations, are
incorporated by reference, as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   In each case, the applicant’s proposed facilities for storm water
detention and release must be designed and constructed to prevent overtaxing or
otherwise damaging of the city’s drainage system and the drainage systems of
adjoining landowners.
(Ord. 625, passed 11-13-01)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 153.015 AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The AG District is established to include lands for
agricultural uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the AG
District, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature.
All uses shall be subject to the property development standards in §§
153.015(D) and
153.079.
      Advertising structure
      Commercial greenhouse
      Dwelling, single-family
      Farm, general
      Farm equipment, sales and service
      Home occupation
      Municipal or government building
      Public park or recreational facilities
      Railroad right-of-way and necessary uses
      Roadside produce sales stand
      School, public or private
      Signs
      Warehouse and storage of grain, seed and dry fertilizer, including grain
storage and          drying facilities.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted by special use
permit, as provided for in §
153.107.
      Airport
      Anhydrous ammonia, or similar liquified fertilizer, and bulk fertilizer
storage and distribution (commercial)
      Asphalt or asphaltic concrete batching plant
      Assembly halls for use by non-profit organizations
      Auction sales yard
      Bottled gas, storage and distribution
      Bulk storage of petroleum products
      Camping facilities
      Cemetery
      Church
      Contractor's storage yard
      Country club or golf course
      Farm, confinement feeding
      Kennel
      Lodge or private club
      Machine shop
      Mineral extraction (not inside city limits or within 600 feet of such)
      Private recreational development
      Race track (outdoor)
      Riding stable
      Seasonal hunting or fishing lodge
      Theater (outdoor)
      Welding shop
   (D)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the AG Agricultural
District:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. All lots hereafter created in this District shall
contain an area of not less than one acre.
      (2)   Dimensions. All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of 150 feet and a minimum depth of 200 feet. Curve and cul-de-sac lot width
shall be measured as chord distance at the building setback line.
      (3)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 40 feet.
         (b)   The minimum width of each side yard for the principal building
shall not be less than 25 feet.
         (c)   The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal building
shall not be less than 50 feet.
   (E)   Lot coverage. The buildings on a lot, including accessory buildings,
may not exceed in coverage 30% of the total lot area.
   (F)   Off-street parking. The provisions of §§
153.090 -
153.093 concerning off-street parking shall apply.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 153.025 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The R-1 District is established to provide areas for
single-family residential development.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the “R-1”
District, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature.
All uses shall be subject to the property development standards in §§
153.025(D) and
153.079.
      Dwelling, single-family, two-family, or multi-family
      Home occupation
      Municipal or government building
      Public park or recreational facilities
      Libraries and museums
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted by special use
permit as provided for in §
153.107:
      Boarding or lodging house
      Church
      Country club or golf course
      Kindergarten or day nursery (other than as a part of a school providing
other grades)
      Nursing homes or orphanages
   (D)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the R-l Single-Family
Residential District:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. All lots hereafter created in this district shall
contain an area of not less than 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot dimensions. All lots shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and
a minimum depth of 100 feet. Curve and cul-de-sac lot width shall be measured
as chord distance at the building setback line.
      (3)   Building height. No building or structure, located in this
District, may be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than 30
feet.
      (4)   No single-family dwelling may be changed or erected so that its
ground floor area is less than 900 square feet. Mobile homes shall have a
minimum of 720 square feet.
      (5)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided.
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   A minimum width of each side yard shall not be less than ten
feet.
         (c)   A minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal building shall
not be less than 20 feet.
      (6)   Lot coverage. The buildings on a lot, including accessory
buildings, may not exceed in coverage 35% of the total lot area.
      (7)   Off-street parking; obstructions. The provisions of §§
153.090 through
153.093 concerning off-street parking and the provisions of §
153.093(B) and (C) concerning obstructions shall apply.
      (8)   Number of mobile homes; restrictions. Not more than one mobile home
per platted lot. The restrictions of §
153.040 governing minimum square footage, age of mobile home, minimum lot area,
set-back requirements, and other property development standards set forth in §
153.040(C), shall apply.
      (9)   Fences. A fence can be erected to the property line.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 620, passed 6-25-01)
§ 153.026 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The R-2 District is established to provide areas for
single-family, two-family, and medium density multi-family residences.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
2 District, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature.
All uses shall be subject to the Property Development Standards in §§
153.026(D) and
153.079:
      Dwelling, one-family
      Dwelling, two-family
      Dwelling, multiple-family
      Municipal or government buildings
      No mobile homes permitted
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted by special use
permit as provided in §
153.107:
      Church
      Home Occupation
   (D)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the R-2 Single-Family
Residential District:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. All lots hereafter created in this district shall
contain an area of not less than 11,250 square feet.
      (2)   Lot dimensions. All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum
width of 75 feet and depth of 150 feet.
      (3)   Mobile homes. Mobile homes are not permitted.
      (4)   Building height. No building or structure, located in this
District, may be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than 30
feet.
      (5)   Minimum ground floor area. No single-family dwelling may be changed
or erected so that its ground floor area is less than 1500 square feet.
      (6)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   The minimum width of each side yard shall not be less than 20
feet.
         (c)   The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal building
shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage. The building on a lot, including accessory buildings,
may not exceed in coverage 35% of the total lot area.
      (8)   Off-street parking; obstructions. The provisions of §§
153.090 -
153.093 concerning off-street parking and the provisions of §
153.093(B) concerning obstruction shall apply.
      (9)   Fences. A fence can be erected to the property line.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
MOBILE HOME DISTRICT OR PARK
§ 153.040 MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICT OR PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The MH District is established to provide areas for
mobile homes and mobile home parks.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the MH
District, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature.
All uses shall be subject to the Property Development Standards in §§
153.051(C) and
153.079.
      Accessory uses and buildings
      Home occupation
      Mobile home
      Mobile home park
   (C)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the MH District. However,
the standards of the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1
et seq.) shall supersede these standards if the standards included in the Act
are more stringent. To the extent the Act pertains to matters not set forth,
they are adopted and incorporated by reference.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. Minimum lot area shall be 50 feet minimum width.
      (2)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided.
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 10 feet.
         (b)   The minimum width of each side yard for the principal building
shall not be less than 10 feet.
         (c)   The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal building
shall not be less than 10 feet.
      (3)   Off-street parking. There shall be two concrete off-street parking
spaces provided for each mobile home stand.
      (4)   Obstructions. The provisions of §
153.093(B) concerning obstructions shall apply.
      (5)   Mobile homes. Before any mobile home is moved into or within the
jurisdictional limits of this chapter, the mobile home shall be inspected and
approved by the Chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals, or the Chairman's
designated agent. The owner shall pay a fee of $25 for the mobile home
inspection. Additionally, the owner of the mobile home must provide written
proof that an electrical inspection has been conducted by a licensed
electrician, and the mobile home is found to satisfy all applicable electrical
code requirements. The electrician's inspection and approval shall be at the
owner's sole cost. Any mobile home moved within the jurisdictional limits of
this chapter shall contain a minimum of 980 square feet of living area. Any
mobile home that is in place within or up to one-half mile outside of the
corporate limits as of June 25, 2001, must comply with these property
development standards before it can be relocated within those same boundaries.
      (6)   Fences. A fence can be erected to the property line.
      (7)   Abandoned mobile homes. The provision of the Illinois Abandoned
Mobile Home Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 117, §§ 1 et seq.) are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 620, passed 6-25-01; Am. Ord. 716, passed
8-25-08)
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 153.050 C-1 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The C-1 District is established to provide areas for a
general range of retail and service shopping needs.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the C-
1 District, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature.
All uses shall be subject to the Property Development Standards in §§
153.065(D) and
153.079.
      Apparel store
      Automobile service station
      Bakery, retail
      Bank
      Barber shop
      Beauty shop
      Business or professional office
      Clinic
      Dairy retail only (no processing)
      Delicatessen
      Dressmaking shop
      Drug store
      Dry cleaning establishment
      Electric appliance, service and sales
      Flower shop
      Funeral home
      Garden shop
      Gift shop
      Greenhouse
      Hardware store
      Jewelry store
      Laundry agency
      Meat market
      Millinery shop
      Motel
      Municipal or government building
      Pet shop
      Postal station
      Public library or museum
      Public park or recreational area
      Radio - R. V. service and sales
      Record shop
      Reducing salon
      Restaurant
      Restaurant, drive-in
      Self-service laundry and dry cleaning
      Shoe repair shop
      Supermarket
      Tailor and pressing shop
      Variety store
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted by special use
permit in the C-1 District, as provided for in §
153.107, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature:
      Apartment
      All uses shall be subject to the Property Development Standards in §§
153.065(D) and
153.079
      Assembly halls for use by non-profit organizations
      Church
      Kindergarten or day nursery (other than part of a school providing other
grades)
   (D)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the C-1 Local Business
District.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. No minimum lot area requirements.
      (2)   Lot dimensions. All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum
width of 50 feet. Curve and cul-de-sac lot width shall be measured as chord
distance at the building setback line.
      (3)   Building height. No building or structure, located in this
district, may be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than 35
feet.
      (4)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than ten feet.
         (b)   A minimum width of each side yard for the principal building
shall not be less than ten feet; and
         (c)   A minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal building shall
not be less than ten feet.
   (E)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted in
specific situations in accordance with the procedures outlined in §
153.050, as appropriate.
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 866, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 877, passed
9-23-19)
§ 153.051 C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The C-2 District is established to provide areas for
retail trade that are associated with the city's Central Business District.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the C-
2 District, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature.
All uses shall be subject to the Property Development Standards in §§
153.051(D) and
153.079:
      All uses permitted in the “C-1” District
      Assembly halls for non-profit organizations
      Automobile sales
      Billiard room
      Boarding or lodging house
      Charitable institutions
      Department store
      Dressmaking shop
      Flower shop
      Hotel or motel (excluding apartments)
      Municipal or government buildings
      Newsdealer
      Night club
      Nursing home
      Office supplies
      Photograph studio
      Printing shop and newspaper
      Railway or motor bus station
      Senior citizens center
      Studio business (art, interior decorating, music, etc.)
      Tavern
      Theater, indoor
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted by special use
permit as provided for in §
153.107:
      Apartment
      Locker, cold storage for individual use
   (D)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the C-2 Central Business
District:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. No minimum lot area requirement.
      (2)   Lot dimensions. No minimum lot dimension requirements.
      (3)   Building height. No building or structure, located in this District
may be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than 40 feet.
      (4)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
         (a)   No minimum front yard requirements.
         (b)   No minimum side yards requirements.
         (c)   No minimum rear yard requirements.
      (5)   Off-street parking. The provisions of §§ 153.90 -
153.093 concerning off-street parking shall apply.
   (E)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted in
specific situations in accordance with the procedures outlined in §
153.051, as appropriate.
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
      Adult-use cannabis infuser organization
      Adult-use cannabis processing organization
      Adult-use cannabis transporting organization
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 866, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 877, passed
9-23-19)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
153.065 I-1 INDUSTRY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment. The I-1 District is established to provide areas for
light industrial and restricted retail trades.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the I-
1 District, plus other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature. All
uses shall be subject to the Property Development Standards in §§
153.065(D) and
153.079:
      Advertising structures (billboards)
      Automobile repair
      Automobile service center
      Bank
      Boat sales, service, storage and rental
      Contractor's storage yard
      Industrial park industry, light and general
      Kennel
      Lumber yard
      Manufacturing and open storage
      Mobile home or trailer sales area
      Municipal or government building
      Police or fire station
      Restaurant
      Truck freight terminal
      Truck service center
      Warehouse and storage of grain, seed, and dry fertilizer storage
facilities, including          grain storage and drying
   (C)   Special uses.
      (1)   The following uses may be permitted by special use permit in the I-
1 District, as provided for in §
153.107, plus such other uses as the Board may deem to be similar in nature:
         Apartment within an industrial building
         Asphalt and concrete plant
         Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquified fertilizer, storage and
distribution
          (commercial)
         Auction sales yard (including livestock)
         Automobile laundry
         Bottled gas, storage and distribution
         Bulk storage of petroleum products
      (2)   All uses shall be subject to the property development standards in
§ 153.065(D).
   (D)   Property development standards. The following property development
standards shall apply to all land and structures in the I-1 Light Industrial
District:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. No minimum lot area requirements.
      (2)   Lot dimensions. All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum
width of 50 feet. Curve and cul-de-sac lot width shall be measured as chord
distance at the building setback line.
      (3)   Building height. No building or structure, located in this
District, may be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than 40
feet.
      (4)   Yards. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless a 20 foot
front yard is provided.
      (5)   Fences. The Zoning Board shall reserve the right to require
installation of an opaque barrier for aesthetic reasons, around all or part of
a property as a condition of its intended development.
      (6)   Off-street parking. The provisions of §§
153.090 through
153.093 shall apply.
   (E)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted in
specific situations in accordance with the procedures outlined in §
153.065, as appropriate.
      Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
      Adult-use cannabis infuser organization
      Adult-use cannabis processing organization
      Adult-use cannabis transporting organization
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 877, passed 9-23-19; Am. Ord. 932, passed
10-24-22)
GENERAL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 153.075 HOME OCCUPATION.
   In all districts permitting residential dwellings, home occupations shall be
permitted, as long as the home occupation is incidental and secondary to the
permitted residential use of the lot.
   (A)   Permitted home occupations include:
      (1)   Domestic crafts such as seamstress, sewing, tailoring, weaving,
washing and ironing, carpentry work, barber shops and beauty shops, repair of
small household appliances, and offices used predominantly for personal, as
opposed to business use.
      (2)   Music and dance instruction.
      (3)   Private tutoring.
   (B)   A home occupation shall not be interpreted to include:
      (1)   Automobile repair and tune-up.
      (2)   Offices, clinics, welding shops, tourist homes, animal hospitals,
kennels, television repair shops.
   (C)   Home occupations requirements:
      (1)   Such one occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit used as the residence.
      (2)   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur.
      (3)   The primary use of the dwelling unit shall remain for the
residential purposes and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a
resident in the dwelling unit.
      (4)   The home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to the
permitted residential use of the lot.
      (5)   No structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to a business or commercial appearance
shall be permitted.
      (6)   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation.
      (7)   The use shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic beyond
that normal to the district in which it is located.
      (8)   No more than one room in the dwelling units shall be employed for
the home occupation, at grade or above grade; or three hundred square feet of
basement floor area below grade.
      (9)   No provision for off-street parking or loading facilities, other
than the requirements of the residential district in which the use is located,
shall be permitted; and no part of a minimum required yard shall be used for
such off-street parking or loading purposes; no additional driveways to serve
such home occupations, shall be permitted.
      (10) No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted other than one attached, non-illuminated sign, not exceeding
one square foot in area.
      (11) No stock, in trade or commodities, other than those prepared,
produced or created on the premises by the operator of the home occupation
shall be kept or sold on the premises.
      (12) No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference,
(visually or audibly), outside of the dwelling.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.076 TEMPORARY NON-RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY.
   Mobile homes, trailers, or vans may be utilized in all districts as
contractor's offices, watchman's shelters, or tool or equipment storage, only
on the site and only during the period of construction of improvement projects.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.077 SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Requirements. Signs and outdoor advertising structures may be erected
in the zoning districts where such use is permitted, subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be located so as to
endanger the health and safety of operators or motor vehicles on the public
streets.
      (2)   Signs or advertising structures may be lighted in a reasonable
manner that makes the structure visible, but does not create substantial glare.
No sign may be erected that flashes, uses sound or other mechanical devises, or
that uses unusual lighting or other means of illumination.
   (B)   Public right-of-way. No sign or advertising structure shall project
into the public right-of-way or other adjacent property.
   (C)   Permitted signs.
      (1)   In residential zoning districts non-illuminated nameplates for home
occupations are permitted, provided the nameplate does not exceed one square
foot in area, and is used for indicating the name and address of the occupant
or home occupation.
      (2)   In commercial and industrial zoning districts, signs are permitted
for the purpose of identifying or describing the nature or type of use located
on the premises, with the sign subject to the following:
         (a)   Signs may be free-standing, or attached to the building.
         (b)   No sign shall be erected or located to have a total height
greater than 20 feet above the level of the street upon which the sign faces,
nor shall the signable area of any such sign exceed 100 square feet; unless the
sign is erected on a pedestal and does not present an obstruction.
   (D)   Off-premises advertising. Outdoor advertising structures are permitted
in certain zoning districts for the purpose of advertising businesses and uses
not located on the premises with the structure, subject to the following:
      (1)   Outdoor advertising structures shall be free-standing and not
attached to or painted
on any part of a building or premises.
      (2)   No outdoor advertising structure shall be erected to have a total
height greater than 20 feet above the level of the street upon which the
structure existed, and shall not exceed 150 square feet.
      (3)   Double frontage signable areas are permitted.
      (4)   Only one outdoor advertising structure shall be erected on any
individual lot or parcel.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.078 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings may be permitted in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall be permitted only on side and rear yards,
and shall be located no closer than ten feet to the side or rear lot lines.
   (C)   No accessory building shall exceed a total height of 12 feet.
   (D)   An accessory building shall not be constructed before the principal
building is constructed.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.079 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All lots hereafter created shall contain frontage along a public
street, and as further specified in the individual zoning districts.
   (B)   On corner lots, reversed corner lots, and double frontage lots, two
front yard setback distances shall be required as specified in the individual
zoning districts.
   (C)   No structure or use of land subject to the requirements of this
chapter shall violate any other law of the city.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.080 NONCONFORMING BUILDING AND USE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, the lawful use of a building
or premises may be continued although such use does not conform to all the
provisions thereof, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout a building provided no
structural alterations are made therein.
   (C)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use of the
same or greater restrictions, provided no structural changes are made in the
building. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be changed except in accordance with the requirements of
the district.
   (D)   Any building, or building and land combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use of a building is existing, shall not hereafter be expanded or
altered in any manner except in accordance with the requirements of the
district in which it is located.
   (E)   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall hereafter
conform to the uses permitted in the district in which it is located.
   (F)   When a building containing a nonconforming use is damaged by fire,
explosion, or other acts of God, to the extent of more than 50% of its assessed
value, it shall not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of
the district within which it is located.
   (G)   These provisions apply in the same manner to uses which become a
nonconforming use due to a letter amendment to these regulations.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.081 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   Special use permits may be granted for the erection of telecommunications
towers within each of the zoning districts provided for in this chapter,
subject to the satisfaction of the requirements of §
153.107.
(Ord. 603A, passed 5-22-00)
§ 153.082 TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   A special use permit may be granted in AG, R-1, or MH Districts for
recreational vehicles owned by applicants engaged in construction projects in
and around the city during the period of construction. Such recreational
vehicles must have their own toilet and a system for sewage disposal.
Additionally, they shall be connected to, and shall use municipal sewer and
water, available electricity and/or municipal gas service. Permits for
recreational vehicles used for temporary living quarters shall not exceed a
period of six months. they may be renewed every six months for a total term of
up to three years. The cost of each temporary living quarters permit shall be
$75, and each renewal shall be subject to payment of an additional $75 fee.
(Ord. 641, passed 9-23-02)
§ 153.083 ADULT-USE CANNABIS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the
City of Grayville. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided
in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be
amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the
regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
   (B)   Conditional use. Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities,
as defined herein, requiring approval of a conditional use in the respective
districts in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with §
153.065 (Conditional Uses) and division (C) (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility
Components) as provided herein.
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis facility components. In determining compliance with
§
153.065 (Conditional Uses), the following components of the adult-use cannabis
facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the properties:
      (1)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      (2)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      (3)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      (4)   Anticipated parking demand and available private parking supply.
      (5)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      (6)   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      (7)   Proposed signage plan.
      (8)   Compliance with all requirements provided in division (D) (Adult-
Use Cannabis Craft Grower); division (E) (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation
Center); division (F) (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization); division
(G) (Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization); division (H) (Adult-Use Cannabis
Processing Organization); or division (I) (Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting
Organization), as applicable.
      (9)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
§
153.065 (Conditional Uses).
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower. In those zoning districts in which an
adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
craft grower shall be classified as "manufacturing uses" per §
153.092 (Schedule of Parking Requirements): provided, however, that the city
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
153.065 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with §
153.092 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center. In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Cultivation Centers shall be classified as "manufacturing uses" per §
153.092 (Schedule of Parking Requirements), provided, however, that the city
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
153.065 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with §
153.092 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization. In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet
of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      (3)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as authorized in
division (F)(5) below in the same tenant space.
      (4)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      (5)   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by division (J) (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect adequate
provisions to respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site
consumption permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked
following notice and hearing as provided the City of Grayville Municipal Code.
      (6)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "retail and service uses" per §
153.092 (Schedule of Parking Requirements) of the City of Grayville Code of
Ordinances provided, however, that the city may require that additional parking
be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §
153.065 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
      (7)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with §
153.092 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
   (G)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization. In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet
of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      (3)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an
infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "manufacturing uses" per §
153.092 (Schedule of Parking Requirements), provided, however, that the city
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
153.065 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with §
153.092 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
   (H)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization. In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet
of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      (3)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "manufacturing uses" per §
153.092 (Schedule of Parking Requirements), provided, however, that the city
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
153.065 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with §
153.092 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
   (I)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use transporting organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet
of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      (3)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      (4)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "warehouses and storage buildings" per §
153.092 (Schedule of Parking Requirements), provided, however, that the city
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
153.065 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
      (5)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with §
153.092 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
   (J)   Additional requirements. Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the conditional use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   (K)   Co-location of cannabis business establishments. The city may approve
the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization with an adult-
use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use cannabis infuser organization,
or both, subject to the provisions of the Act and the conditional use criteria
within the City of Grayville Municipal Code of Ordinances. In a co-location,
the floor space requirements of divisions (F)(3) and (G)(3) shall not apply,
but the co-located establishments shall be the sole use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 877, passed 9-23-19)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 153.090 PURPOSE.
   The following regulations are established to lessen congestion in the public
streets and to set standards for the off-street parking of vehicles, taking
into consideration the particular type of use.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.091 EXISTING USES.
   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure erected prior to the
effective date of this chapter is hereafter changed substantially to a new use,
the off-street parking requirements shall be met, or in the event the floor
area, seating capacity, number of dwelling units, or other factors affecting
the parking requirements is changed.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.092 SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   For the following uses, accessory off-street parking shall be provided as
required hereafter.
Category of Use Use Spaces Required
Category of Use         Use                         Spaces Required
                        One-family dwellings and    Two parking spaces shall be
                        two- family dwellings       provided for each dwelling
                                                    unit
                                                    Two parking spaces shall be
                        Multiple-family dwellings   provided for every single
                                                    dwelling unit
Residential                                         One parking space shall be
Uses                    Motel, inns and auto courts provided for each guest or
                                                    sleeping room or suite
                                                    One parking space for each
                        Hotels                      dwelling unit or lodging
                                                    room
                        Lodging, rooming and        One parking space shall be
                        boarding houses             provided for each two
                                                    lodging rooms
                                                    One parking space shall be
                        Retail stores and banks     provided for each 200
                                                    square feet of floor area
                                                    One parking space shall be
                        Automobile service stations provided for each two
                                                    employees
                        Establishments dispensing   One parking space shall be
                        food or beverages for       provided for every four
Retail and service uses consumption on the premises seats
                        Furniture and appliance     One parking space shall be
                        stores, household equipment provided for each 600
                        or furniture repair shops   square feet of floor space
                        Motor vehicle sales and     One parking space shall be
                        machinery sales             provided for each 300
                                                    square feet of floor space
                        Theaters (indoors)          One parking space shall be
                                                    provided for each five
                        Business, professional and  One parking space shall be
Offices                 governmental                provided for each 200
                                                    square feet of floor area
Medical or              Medical or dental clinics   Five parking spaces shall
dental clinics                                      be provided for each doctor
Wholesale               Not including warehouses    One parking space shall be
establishments          and storage buildings other provided for each 600
                       than accessory)             square feet of floor area
                        Any establishments engaged
                        in production, processing,  One parking space shall be
Manufacturing           cleaning, servicing,        provided for each two
uses                    testing or repair of        employees
                        materials, goods or
                        products
Warehouses              Warehouses and storage      One parking space shall be
and storage             buildings                   provided for each two
buildings                                           employees
                                                    One parking space shall be
                                                    provided for each three
                                                    auditorium seats. Adequate
                                                    space shall also be
                        Church, school, and college provided for buses used in
                        and other institutional     connection with the
                        auditoriums                 activities of the
                                                    institution and all loading
                                                    and unloading of passengers
                                                    shall take place upon the
                                                    premises.
                                                    One parking space shall be
                                                    provided for each three
                                                    employees and one parking
                        Colleges, universities and  space shall be provided for
                        business, professional and  each four students based on
                        trade schools               the minimum number of
                                                    students attending classes
                                                    on the premises at any one
                                                    time during any 24-hour
Community                                           period
service uses                                        One parking space shall be
                                                    provided for each two
                                                    hospital beds, plus one
                        Hospitals                   parking space for each two
                                                    employees (other than staff
                                                    doctors), plus one parking
                                                    space for each doctor
                                                    assigned to the staff
                                                    One parking space shall be
                        Libraries, art galleries,   provided for each 1,000
                        and museums - public        square feet of gross floor
                                                    area
                        Municipal or privately      One parking space shall be
                        owned recreation buildings  provided for each 1,000
                        or community centers        square feet of gross floor
                                                    area
                        Public utility and public   One parking space shall be
                        service uses                provided for each three
                                                    employees
                        Schools - nursery,          One parking space shall be
                        elementary and high         provided for each employee
                        Stadiums, arenas,
                        auditoriums, (other than
                        church, college or          Parking spaces equal in
Places of               institutional schools),     number to 25% of the
assembly                convention halls, dance     capacity in persons shall
                        halls, skating rinks and    be provided
                        other similar places of
                        assembly
                        Fraternities, sororities    One parking space shall be
                        and dormitories             provided for each five
                                                    active members
                        Private clubs and lodges    Parking spaces equal in
                        (without sleeping           number to 10% of the
                        facilities for guests)      capacity in persons shall
                                                    be provided
Miscellaneous                                       One parking space shall be
uses                                                provided for each four
                                                    beds, plus one parking
                        Rest homes and nursing      space for each two
                        homes                       employees, (other than
                                                    staff doctors), plus one
                                                    parking space for each
                                                    doctor assigned to the
                                                    staff
 
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.093 OTHER REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Driveways shall be constructed to allow vehicles to enter
thoroughfares forward.
   (B)   No object shall act as an obstruction to the clear view of drivers on
a public street.
   (C)   Mobile homes shall be underpinned with factory underpinning or
comparable material.
   (D)   Gallagher Oil, LP shall be allowed to drill up to five oil and gas
wells within the city limits, at sites described in an application filed with
the Grayville Board of Zoning Appeals, subject to the terms and conditions of
an agreement entered into by Gallagher Oil, LP and the City of Grayville on
August 10, 1999 as subsequently amended. Gallagher Oil, LP is further granted
authority to drill up to four oil and gas wells outside of, but within 600 feet
of the corporate limits of the City of Grayville, at sites described in
applications filed with the Grayville Board of Zoning Appeals, and also subject
to the terms and conditions of the agreement entered into by Gallagher Oil, LP
and the City of Grayville on August 10, 1999, as amended. This authority is
limited only to such described wells, and shall in no way constitute a
modification or repeal of the general prohibition against mineral extraction
within the city limits of Grayville, or within 600 feet of the corporate
boundary.
   (E)   Campbell Energy LLC shall be allowed to drill an oil and gas well,
located within the corporate limits of the city, described as 330 feet north
and 330 feet west of the Southwest corner of the Northeast Quarter (NE/4) of
Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian,
Grayville, White County, at the site described in the application filed with
the Grayville Board of Zoning Appeals. This authority is limited only to such
described well, and shall in no way constitute a modification or repeal of the
general prohibition against mineral extraction within the city limits of
Grayville, or within 600 feet of the corporate boundary.
   (F)   Fischer and Fischer Oil, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company,
shall be allowed to drill up to two oil and gas wells within 600 feet of the
corporate limits of the City of Grayville, at the sites described in the
application filed with the Grayville Board of Zoning Appeals, said wells being
located in part of the Southeast Quarter (SE/4) of Section 20, Township 3
South, Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian, White County, Illinois.
This authority is limited only to such described wells, and shall in no way
constitute a modification or repeal of the general prohibition against mineral
extraction within the city limits of Grayville, or within 600 feet of the
corporate boundary.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 596, passed 8-23-99; Am. Ord. 601, passed
2-14-99; Am. Ord. 607, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 610, passed 9-11-00; Am. Ord.
621, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 823, passed 6-6-16; Am. Ord. 870, passed 4-8-19)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.105 ADMINISTRATION OFFICER; ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   The Zoning Chairman shall be the Mayor of the City of Grayville, and
shall be in charge of the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Commissioners of the Grayville City Council shall act as the
Zoning Board, being responsible for enforcing the Zoning Ordinance and
presiding over any public hearings as required under the provisions herein.
   (C)   All meetings of the Zoning Board shall be called by the Mayor/
Chairman, and as often as practicable, shall take place on the same dates as
regular meetings of the Grayville City Council.
      (1)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
that fact. Findings of fact and decision shall be prepared for each case
reviewed by the Zoning Board.
      (2)   At all public hearings before the Board, the Board shall require
that all testimony by witnesses be given under oath.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 826, passed 8-22-16; Am. Ord. 871-A, passed
6-10-19)
§ 153.106 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board may permit variations in specific cases where
practical difficulties or particular hardships occur. The Board shall do so
only where the granting of such a variation would be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter. The Board may grant variations in
the following instances only, and in no others:
      (1)   To permit any yard, court, setback or line to be of less dimension
than required by the applicable regulations;
      (2)   To permit any structure to exceed the height limitations imposed by
the applicable regulations;
      (3)   To permit a reduction in the number of street parking spaces in
connection with a particular use;
      (4)   To permit a reduction in the minimum ground floor area requirement
for single-family residences.
   (B)   No variations shall be granted by the Zoning Board except after a
public hearing is conducted as provided in §
153.109.
   (C)   The Zoning Board shall prepare a record of the findings of fact and
decision in each case from the evidence presented at the public hearing. The
Board shall use the following standards when considering the practical
difficulties or particular hardship:
      (1)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
      (2)   That the land, structure or building involved cannot reasonably be
developed or used in accordance with the requirements of the district in which
it is located;
      (3)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter;
      (4)   That the special condition and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      (5)   That granting the variation requested will not give the applicant
of the property in question privileges not generally held by other property
owners or occupants in the same vicinity and district;
      (6)   That the granting of the variation will be in harmony with the
purpose and intent of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.107 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Certain types of uses may be permitted in the particular Zoning
Districts when special consideration has been given to the site itself and the
characteristics of surrounding property. The purpose of this section is to
allow the Zoning Board the authority to impose certain conditional standards
when taking into consideration the characteristics of the surrounding property.
   (B)   No special use permits shall be granted by the Zoning Board except
after a public hearing is conducted as provided in §
153.109.
   (C)   The Zoning Board shall prepare a record of the findings of fact and
decision in each case from the evidence presented at the public hearing. The
Board shall use the following standards when considering an application for a
special use permit:
      (1)   That the proposed use is consistent with the city's land use plan;
      (2)   That the proposed use will not be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, morals, comforts, or general welfare;
      (3)   That the proposed use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the uses already
permitted, or substantially reduce the value of neighboring property;
      (4)   That the proposed use will not impede orderly growth, development
and improvement of surrounding properties for those uses permitted in the
zoning district;
      (5)   That the proposed use is provided, or will be provided, with
adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and necessary facilities.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.108 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in the text of this chapter and the Zoning
District Map may be amended upon application by any person or party, or by the
Zoning Board and City Council. The chapter shall only be amended when the
proposed change promotes the public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general
welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   No zoning text amendment or Zoning District Map amendment shall be
considered except after a public hearing has been conducted by the Zoning Board
as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   The Zoning Board shall prepare a record of the findings of fact and
decision in each case from the evidence presented at the public hearing. The
Board shall use the following standards when considering amendments to the
chapter:
      (1)   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by the
existing zoning;
      (2)   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by the
proposed zoning;
      (3)   The existing land uses of nearby property;
      (4)   Existing zoning of nearby property;
      (5)   Whether the petitioned zoning change is in the best interest of the
general public or is it solely for the benefit of the petitioner.
   (D)   After the public hearing, the City Council shall approve or deny the
proposed amendment. All decisions of the City Council are final, and are
subject to review by the courts of the state.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86; Am. Ord. 871-A, passed 6-10-19)
§ 153.109 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All applications for a variation, special use permit and zoning text
or zoning district map amendment shall be filed with the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall forward the applications to the Zoning Board for processing.
   (B)   No variations, special use permit, or zoning text or Zoning District
Map amendment shall be processed except after a public hearing before the
Zoning Board. Public notice stating the time and place of the public hearing
shall be published at least once, not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before
the public hearing, in one or more newspapers published in the city, or in one
or more newspapers of general circulation, if a newspaper is not published in
the city.
   (C)   The costs or charges of the publication notice shall be paid by the
applicant.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.110 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Within the zoning boundaries of the city, no structure or improvement,
home occupation, or use of land may be altered, changed, placed, erected, or
located on platted or unplatted land, unless the structure, improvement or use,
and its location, conform with this chapter, and an improvement location permit
for such structure, improvement or use has been issued by the Zoning Board.
   (B)   The Zoning Board shall issue an improvement location permit upon
written application, when the proposed structure, improvement or use and its
location conform in all respects with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or corporation which makes application for an improvement
location permit, shall at the time of making such application, furnish the
Zoning Board with a plot plan, drawn to scale as required by the Zoning Board,
and show the following items:
      (1)   The location and size of all buildings or structures already on the
site and those to be erected;
      (2)   The width of all entrances to and exits from the site;
      (3)   All adjacent streets and roadways; and
      (4)   Any additional information requested by the Zoning Board.
   (D)   When an application for an improvement location permit is filed with
the Zoning Board, it shall be accompanied with a fee set in accordance with the
schedule of fees adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
§ 153.111 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees indicating the
charges for an improvement location permit, variations, special use permits,
zoning text or Zoning Map amendments, and appeals. The schedule of fees may be
amended by City Council.
(Ord. 443, passed 5-19-86)
   (B)   The following schedule of fees shall be established, pertaining to the
city and surrounding one-half mile of the city. All fees shall be paid to the
City Clerk at the time of the filing of the petition, or at the time
application is made for an improvement location permit. Additionally, all
special use permits and variances granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be recorded in the county in which the subject real estate is located. The cost
of recording shall be the responsibility of the applicant. It will be collected
from the applicant, prior to recording by the city.
      (1)   All city improvement location permits ("building permits") shall be
$25.
      (2)   All applications for variances and special uses to the zoning
chapter shall be $50.
      (3)   All applications to amend the text of this chapter shall be $50.
      (4)   All applications for amendments to the Zoning Map of the city shall
be $100.
      (5)   All map and text changes to the Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map of
the city will be done on an annual basis.
      (6)   The Mayor and Commissioners acting in their capacity as Zoning
Board Chairperson and Zoning Board Members shall be paid the sum of $___ for
each meeting they attend to hear applications or petitions under this chapter
when such meetings are held on dates other than those of the regular meetings
of the Grayville City Council.
(Ord. 440, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 608, passed 8-14-00; Am. Ord. 716, passed
8-25-08; Am. Ord. 871-A, passed 6-10-19)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS, LEASES AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   DEDICATIONS AND EASEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   VACATED STREETS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
Res. 10-17- Annexation of Lots 1 to 10, inclusive of Phillips First Addition to the city.
125  49
155A 4-3-54 Annexation of certain territory in White County, including Lots 11 to 29,
            inclusive, and the south 40 feet of Lot 30.
161A 1-17-  Annexation of Taylor's Second Addition.
     55
170  4-9-56 Annexation of certain territory in White County, beginning at the Northeast
            corner of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20.
175  10-15- Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County of the Southeast Quarter of
     56     the Southwest Quarter of Section 17.
196  4-10-  Annexation of certain territory in White County of the Southwest Quarter of
     59     Section 21.
     9-18-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, commencing at the point of
214  61     intersection of Cemetery Street with the southwest corner of Mayo's Addition
            to the city.
     4-12-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County being Lots 16 and 17; Lots
291  71     18 and 19 except the east 60 feet thereof; Lots 57, 58, 59, 60; 139, 140, 141,
            142, 143, and 144.
300  2-7-72 Annexation of Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, and 26.
     7-10-  Annexation of certain property in White County, beginning at a point which is
310  73     South 89°10' East 924 feet of the Southwest corner of the Southwest corner of
            Section 20.
311  7-10-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, including all parts of
     73     Section 8, 9, and 17.
314  8-6-73 Annexation of the east 60 feet of Lots 18 and 19.
328  12-16- Annexation of certain real estate of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
     74     Quarter of Section 16.
329  12-16- Annexation of certain real estate of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
     74     Quarter of Section 16.
331  2-3-75 Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County of the Southwest Quarter of
            the Southeast Quarter of Section 8.
332  2-17-  Annexation of certain real estate in Edwards County, of the Southeast Quarter
     75     of the Southwest Quarter of Section 17.
     9-19-  Annexation of certain real estate in White County, beginning at a point in the
365  77     east line of Webb Ferry Road and being 1020.53 feet North of the south line of
            the Southwest Quarter of Section 21.
370  2-6-78 Annexation of certain real estate of the community unit school district No. 1.
378  2-19-  Annexation of territories in the Northeast Fourth of the Southwest Quarter of
     79     Section 29 and part of the West Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29.
386  5-7-79 Annexation of certain real estate of Donald W. and Martina M. Butler, of
            Edwards County in Section 17.
427  9-10-  Annexation of certain territory in White County, lying in Section 21 and 29 of
     84     Township 3.
439  10-7-  Annexation of certain territory of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast
     85     Quarter and the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 17.
488  11-5-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, of the Southeast corner of
     90     the Southwest Quarter of Section 17.
     11-5-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, beginning at a point 1126
489  90     feet east of the Southwest corner of the South half of the Northwest Quarter
            of Section 9.
495A 4-22-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, of the Southwest Quarter of
     91     the Southeast Quarter of Section 8.
499  6-3-91 Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, beginning at the Northeast
            corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 17.
     5-22-  Annexation of territory located in White County, described as a part of the
605  00     Southeast Quarter of Section 20, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second
            Principal Meridian.
623  10-22- Annexation of certain territory in White County, beginning at the Southwest
     01     corner of the Southwest Quarter of Section 21.
     12-26- Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as a part of the
627  01     Southwest Quarter of Section 21, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second
            Principal Meridian.
            Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as the East Half of
636  5-28-  the Northeast Quarter, and all of the Northeast Quarter lying west of the
     02     right-of-way of the C.C.C. & St. L. Railroad, all in Section 29, Township 3
            South, Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian.
646  2-24-  Annexation of certain territory located in White County.
     03
     2-24-  Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as a part of the
647  03     Northeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second
            Principal Meridian.
     2-24-  Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as a point 25 1/
648  03     2 rods west of the northeast corner of Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14
            West of the Second Principal Meridian.
     8-11-  Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as a part of the
656  03     Northeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second
            Principal Meridian.
     8-11-  Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as a point 25 1/
657  03     2 rods west of the Northeast corner of Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14
            West of the Second Principal Meridian.
     4-14-  Annexation of certain territory in Edwards County, described as a part of the
704  08     southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 3 South,
            Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian.
            Annexation of certain territory in White County, described as a part of Lot 2
961  9-9-24 of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the
            Second Principal Meridian.
           
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS, LEASES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
—  9-30-  Agreement granting permission to construct and maintain sewer lines under the
     46     tracks of the Illinois Central Railroad Company.
184  8-30-  Lease agreement between city and Grayville Park District.
     57
215  4-9-62 Approval of application for a preliminary loan for low-rent public housing.
220  1-21-  Engineering service contract for the natural gas system improvements.
     63
257  11-20- Approving and adopting sanitary landfill contract.
     67
281  6-1-70 Agreement between the city and the White County Housing Authority to provide
            low-rent housing.
308  12-18- Agreement providing for the participation in the organization of the municipal
     72     gas operators emergency association district No. 1.
356  3-7-77 Agreement to adopt intergovernmental agreement to provide a sanitary landfill.
376  10-16- Agreement to adopt intergovernmental purchasing program with the state.
     78
381  4-16-  Amending the annexation of the territory involved in Ord. 378, passed 2-19-
     79     79.
392  1-7-80 Agreement approving HUD-UDAG Grant.
—  9-10-  Agreement regulating annexation procedures between the city and real estate
     84     owners.
477  1-15-  Agreement to form a municipal gas agency with other municipalities within the
     90     state.
Res. 3-25-  Economic development agreement with the operator of the Grayville off-track
494  91     betting parlor and to amend the city budget for such receipts and
            disbursements.
516- 9-21-  Admission of Pittsfield to the Illinois Municipal Gas Agency.
A    92
     4-28-  Approving membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management
603  00     Association and authorizing the execution of an Intergovernmental Cooperation
            Contract.
633  5-20-  Installment contract to pay for the acquisition of certain real estate and
     02     certain water and sewer improvements.
Res. 4-14-  Authorizing the execution of a mutual aid agreement for law enforcement
652  03     purposes.
653  6-23-  Approving the gas utilities alliance intergovernmental cooperation agreement.
     03
—  3-13-  Mutual access and maintenance agreement, concerning 2.43 acres, more or less,
     06     conveyed to Rides Mass Transit District, with easements.
676  9-11-  Admission of Thebes, Illinois; Perryville, Missouri; and Corning, Iowa to the
     06     Illinois Municipal Gas Agency.
677  9-11-  Changing the name of Illinois Municipal Gas Agency to Interstate Municipal Gas
     06     Agency.
690  8-13-  Admission of the City of Creal Springs, Illinois and the City of Livermore,
     07     Kentucky to the Interstate Municipal Gas Agency.
703  4-7-08 Approving a redeveloper’s agreement between the city and Gary and Jean Ellen
            Bisch, developers.
728  5-11-  Approving redevelopment agreement between the city and Westmore Equities, LLC.
     09
733  10-12- Admission of the City of Plattsburg, Missouri and the City of Fulton, Missouri
     09     to the Interstate Municipal Gas Agency.
747  3-14-  Approving a right-of- way license agreement with Delta Communications, LLC.
     11
750  7-11-  Approving the withdrawal of the City of Livermore, McLean County, Kentucky as
     11     a member of the Interstate Municipal Gas Agency.
754  11-15- Admission of the City of Vienna, Illinois and the City of Lamoni, Iowa to the
     11     Interstate Municipal Gas Agency.
772  6-10-  Approving developer’s agreement with Greg and Lori Bisch.
     13
773  6-10-  Approving developer’s agreement with Dust & Son, L.P.
     13
780  12-23- Approving developer’s agreement with Voyles Properties, LLC.
     13
783  5-12-  Approving real property lease agreement with Western Oilfields Supply Company
     14     for former prison site.
787  6-23-  Approving developer’s agreement with Road Ranger, LLC.
     14
789  8-25-  Approving real estate exchange agreement with Road Ranger, LLC.
     14
790  8-25-  Approving developer’s agreement with Hammell Properties, LLC.
     14
797  1-26-  Approving developer’s agreement with Douglas P. Cox.
     15
798  2-9-15 Approving real estate exchange agreement with Sullivan/TSK, LLC.
799  4-27-  Approving developer’s agreement with Michael and Moriah Pipher.
     15
803  6-29-  Approving developer’s agreement with JCJRG Properties, LLC.
     15
804  11-9-  Approving developer’s agreement with Jared Alka and Jeremy F. Hocking.
     15
805  11-9-  Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum Contribution Agreement.
     15
806  11-23- Approving developer’s agreement with Tupper’s Guns & Firearm Repair, LLC.
     15
807  11-23- Approving developer’s agreement (laundromat) with Douglas P. Cox.
     15
832  11-14- Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum Contribution Agreement.
     16
846  8-14-  Approving execution of intergovernmental cooperation contract with members of
     17     the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association.
859  6-11-  Establishing cable/video service provider fees in the city and White and
     18     Edwards Counties.
863  11-13- Approving the assignment of developer's agreement between the city, White and
     18     Edwards Counties, and Hammell Properties LLC, developer to ZP2 Realty, LLC.
864  11-13- Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum Contribution
     18     Agreement.
     7-26-  Approving oil and gas lease agreement between the city, White and Edwards
875  19     Counties, a municipal corporation, as lessor, and Fischer and Fischer Oil,
            LLC, as lessee.
     12-14- Approving execution of intergovernmental agreement and sublease between the
904  20     City of Grayville, White and Edwards Counties, Illinois and Little Wabash Fire
            Protection District.
     1-11-  Approving membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management
907  21     Association and authorizing the execution of an Intergovernmental Cooperation
            Contract.
929  9-19-  Approving developer’s agreement between the City of Grayville, White and
     22     Edwards Counties, Illinois and V3 Illinois Vending, LLC.
           
 
 
TABLE III: DEDICATIONS AND EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
319      11-5-73     Granting Easement for access to Lots 66, 67, and 68 of
                     Florence (River) addition.
452      6-8-87      Dedicating a portion of Water Street.
—      11-13-00    Granting easement over and across Lots 25, 26, 27, and 28
                     of the River Addition to Gallagher Drilling, Inc.
                     Grant by Cheryl Ward of easement to city for use of
                     property located at the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
—      5-10-01     Quarter, and the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
                     Quarter, and the North 20 acres of the West Half of the
                     Southwest Quarter, all in Section 29, Township 3 South,
                     Range 14 West.
                     Grant of easement to the city for use of property located
—      2-22-02     at Lot 6 of Block 2 of Martin’s Second Addition to the
                     city.
                     Grant by SJD Farms, Inc. of easement to city for use of
—      3-15-02     property located in Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14
                     West.
                    
 
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
401      2-17-81     Franchise agreement with Grayville Cablevision
                     Corporation.
420      3-5-84      Franchise agreement with General Telephone Company of
                     Illinois.
                     Transfer of Grayville Cablevision Corporation's franchise
436      7-1-85      to Cable Equities or another corporation controlled by
                     Rifkin and Narragansett.
465      9-19-88     Amending franchise agreement with Grayville Cablevision
                     Corporation.
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Rifkin Acquisition
611      9-25-00     Partners, L.L.P. for the maintenance and operation of a
                     cable system.
732      7-13-09     Granting consent and approval of local franchising
                     authority for extension of CATV franchise.
                    
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
146   8-18-52  Sale of Lot 10 of Mayo's Addition, Cowling survey.
185   9-3-57   Sale of part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 21.
570   2-24-97  Sale of property commonly known as 117 N. Main St.
571   4-7-97   Sale of property located at 117 N. Main St.
613   12-11-00 Sale of property commonly known as South Court Street and North
               Court Street.
615   2-26-01  Sale of property located along South Court Street.
624   10-22-01 Sale of property commonly known as the corner of South Middle
               Street and E. North Street.
Res.           Conveyance of certain real estate to the Illinois Department of
635   5-13-02  Corrections for construction of a maximum security prison
               facility and work camp.
665   6-28-04  Authorizing the sale of certain municipal real estate.
670   7-11-05  Authorizing the sale of certain municipal real estate.
671   8-22-05  Approving the sale of certain municipal real estate.
               Authorizing the sale of the right- of-way formerly owned by
678   10-23-06 Norfolk Southern Railway Company, extending south and west from
               Walnut Street.
678B  2-12-07  Approving the sale of certain municipal real estate.
               Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as the
682   2-12-07  corner of S. Middle Street and E. North Street and 110-112 S.
               Middle Street.
               Approving the sale of real estate described as Lot 1 in Block
               10 in the original plat of the town, except a strip 15 feet
691   9-24-07  wide off of the entire south end of Lot 1, generally located at
               the corner of S. Middle Street and E. North Street, and 110-112
               S. Middle Street.
692   10-8-07  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 201 S.
               Water Street.
698   12-10-07 Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 201 S.
               Water Street.
               Authorizing the sale of real estate described as Lot 7 in Block
700   2-11-08  7 of the original town, commonly known as the corner of South
               Main Street and East South Street.
               Approving the sale of real estate described as Lot 7 in Block 7
701   3-10-08  of the original town, generally located at the corner of South
               Main Street and East South Street.
               Authorizing the sale of real estate described as Lots 69, 70
710   5-27-08  and 71 in Block C of Rivers Addition to the city, generally
               located at South Water Street.
               Approving the sale of real estate described as Lots 69, 70 and
713   6-23-08  71 in Block C of Rivers Addition to the city, generally located
               at South Water Street.
               Authorizing the sale of certain municipal real estate,
               described as 52 acres, more or less, located in the southwest
719   10-27-08 quarter of the northwest quarter and the northwest quarter of
               the southwest quarter in Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14
               West of the Second Principal Meridian.
721   12-1-08  Approving the sale of real estate generally located at County
               Road 2000E.
               Authorizing the sale of real estate described as 34.48 acres,
724   4-13-09  more or less, located in the northwest quarter of Section 29,
               Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second Principal
               Meridian.
               Approving the sale of real estate described as a part of the
729   6-8-09   northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 14
               West of the Second Principal Meridian, containing 39.24 acres.
737   1-25-10  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 314 S.
               Court Street.
739   3-15-10  Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 314 S.
               Court Street.
               Authorizing the sale of certain municipal real estate described
               as: Tract 1, a part of the south half of the southwest quarter
               of Section 21, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second
740   5-21-10  Principal Meridian containing 0.70 acres; Tract II, a part of
               the south half of the southwest quarter of Section 21, Township
               3 South, Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian
               containing 1.22 acres.
               Approving the sale of certain municipal real estate described
               as: Tract 1, a part of the south half of the southwest quarter
               of Section 21, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the Second
743   7-12-10  Principal Meridian containing 0.70 acres; Tract II, a part of
               the south half of the southwest quarter of Section 21, Township
               3 South, Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian
               containing 1.22 acres.
               Authorizing the sale of real estate described as Lot 5 of the
752   8-22-11  Plat of Grayville Industrial Park Phase 2, being a part of Lot
               2 of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 3 South,
               Range 14 West of the Second Principal Meridian.
753   9-26-11  Approving the sale of real estate generally located in the
               Grayville Industrial Park.
757   3-26-12  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 110 W.
               Mill Street.
772   6-10-13  Approving the conveyance of real estate in Grayville Industrial
               Park to Greg and Lori Bisch.
773   6-10-13  Approving the conveyance of real estate in Grayville Industrial
               Park to Dust & Son, L.P.
777   8-12-13  Authorizing the sale of real estate (Lot 4 in Block 5 of Frost
               Acres) on Terrace Road.
778   9-23-13  Approving the sale of real estate (Lot 4 in Block 5 of Frost
               Acres) on Terrace Road.
780   12-23-13 Approving the conveyance of real estate (former prison
               construction project) to Voyles Properties, LLC.
787   6-23-14  Approving the conveyance of real estate known as I-64 Plaza
               Phase I and Phase II to Road Ranger, LLC.
789   8-25-14  Approving the conveyance of real estate (former prison site) to
               Road Ranger, LLC.
790   8-25-14  Approving the conveyance of real estate (former prison
               construction project) to Hammell Properties, LLC.
793   10-27-14 Authorizing the sale of real estate (Lots 7 and 8 in Block 16
               of the Second or Western Addition to Robert and Karen VanMatre.
794   12-8-14  Authorizing the sale of real estate (Lots 7 and 8 in Block 16)
               to Robert and Karen VanMatre.
797   1-26-15  Approving the conveyance of real estate located in Grayville
               Industrial Park to Douglas P. Cox.
798   2-9-15   Approving the conveyance of real estate located in Grayville
               Industrial Park to Sullivan/TSK, LLC.
799   4-27-15  Approving the conveyance of real estate located in Grayville
               Industrial Park to Michael and Moriah Pipher.
803   6-29-15  Approving the conveyance of real estate known as I-65 Plaza
               Phase I and Phase II to JCJRG Properties, LLC.
804   11-9-15  Approving the conveyance of real estate known as I-64 Plaza
               Phase I and Phase II to Jared Alka and Jeremy F. Hocking.
806   11-23-15 Approving the conveyance of real estate located in the
               Grayville Industrial Park to Tupper’s Guns & Firearms Repair.
807   11-23-15 Approving the conveyance of real estate located in Grayville
               Industrial Park to Douglas P. Cox.
               Approving the conveyance of real estate now known as I-64 Plaza
827   9-12-16  Phase I and Phase II to Taylor Ross Lynn d/b/a Driving Range
               Plus.
833   11-28-16 Approving the sale of property generally located at 116 N.
               Middle Street to Randy Funkhouser and Josh Bell.
               Approving the conveyance of real estate in the south half of
838   3-13-17  Lot 1, all of Lots 2 through 11, and the vacated portion of
               Koehler Street and Helm Street adjoining said lots, to Marilyn
               Kay Mason.
               Approving the conveyance of real estate described as Lots 13,
840   4-10-17  14, 15 and 16, Phase II, I-64 Plaza, to Jones Realty
               Corporation.
               Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 110 W.
852-A 2-26-18  Mill Street, 308 W. Spring Street, 222 E. North Street, 202
               Gray Street, and two separate portions of right- of-way in the
               former Southern Railway Company.
               Approving the sale of real estate commonly known as 308 W.
               Spring Street, 222 E. North Street, 202 Gray Street, and that
857   4-23-18  strip of right- of-way for the main track of the former
               Southern Railway Company to Ronald Lee Cowles, Andrea R. Ford,
               and Kirsch & Kleinschmidt respectively.
               Approving the sale of: Tract 1, part of the southeast quarter
               of Section 20, part of the west half of Section 21, all in
869   4-22-19  Township 3 South, Range 14 West, containing 3.24 acres; Tract
               2, part of the southeast quarter of Section 20 and part of the
               southwest quarter of Section 21, all in Township 3 South, Range
               14 West, 6.28 acres.
872A  6-24-19  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 142 N.
               Fifth Street.
               Approving conveyance of real estate in Lot 4 of the Grayville
884   4-13-20  Industrial Park, Phase 2 of a part of Lot 2 of the southeast
               quarter of Section 20, Township 3 South, Range 14 West to
               Michel and Moriah Pipher.
889   6-8-20   Approving the sale of real estate commonly known as 142 N.
               Fifth Street to Kevin Moore.
891   6-22-20  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 413 N.
               State Road.
893   8-10-20  Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 413 N.
               State Road.
895   9-14-20  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 110 E.
               South Street.
899   11-2-20  Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 110 E.
               South Street.
900   11-9-20  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 407 N.
               Middle Street.
905   12-28-20 Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 407 N.
               Middle Street to Rick L. Conner and Teresa J. Conner.
935   1-9-23   Approving the conveyance of real estate generally located at
               Sublot 2 of Lot 4 in the I-64 plaza to Federico Lopez.
937   4-24-23  Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 315 E.
               South Street, 201 W. Commerce Street, and 513 W. North Street.
               Approving the sale of real estate generally located at Sublot 1
938   4-24-23  of Lot 6 in I-64 Plaza to Creative Arc Design, LLC and Dana
               Schroeder d/b/a Southern Gray.
941   7-10-23  Approving the sale of real estate commonly known as 315 E.
               South Street and 513 W. North Street.
946   12-27-23 Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 122 S.
               Court Street.
952   5-30-24  Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 201 W.
               Commerce Street.
956   7-1-24   Authorizing the sale of real estate commonly known as 122 S.
               Third Street.
957   7-8-24   Approving the sale of real estate generally located at 122 S.
               Court Street.
958   8-15-24  Approving the sale of real estate commonly known as 135 Koehler
               Street.
960   9-9-24   A pproving the sale of real estate generally located at 122 S.
               Third Street.
              
 
 
TABLE VI: VACATED STREETS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
66   8-4-41 Vacating a portion of an alley intersecting block “B” of Baldwin's addition.
91   4-29-  Vacating a portion of South Street.
     46
151  2-16-  Vacating a part of Washington Street.
     53
206  5-2-60 Vacating Elizabeth (South) Street east of Water Street.
Res. 1-20-  Vacating an alley between the State Highway and Second Street.
229  64
234  7-29-  Vacating an alley beginning in the Northwest corner of Lot 1.
     64
239  8-9-65 Vacating a portion of North Middle Street.
276  10-6-  Vacating a part of Commerce Street and part of Moss Street.
     69
293  6-21-  Vacating a portion of an alley between Lots 6 and 7.
     71
301  4-10-  Vacating a portion of Court Street.
     72
319  11-5-  Vacating a portion of Hamilton Street.
     73
360  4-16-  Vacating a portion of North Middle Street.
     77
366  9-19-  Vacating a portion of Old Main Street.
     77
372  6-26-  Vacating an alley between Martin's addition and Noel's addition.
     78
411  12-20- Vacating an alley between Lots 8 and 9.
     82
444  5-5-86 Vacating a portion of Court Street.
451  6-8-87 Vacating a portion of North Street.
518  10-19- Vacating a portion of Vine Street.
     92
588  4-26-  Vacating a portion of an alley between Lots 3 and 4 in Block 16 in Martin's
     99     Addition.
604  5-22-  Vacating Silver Street from Maple Avenue to Floral Avenue in the city.
     00
618  5-29-  Vacating property commonly known as 1106 North Court Street.
     01
714  6-23-  Vacating an alley between a part of Lot 1, Block 19, the north half of Lot 2,
     08     Block 19 and Lot 3, Block 19, in the original town.
734  9-14-  Vacating a portion of a platted alley adjoining West Martin Street.
     09
738  9-14-  Vacating a portion of a platted alley adjoining West Martin Street.
     09
822  5-9-16 Vacating a portion of Hamilton Street adjoining Henshaw properties.
836  12-12- Vacating a portion of a platted alley and parts of Fair Avenue and Market
     16     Street.
839  3-27-  Vacating portions of Koehler Street and Helm Street.
     17
     5-22-  Vacating a portion of a platted alley adjoining Lots 19 and 20, Block 4, Mayo's
843  17     Addition, Cowling Survey, and part of the southeast quarter of the southwest
            quarter of Section 17, Township 3 South, Range 14 West.
844  5-22-  Vacating a portion of a platted alley adjoining Lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, Block
     17     13, Martin's Addition.
860  10-15- Vacating a portion of Silver Street, as platted, adjoining Lots 59 and 60, and
     18     Lot 144 in Illinois Heights.
867  2-25-  Vacating a platted alley adjoining Lots 21, 20 and 19, in Block 14 of Martin's
     19     Addition, and Lots 1, 2 and 3 in said Block 14 of Martin's Addition.
872  4-22-  Vacating a portion of High Street, as platted, adjoining 416 S. Water Street.
     19
            Vacating portions of First Street and Floral Street adjoining parts of Illinois
878  11-12- Heights Addition, and a part of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter,
     19     all in Section 17, Township 3 South, Range 14 West of the second principal
            meridian.
923  1-24-  Vacating a portion of Pulaski Street and an adjoining alley, commonly known as
     22     214 Washington Street, part of E. Commerce Street, and 313 Pulaski Street.
930  9-26-  Vacating a portion of Vine Street, commonly known as 709 N. Court Street.
     22
            Vacating a portion of a platted alley adjoining Lots 3 and 4 in Block 14 of
942  6-26-  Martin’s Addition, commonly known as 215 W. Plum Street; and parts of Lots 1,
     23     2, and 3 of Block 14 of Martin’s Addition, commonly known as410 North First
            Street.
           
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                                                         Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.                                    35.06
                                                                  38.20,
Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.                                    38.23,
                                                                  38.24
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 35                                             38.21
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 83                                             38.20
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.                                  38.25
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15                                           38.25
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65                                           38.39
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 - 10-40                                38.25
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10                                          38.38
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5                                           38.25
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5                                           38.25
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)                                        38.25
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)                                        38.25
Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.                                  135.02
Ch. 20, Act 1605, § 7.12                                         135.02
Ch. 20, Act 2910                                                  137.02
Ch. 30, Act 405, §§ 1 et seq.                                   52.001
Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9                                             37.51
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3                                             37.36
Ch. 42, Act 35, §§ 0.01 et seq                                  92.10
Ch. 50, Act 5, § 3.1-30-20                                       36.22
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.                                   36.21
Ch. 50, Act 710                                                   137.02
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005                                          137.02
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127                                          70.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                                           151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3.23                                          111.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-6                                        36.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30                                       31.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 4-1-1 et seq.                                 10.19
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 4-4-1 et seq.                                 Ch. 30
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-2                                           33.16
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-13                                          10.15
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.1                                         31.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.2                                         31.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.2 - 8-2.9.10                            31.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.6                                         31.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.7                                         31.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                                          37.35
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5                                          37.50
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23                                         37.53
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5                                          132.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-12-4 et seq.                               33.30
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-5                                         33.34
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12                                        151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-9                                         90.31
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                                         151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                                         151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                                         151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1                                         71.001,
                                                                  75.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5                                         114.01
Ch. 70, Act 1205, § 3-9                                          70.01
Ch. 205, Act 5, § 5g                                             135.01,
                                                                  135.02
Ch. 205, Act 205, § 7008                                         135.01,
                                                                  135.02
Ch. 205, Act 305, § 42.7                                         135.01,
                                                                  135.02
Ch. 210, Act 50, § 4.11                                          34.03
Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.                                  153.040
Ch. 210, Act 117, §§ 1 et seq.                                  153.040
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v)                                      56.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401                                         56.02
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.                                   56.16
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4                                             56.05
Ch. 225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq.                                  52.023
Ch. 225, Act 447                                                  137.02
Ch. 225, Act 460, §§ 0.01 et seq.                               74.07
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.                                   135.02
                                                                  115.02,
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.                                115.05,
                                                                  115.07
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.                                   135.02
Ch. 230, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.                                   135.02
Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.                                   135.02
Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1                                           135.02
Ch. 230, Act 40                                                   135.01,
                                                                  135.02
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 1 et seq.                                     113.11
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5                                             113.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.23                                         111.19
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.24                                         111.19
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-21                                           111.17
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215                                          71.103
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.220                                          71.103
                                                                  71.103,
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360                                          136.01,
                                                                  136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                                            71.103
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3(a)                                         136.01
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4                                            136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5                                            136.03
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6                                            136.04
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a), (d)                                    136.02,
                                                                  136.04
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(c)                                         136.07
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a), (d), (e)                               136.03
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9                                            136.05
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10                                           136.06
Ch. 425, Act 25, §§ 9 - 14                                      150.26
Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 0.01et seq.                                 92.14,
                                                                  92.99
Ch. 425, Act 35, § 2.2                                           92.13
Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 - 16.3                                 Ch. 137
Ch. 430, Act 66                                                   137.01,
                                                                  137.02
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 24                                             90.02
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.                                56.02
Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.                                  70.35
Ch. 605, Act 120, § 50                                           136.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.                                75.10,
                                                                  136.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-104                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 6, § 1-104.2                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-118.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120.7                                        70.01
                                                                  70.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-123.9                                        73.30,
                                                                  73.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131.5                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140.7                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001                                      70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3a-5                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-151                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.3                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167.5                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168                                          70.01
                                                                  70.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168.8                                        73.30,
                                                                  73.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.001                                      70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-202.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8                                        70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217                                          70.01,
                                                                  131.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d)                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609                                          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616                                          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-804.01                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203                                          76.05,
                                                                  76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213                                          76.05,
                                                                  76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101                                          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-204                                          76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303                                          79.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203                                         70.10,
                                                                  70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-204                                         79.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205                                         70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206                                         70.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301                                         70.01,
                                                                  72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302                                         70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305                                         70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306                                         70.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307                                         70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308                                         70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309                                         70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310                                         70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311                                         70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312                                         70.37
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313                                         70.38
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401                                         76.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402                                         76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403                                         76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404                                         76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409                                         76.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410                                         76.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 - 11-502                              73.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501                                         71.066,
                                                                  79.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.1                                       76.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502                                         70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503                                         76.01,
                                                                  79.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506                                         79.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601                                         71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.5                                       79.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604                                         71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605                                         71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606                                         71.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611                                         71.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701                                         71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702                                         71.041
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703                                         71.042
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704                                         71.043
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705                                         71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706                                         71.042,
                                                                  71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707                                         71.042,
                                                                  71.047
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708                                         71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709                                         71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710                                         71.096
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711                                         71.106
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801                                         71.020
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802                                         71.021
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803                                         71.022
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804                                         71.023
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805                                         71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806                                         71.025
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-901 et seq.                               73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901                                         71.060
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902                                         71.061
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903                                         71.062
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904                                         71.063
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905                                         71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906                                         71.065
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907                                         71.048,
                                                                  71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907.5                                       71.040,
                                                                  71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-908                                         71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001                                        74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002                                        74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003                                        74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1                                      74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004                                        74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1                                      74.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005                                        74.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006                                        74.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007                                        74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008                                        74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009                                        74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010                                        74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011                                        74.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201                                        71.080
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202                                        71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204                                        70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205                                        71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301                                        72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1                                      72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2                                      72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(a), (a-1), (a-2), (b), (c), (e)      72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(c), (c-1), (f)                       72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302                                        72.40
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303                                        72.10,
                                                                  72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304                                        72.01,
                                                                  72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305                                        72.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401                                        72.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402                                        71.095
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403                                        73.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1                                      73.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2                                      73.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404                                        73.21
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405                                        73.22
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406                                        71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407                                        71.098
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410                                        71.099
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411                                        71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412                                        71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1                                      71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413                                        71.103
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414                                        71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416                                        71.104
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418                                        71.105
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420                                        71.067
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425                                        71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1428                                        73.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1501- 11-1515                             73.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502                                        73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503                                        73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504                                        73.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505                                        73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1                                      73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506                                        73.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507                                        73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1                                      73.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.                               75.01,
                                                                  75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101                                         75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208                                         71.023,
                                                                  71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215                                         70.11,
                                                                  71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(b)                                      72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601                                         74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610.1                                       71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610.2                                       71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-801                                         70.01,
                                                                  71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-802                                         70.01
                                                                  70.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803                                         71.045,
                                                                  71.081
                                                                  70.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805                                         71.045,
                                                                  71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq.                               75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101                                         75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105                                         75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106                                         75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109                                         75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114                                         75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et seq.                               70.99,
                                                                  74.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-101                                        113.02
Ch. 705, Act 405                                                  132.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2                                            130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3                                            130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4                                            130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12                                           130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4                                            130.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5                                            130.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6                                            130.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7                                            130.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4                                            130.06
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20                                          134.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21                                          134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30                                          134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-2                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05                                        79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(a)(4)                                  79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3.05(b)                                     79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-305(e)                                      79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12C-60(a) - (e)                                132.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16-25                                          79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16D-2                                          135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-1                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-2                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-1                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-3                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1.1                                         79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-2                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1(a)(8), (9)                                131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.01                                        79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3(a), (b), (c) - (i)                        131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1) - (5), (8), (10), (11), (13)        137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2(a), (a-5), (b), (d) - (g), (g-6), (h), (i)137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1                                         79.02,
                                                                  137.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.3                                         79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6(a)                                        137.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1                                           79.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a), (b), (d)                              135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2                                           135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b)                                        115.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3                                           135.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a), (b)                                   135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1                                           133.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8                                           133.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9(a)                                        133.03
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4                                            79.02
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5                                            79.02
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.1                                          79.02
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 8                                            79.02
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 15.2                                         79.02
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401                                          79.02
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401.1                                        79.02
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 402                                          79.02
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-3(7)                                      131.02
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-14(b)(2)                                  131.02
Ch. 725, Act 210, § 7.06                                         137.02
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 3-14-1.5                                       137.02
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1200.5                                      131.02
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1505.8(l)                                   131.02
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)                                        38.38
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)                                        38.38
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                                            151.08
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101                                          38.38
                                                                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     30.01,
1        - -         33.01,
                     33.10 -
                     33.15
7A       5-6-29      110.02
                     110.01,
8        6-11-28     110.02,
                     110.04
—      6-2-30      110.03
—      8-4-30      110.02
66       8-4-41      T.S.O., Table VI
—      12-3-45     35.05
91       4-29-46     T.S.O., Table VI
—      6-3-46      30.02
—      9-30-46     T.S.O., Table II
143      4-7-52      94.60 -
                     94.64
146      8-18-52     T.S.O., Table V
148      8-2-52      Ch. 77, Sched. V
                     Ch. 77, Sched. I,
148      8-18-52     Ch. 77, Sched. II,
                     Ch. 77, Sched. III,
                     Ch. 78, Sched. I
151      2-16-53     T.S.O., Table VI
—      7-6-53      Ch. 77, Sched. II
155A     4-3-54      T.S.O., Table I
—      8-2-54      Ch. 78, Sched. I
—      12-6-54     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
161A     1-17-55     T.S.O., Table I
162      3-7-55      35.01
165      8-15-55     37.35,
                     37.37
170      4-9-56      T.S.O., Table I
—      9-4-56      Ch. 78, Sched. I
175      10-15-56    T.S.O., Table I
—      12-17-56    Ch. 78, Sched. I
178      1-31-57     32.01 -
                     32.10
184      8-30-57     T.S.O., Table II
185      9-3-57      T.S.O., Table V
—      1-6-58      Ch. 77, Sched. I,
                     Ch. 77, Sched. II
                     51.01 -
189      2-22-58     51.11,
                     51.20 -
                     51.23
                     51.40,
189A     9-2-58      51.43 -
                     51.46
                     51.02,
191      9-2-58      51.12,
                     51.55 -
                     51.61
                     51.02,
191A     9-15-58     51.57,
                     51.58
194      8-18-58     93.20 -
                     93.23
196      4-10-59     T.S.O., Table I
206      5-2-60      T.S.O., Table VI
213      8-7-61      37.50,
                     37.52
214      9-18-61     T.S.O., Table I
215      4-9-62      T.S.O., Table II
220      1-21-63     T.S.O., Table II
221      1-21-63     33.30 -
                     33.37
234      7-29-64     T.S.O., Table VI
239      8-9-65      T.S.O., Table VI
251      7-10-67     37.35,
                     37.37
254      7-18-67     37.50,
                     37.52
257      11-20-67    T.S.O., Table II
260      4-15-68     37.50,
                     37.52
                     51.41,
263      5-6-68      51.42,
                     51.45,
                     53.17
264      5-13-68     150.20 -
                     150.27
274      9-8-69      37.35,
                     37.37
275      9-8-69      37.50,
                     37.52
276      10-6-69     T.S.O., Table VI
281      6-1-70      T.S.O., Table II
290      12-21-70    51.04,
                     51.43
291      4-12-71     T.S.O., Table I
293      6-21-71     T.S.O., Table VI
                     112.01 -
                     112.04,
296      9-7-71      112.15 -
                     112.20,
                     112.99
300      2-7-72      T.S.O., Table I
301      4-10-72     T.S.O., Table VI
305      8-7-72      50.01 -
                     50.09
306      9-18-72     35.02
308      12-18-72    T.S.O., Table II
310      7-10-73     T.S.O., Table I
311      7-10-73     T.S.O., Table I
314      8-6-73      T.S.O., Table I
316      10-15-73    33.16
319      11-5-73     T.S.O., Table III,
                     VI
328      12-16-74    T.S.O., Table I
329      12-16-74    T.S.O., Table I
331      2-3-75      T.S.O., Table I
332      2-17-75     T.S.O., Table I
337      5-19-75     150.01 -
                     150.06
349      9-20-76     35.04
352      10-18-76    150.04
                     51.04,
355      1-27-77     51.05,
                     51.43
356      3-7-77      T.S.O., Table II
360      4-16-77     T.S.O., Table VI
                     53.01,
362      5-16-77     53.15 -
                     53.17
365      9-19-77     T.S.O., Table I
366      9-19-77     T.S.O., Table VI
367A     - -         36.01
367      10-3-77     36.15 -
                     36.18
370      2-6-78      T.S.O., Table I
372      6-26-78     T.S.O., Table VI
376      10-16-78    T.S.O., Table II
377      2-19-79     53.03
378      2-19-79     T.S.O., Table I
                     51.04,
379      4-2-79      51.05,
                     51.43
381      4-16-79     T.S.O., Table II
382      5-7-79      50.03
384      5-1-79      30.01
386      5-7-79      T.S.O., Table I
388      7-16-79     34.01 -
                     34.06
391-A    12-27-79    Ch. 78, Sched. I
391-C    12-17-79    94.45,
                     94.46
392      1-7-80      T.S.O., Table II
399      10-30-80    152.01 -
                     152.04
401      2-17-81     T.S.O., Table IV
411      12-20-82    T.S.O., Table VI
                     94.01 -
                     94.05,
412      2-21-83     94.15 -
                     94.19,
                     94.30 -
                     94.32
418      2-20-84     35.04
420      3-5-84      T.S.O., Table IV
427      9-10-84     T.S.O., Table I
—      9-10-84     T.S.O., Table II
                     93.01 -
432      5-6-85      93.04,
                     93.99
436      7-1-85      T.S.O., Table IV
439      10-7-85     T.S.O., Table I
440      1-20-86     153.111
                     153.001 -
                     153.004,
                     153.015,
                     153.025,
                     153.026,
                     153.040,
443      5-19-86     153.050,
                     153.051,
                     153.075 -
                     153.080,
                     153.090 -
                     153.093,
                     153.105 -
                     153.111
444      5-5-86      T.S.O., Table VI
451      6-8-87      T.S.O., Table VI
452      6-8-87      T.S.O., Table III
460      5-2-88      30.01
464      9-12-88     37.01
465      9-19-88     T.S.O., Table IV
477      1-15-90     T.S.O., Table II
                     37.20 -
478      4-16-90     37.26,
                     37.99
488      11-5-90     T.S.O., Table I
489      11-5-90     T.S.O., Table I
                     112.01 -
                     112.04,
492-A    12-3-90     112.15 -
                     112.20,
                     112.99
495A     4-22-91     T.S.O., Table I
499      6-3-91      T.S.O., Table I
504      10-21-91    36.30
                     91.01 -
510      6-15-92     91.04,
                     91.15,
                     91.16
512      8-6-92      35.05
                     111.01,
                     111.03,
                     111.04,
                     111.15,
                     111.16,
                     111.20,
                     111.22,
514      7-20-92     111.24,
                     111.26,
                     111.28,
                     111.44,
                     111.45,
                     111.46,
                     111.47,
                     111.49,
                     111.99
515      7-20-92     53.30,
                     53.31
516-A    9-21-92     T.S.O., Table II
517      10-5-92     35.05
518      10-19-92    T.S.O., Table VI
                     52.001 - 52.008,
                     52.020 -
                     52.027,
                     52.040 -
                     52.051,
                     52.060 -
519      1-18-93     52.068,
                     52.080 -
                     52.086,
                     52.095 -
                     52.102,
                     52.115,
                     52.116
542      4-26-93     31.02
543      6-21-93     35.05
544      7-6-93      53.02
546      4-18-94     30.01
549      7-5-94      35.05
561      6-26-95     35.05
566      5-28-96     30.01
567      6-24-96     35.05
568      10-14-96    94.32
570      2-24-97     T.S.O., Table V
571      4-7-97      T.S.O., Table V
572      5-28-97     30.01
573      6-9-97      35.05
577      4-27-98     30.01
578      6-8-98      74.071,
                     74.99
579      6-22-98     35.05
581      10-26-98    Adopting Ordinance
584      8-28-99     111.44
585      3-22-99     38.01 -
                     38.05
587      4-26-99     30.01
588      4-26-99     T.S.O., Table VI
589      5-10-99     38.20 -
                     38.24
593      7-14-99     111.20,
                     111.44
594      7-14-99     35.05
595      7-12-99     36.21
596      8-23-99     153.093
                     93.20 -
597      10-11-99    93.23,
                     93.99
598      10-25-99    Adopting Ordinance
601      2-14-00     153.093
602      4-24-00     30.01
603      4-28-00     T.S.O., Table II
603A     5-22-00     153.081
604      5-22-00     T.S.O., Table VI
605      5-22-00     T.S.O., Table I
606      7-10-00     35.05
607      8-7-00      153.093
608      8-14-00     153.111
610      9-11-00     153.093
611      9-25-00     T.S.O., Table IV
611A     11-13-00    Adopting Ordinance
—      11-13-00    T.S.O., Table III
613      12-11-00    T.S.O., Table V
614      12-26-00    37.60 -
                     37.72
615      2-26-01     T.S.O., Table V
616      3-26-01     92.01 -
                     92.05
617      4-9-01      30.01
—      5-10-01     T.S.O. III
618      5-29-01     T.S.O., Table VI
620      6-25-01     153.025,
                     153.040
621      9-10-01     153.093
623      10-22-01    T.S.O., Table I
624      10-22-01    T.S.O., Table V
625      11-13-01    153.005
627      12-26-01    T.S.O. I
—      2-22-02     T.S.O. III
628      2-28-02     Adopting Ordinance
629      2-25-02     Ch. 77, Sched. II
—      3-15-02     T.S.O. III
630      4-22-02     30.01
                     54.01,
632      5-15-02     54.02,
                     54.99
633      5-20-02     T.S.O. II
636      5-28-02     T.S.O. I
641      9-23-02     153.003,
                     153.082
646      2-24-03     T.S.O. I
647      2-24-03     T.S.O. I
648      2-24-03     T.S.O. I
649      3-10-03     Adopting Ordinance
651A     4-14-03     111.44
651B     4-28-03     30.01
652      5-27-03     Ch. 78, Sched. I
653      6-23-03     T.S.O. II
654      6-23-03     35.05
655      7-28-03     53.04
656      8-11-03     T.S.O. I
657      8-11-03     T.S.O. I
661      12-22-03    Ch. 77, Sched. II
662      1-12-04     111.20
663      3-22-04     Ch. 78, Sched. I
663      4-26-04     30.01
664      6-14-04     35.05
665      3-22-04     94.45,
                     94.46
665      6-28-04     T.S.O. V
667      4-25-05     30.01
668      5-9-05      111.44
669      7-13-05     35.05
670      7-11-05     T.S.O. V
671      8-22-05     T.S.O. V
672      11-28-05    Adopting Ordinance
—      3-13-06     T.S.O. II
674      4-24-06     30.01
676      9-11-06     T.S.O. II
677      9-11-06     T.S.O. II
678      10-23-06    T.S.O. V
678B     2-12-07     T.S.O. V
679      11-14-06    111.20
682      2-12-07     T.S.O. V
684      4-9-07      Adopting Ordinance
685      4-16-07     30.01
687      6-25-07     35.05
                     73.30,
689      8-13-07     73.31,
                     73.32
690      8-13-07     T.S.O. II
691      9-24-07     T.S.O. V
692      10-8-07     T.S.O. V
698      12-10-07    T.S.O. V
699      1-14-08     53.32
700      2-11-08     T.S.O. V
701      3-10-08     T.S.O. V
702      3-24-08     33.16
703      4-7-08      T.S.O. II
704      4-14-08     T.S.O. I
706      4-28-08     30.01
710      5-27-08     T.S.O. V
711      6-9-07      35.05
713      6-23-08     T.S.O. V
714      6-23-08     T.S.O. VI
715      8-11-08     37.02
716      8-25-08     153.040,
                     153.111
717      9-22-08     55.01 -
                     55.07
719      10-27-08    T.S.O. V
                     114.01 -
720      10-27-08    114.08,
                     114.99
721      12-1-08     T.S.O. V
724      4-13-09     T.S.O. V
725      5-11-09     36.22
726      4-13-09     30.01
727      4-27-09     Ch. 78, Sched. I
728      5-11-09     T.S.O. II
729      6-8-09      T.S.O. V
730      6-22-09     35.05
731      7-27-09     150.35
732      7-13-09     T.S.O. IV
733      10-12-09    T.S.O. II
734      9-14-09     T.S.O. VI
737      1-25-10     T.S.O. V
738      9-14-09     T.S.O. VI
739      3-15-10     T.S.O. V
740      5-21-10     T.S.O. V
741      6-14-10     35.05
742      7-10-10     30.01
743      7-12-10     T.S.O. V
744      9-13-10     95.01 -
                     95.11
                     111.01 -
                     111.04,
                     111.15 -
746      2-14-11     111.28,
                     111.40 -
                     111.52,
                     111.99
747      3-14-11     T.S.O. II
748      4-25-11     30.01
749      6-13-11     35.05
750      7-11-11     T.S.O. II
751      8-22-11     Ch. 77, Sched. II;
                     Ch. 78, Sched. I
752      8-22-11     T.S.O. V
753      9-26-11     T.S.O. V
754      11-15-11    T.S.O. II
                     151.01 -
756      11-28-11    151.13,
                     151.99
757      3-26-12     T.S.O. V
758      5-14-12     30.01
759      5-14-12     33.55 -
                     33.63
761      5-14-12     36.21
762      5-29-12     Ch. 77, Sched. II,
                     IV
763      6-11-12     35.05
                     138.01 -
764      6-25-12     138.03,
                     138.99,
                     Ch. 138, Appx.
765      8-13-12     Adopting Ordinance
766      10-8-12     73.30
769      2-11-13     Ch. 77, Sched. II
770      4-22-13     30.01
                     111.44,
771      4-22-13     111.53,
                     111.99
772      6-10-13     T.S.O. II,
                     V
773      6-10-13     T.S.O. II,
                     V
775      6-24-13     35.05
776      6-24-13     Ch. 77, Sched. II
777      8-12-13     T.S.O. V
778      9-23-13     T.S.O. V
780      12-23-13    T.S.O. II,
                     V
781      4-14-14     Ch. 78, Sched. I
782      5-12-14     30.01
783      5-12-14     T.S.O. II
784      6-23-14     35.05
785      6-9-14      111.20
                     115.01 -
786      6-23-14     115.13,
                     115.99
787      6-23-14     T.S.O. II,
                     V
789      8-25-14     T.S.O. II,
                     V
790      8-25-14     T.S.O. II,
                     V
792      9-22-14     138.99
793      10-27-14    T.S.O. V
794      12-8-14     T.S.O. V
797      1-26-15     T.S.O. II,
                     V
798      2-9-15      T.S.O. II,
                     V
799      4-27-15     T.S.O. II,
                     V
800      4-27-15     30.01
802      6-22-15     35.05
803      6-29-15     T.S.O. II,
                     V
804      11-9-15     T.S.O. II,
                     V
805      11-9-15     T.S.O. II
806      11-23-15    T.S.O. II,
                     V
807      11-23-15    T.S.O. II,
                     V
                     111.44,
812      2-8-16      111.54,
                     111.99
813      2-8-16      79.01 -
                     79.08
814      3-28-16     Ch. 77, Sched. II
815      3-28-16     Ch. 78, Sched. I
816      4-11-16     Ch. 78, Sched. I
                     53.30,
                     53.31,
819      4-25-16     53.33,
                     55.01,
                     55.04,
                     55.05
820      4-25-16     37.21
821      5-9-16      30.01
822      5-9-16      T.S.O. VI
823      6-6-16      153.093
824      6-13-16     35.05
825      6-27-16     111.19,
                     111.21
826      8-22-16     153.105
827      9-12-16     T.S.O. V
828      9-26-16     Adopting Ordinance
829      10-10-16    111.20
832      11-14-16    T.S.O. II
833      11-28-16    T.S.O. V
836      12-12-16    T.S.O. VI
837      12-12-16    35.06
838      3-13-17     T.S.O. V
839      3-27-17     T.S.O. VI
840      4-10-17     T.S.O. V
841      4-24-17     30.01
842      5-8-17      111.19
843      5-22-17     T.S.O. VI
844      5-22-17     T.S.O. VI
845      6-12-17     35.05
846      8-14-17     T.S.O. II
851      12-11-17    38.35 -
                     38.40
852      1-8-18      111.20,
                     111.44
852-A    2-26-18     T.S.O. V
                     56.01 -
853      2-26-18     56.22,
                     56.99
854      3-12-18     30.02,
                     31.01
856      4-23-18     30.01
857      4-23-18     T.S.O. V
858      6-25-18     35.05
859      6-11-18     T.S.O. II
860      10-15-18    T.S.O. VI
861      11-1-18     111.20
862      11-12-18    38.35 -
                     38.40
863      11-13-18    T.S.O. II
864      11-13-18    T.S.O. II
866      1-14-19     153.050,
                     153.051
867      2-25-19     T.S.O. VI
869      4-22-19     T.S.O. V
870      4-8-19      153.093
871      4-22-19     30.01
                     153.105,
871-A    6-10-19     153.108,
                     153.111
872      4-22-19     T.S.O. VI
872A     6-24-19     T.S.O. V
873      6-10-19     90.02,
                     90.05
874      7-8-19      38.50
875      7-26-19     T.S.O. II
876      9-9-19      37.53
                     153.003,
                     153.050,
877      9-23-19     153.051,
                     153.065 ,
                     153.083
878      11-12-19    T.S.O. VI
                     111.19 -
                     111.21,
881      11-25-19    111.44,
                     111.49,
                     111.50
882      11-25-19    73.09
883      1-13-20     37.23
884      4-13-20     T.S.O. V
885      5-11-20     Ch. 77, Sched. IV,
                     Ch. 78, Sched. I
887      5-26-20     30.01
888      5-26-20     93.03,
                     93.99
889      6-8-20      T.S.O. V
                     90.01 -
                     90.13,
                     90.25 -
890      7-13-20     90.40,
                     90.50 -
                     90.56,
                     90.99
891      6-22-20     T.S.O. V
892      8-10-20     73.31
893      8-10-20     T.S.O. V
895      9-14-20     T.S.O. V
896      10-26-20    10.15
                     114.01 -
897      11-9-20     114.08,
                     114.99
899      11-2-20     T.S.O. V
900      11-9-20     T.S.O. V
903      12-28-20    Ch. 78, Sched. I
904      12-14-20    T.S.O. II
905      12-28-20    T.S.O. V
907      1-11-21     T.S.O. II
909      2-22-21     94.30
910      3-22-21     111.17
912      - -         73.31
913      5-10-21     Ch. 77, Sched. IV,
                     Ch. 78, Sched. I
914      5-10-21     30.01
921      1-24-22     Ch. 77. Sched. II,
                     Ch. 78, Sched. I
922      3-15-22     113.01 -
                     113.13
923      1-24-22     T.S.O. VI
925      5-23-22     Ch. 78, Sched. I
927      8-8-22      90.12
929      9-19-22     T.S.O. II
930      9-26-23     T.S.O. VI
931      10-24-22    30.02,
                     31.01
932      10-24-22    153.065
935      1-9-23      T.S.O. V
935-A    3-27-23     Ch. 77, Sched. V
936      3-27-23     94.33
937      4-24-23     T.S.O. V
938      4-24-23     T.S.O. V
939      5-8-23      30.01
942      6-26-23     T.S.O. VI
                     92.10 -
943      6-26-23     92.14,
                     92.99
941      7-10-23     T.S.O. V
944      8-28-23     113.06
945      9-11-23     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
946      12-27-23    T.S.O. V
947      12-27-23    53.30,
                     53.31
949      1-8-24      30.01
950      2-26-24     111.01,
                     111.19
952      5-30-24     T.S.O. V
951      5-28-24     30.01
956      7-1-24      T.S.O. V
955      7-8-24      31.03
957      7-8-24      T.S.O. V
958      8-15-24     T.S.O. V
960      9-9-24      T.S.O. V
961      9-9-24      T.S.O. I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
—      6-3-46         31.01
125      10-17-49       T.S.O., Table I
229      1-20-64        T.S.O., Table VI
324      5-6-74         35.03
494      3-25-91        T.S.O., Table II
547      - -            152.05
580      9-14-98        36.19
582      11-9-98        36.20
590      5-10-99        33.45 -
                        33.47
592      5-24-99        152.05
635      5-13-02        T.S.O. V
652      4-14-03        T.S.O. II
052907   5-29-07        33.45 -
                        33.48
                       
 
 
